tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 34th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Tripoli MP Safija Seymenoglu, who has asked for the right to choose and be elected to the Turkish woman of December.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0002par0009	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs today is December 5th, the anniversary of the Turkish woman's right to choose and be elected. I salute you all on this day, which is an important beginning of the accession of women's rights in Turkey. Dear MPs, the woman of no nation in the world, I have worked harder than the woman of Anatolia, and I have worked as hard as the woman of Anatolia to lead my people to salvation and victory. O mighty Turkish woman, you are worthy of ascending to the heavens on your shoulders. The Turkish woman, praised by Ataturk, has been noted for her struggles in the most difficult conditions in the Battle of Salvation. In 1923, the republic's declaration entered a new era in Turkey, and it was considered that women should be considered members of the nation and have the right to citizenship as well, while the law was set for drafting in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. The most important in terms of the influence of the Ataturk influences in our society are those who have given women their rights and their freedoms. First, on April 3, 1930, the City Code was adopted in Parliament, which allowed women to participate in municipal councils, to participate in municipal councils, to run for mayoral office in the elections. On 5 December 1934, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey adopted the law that recognises women's right to choose and be elected and opened the way for the Turkish woman's representation in Parliament. For the first time in 1935, 18 women have entered parliament and have earned the right to represent at a rate of 4.6 per cent.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0003par0013	Some women still can't get in, Congressman.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0002par0014	In France in 1944, Italy in 1948, Switzerland in 1971, when women were given this right, Turkey was far behind these countries, and over the years, there was no increase. Although it has been seventy-eight years since December 5, 1934, women have not yet received representation in proportion to the population, but it is also a fact that significant distances have been extended. For the first time in the republic's history, the women's MP has achieved a significant increase by 14.9 per cent this semester, and the 550 MPs are made up of 79. As there are many factors in reaching this issue, the impact of the EC PARTY, which significantly increases the number of women in each election, is greater than the example of other parties. Another institution that some parties in Turkey and around the world have been imitating is our women's arm organization. It is the largest women's organization in the world with 3 million,250,000 female members. The agency works as a major school for women to study politics, to study politics, other than their duties. Mr. President, valued lawmakers will be an important test for all parties in the upcoming local elections, women's local executives, mayors, parliamentary members. Our women's rate in local governments is very low as it is, and we all have great tasks to improve it. Now that our women are in politics, we are in politics. It can be more demanding. The assessment of this potential will actually be a great gain for our country, and justice will be served in representation. With the contribution of the entire community, men and women, I ask for your support in the bid to increase women's participation in politics, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0004par0020	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Antalya MP Yıldıay Sapan, who asked for a comment on the privatisation process of Mediterranean Electricity Distribution Asş.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0005par0024	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book agreement regarding the privatisation process of AKEDAS. I salute you all. Dear friends, now, I'm going to tell you about AKP's tender classic. In this tender, there's evil in this tender, there's abuse in this tender, there's disrespect in this tender, there's rout, but most importantly, there's a government trying to squander the capital of its own country, its own country's savings, its values. I can't bear to say they do this on purpose. The event begins with the privatisation process of the ECEDAS, in Antalya. HE has 1.8 million subscribers. An important part of these subscribers are commercial subscribers and AKEDAS, Turkey's 5th largest power distribution company, Antalya, Isparta, Burdur, and this company is growing rapidly. This firm was asked to be privatised in 2010, and 15 companies participated in the tender. The entire company that was left to the first 3, all priced over $1 billion, and bought a company for $1 billion, 165 million, but, no matter what, it burned down its collateral and withdrew from the tender. By the way, I'd like to point out that this company owns the channel that broadcasts the Great Century. Then, naturally, the second company was called in, but he withdrew from the tender by burning his guarantee, and the third company was called in, and he, in the same way, withdrew from the tender by burning his guarantee. Then it was waited for a while and re-privatized. In a tender last month, at the same firm's tender, you'll be surprised, given $1 billion 165 million, the ECEDAS has been privatized for $546 million, which is exactly half the price. With no downgrades, no reductions, and on the contrary, every day the volume has grown, energy consumption has grown, and the customer has grown, and the AKEDAS has been privatised for half the price. The region, which is the least of its number of missing fugitives, and again, in the previous tender, the entire price of the tender is required to be paid at once; this tender is divided into four equal installments. Is that true, fellas? Now, is this called privatisation? It's called orant engineering, it's called archetype, it's called ignorance politics... it's all things that need to be cleared up, friends. Another issue that needs to be explained is the identity of the firm that received the tender. This firm, despite judicial decisions, resists giving back the Oymapınar HESEs. The owner of this firm is the Prime Minister's compatriot. You know, a while ago, the Prime Minister privatized the Sejdişehir Aluminum Factory with such a method of destruction, and he gave along Oymapınar HESFF as a bonus. Despite the prosecutorial decisions, the Prime Minister refused to take back Oymapınar HESFF, one of Turkey's largest plants. Dear friends, this privatisation is against the people, the subscribers, and Antalya. Energy policy cannot be sustained for profit purposes, for profit transfer to the private sector. Electricity, one of our basic needs, must be provided with public security. It's one of the most basic tasks of the state. Therefore, I call upon you from here: Return from this error at once, and desist from pursuing the AKEDAS. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0006par0032	Thank you. On behalf of the government, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yildiz will respond to non-responsive speech.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0007par0035	Mr. President, dear friends, I hereby salute you all. The Mediterranean Electrication Dispersal Corporation, as you know, went through a process that our friend was talking about. I'd like to reminisce about the model here. We continue this privatisation calendar by 2036, with the right to operate, distribution and retail sales license, without any sale of assets. Of course, the values here, the values given in the previous tender, the current bids will be reconsidered. Where are they going to be evaluated? Our President of the Privatisation Administration presented to the Competition Foundation, and he said: "I, with these shares, have done this firm -- name, belief, everything in this portfolio -- with the understanding of transparency, and I offer you the results. Of course the Competition Agency will assess it within itself, and then they will be presented to the Privatisation Supreme Council again. As you know, in the previous tender, for one reason or another, about $30 million of collateral letters were registered, and they were compared. Of course, these tenders are being held live in front of television. Another firm, Company A, can come and say, "I'm giving you higher." There's no reason for that, my friends. The value of a commodity is the value of a sale. Now, about that, we don't know what our Privatisation Supreme Council is going to decide right now, so we don't know if he's going to approve this tender or not, but to confirm certain numbers, the demand here is increasing as the day goes by. Look, in the previous tender, the total portfolio in the provinces of Antalya, Burdur and Isparta, around 5.3 billion kilowatts, has now emerged with 5 billion kilowatts. Free consumers here have increased, and the portfolio within distribution services has decreased as much as the free consumers have increased. Now, what we're saying is that the consumers here are increasing in time. The consumers here have not increased, my friends. Now, per person, per megawatt... so I'm not doing this in terms of explanation of this price, guys, I'm just doing this in terms of correcting information. I don't know what the Privatisation Supreme Council is going to decide now, but we know that in the tenders -- in 2011 -- around $220 per megawatt -- the bids are now around $103 per megawatt. Its averages are in Europe and Turkey. We can make copies of all the numbers to our friends. Now, the public price you're offering is a high price; that's a low price. There's no way to comment on it, so it doesn't make it public. The public stays within all limits given within the limits of the law and operates within that procedure. Now in 2036, the company, which bids in 2010, has three more years to run the place than the current firm. After we give it back in 2013, we don't advance it, so it's going to be in 2042. We don't say it's going to be in 2036, it's going to be in 2036. I'm saying it over and over again: not information given to explain the price, friends; just where are the places that differed from the previous tender, where are the same places, to present it. As I said, the decision, again, is for the Privatisation Supreme Council, but the price of a property is the price of purchase. And we'll all be watching that price together. I have submitted this information to your committee. Again, with respect, I salute your delegation. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE)
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0008par0043	Yes, thank you. The third word, off-the-book, belongs to Van MP Nazmi Gür.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0009par0047	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, today I took the stand to share with you some of the problems that happened in Van County. Of course, your Prime Minister, when he was disbanding his toki dwellings in Van, he was not like those billboards of the streets of Van, Edremit, Ercish, and the streets of Ercish, but surely he is now covered with black, black smoke. As we share with you all these problems that have happened in Van. Of course, in five minutes, we have no opportunity to express all of the problems of Van. But we would like to share with you what we consider to be important. Dear friends, on October 23rd, Prime Minister Van was present and distributed about 15,000 keys. It was so reflected in the public that it was as if all those who had lost their dwellings in the van, all of them who had been hit by an earthquake, had the right, and lived in their dwellings. For once, I'd like to share with you that it's not true. At the moment, a large portion of those who have a right to live in their dwellings are not living in their homes, dear friends. People are still living in container cities outside containers being transported to the Syrian border, and right now, people are fighting for their lives in the cold van, where the snow has fallen. What happened to 15,000 dwellings? Almost all 15,000 dwellings are still empty. Why is it empty? Because after these dwellings were built, the infrastructure of these dwellings, the road, the sewers, the water, heating, the electricity was left incomplete, it was not done; this year, it is not possible to grow this winter. The simplest example is water, dear friends. All 15,000 dwellings are now without water, so the water is not connected. It's just that some of our people, who have settled in housing because of necessity, are taking care of their needs with transport water and tankers. Again, dear friends, one of the most important things was education. All 343 schools, especially at the university, have been damaged, almost all of them out of education. Why? Because only 20 schools have been tried to strengthen it. The newly built schools are unable to meet the needs of the van. Thus, in the midst of great chaos, people strive to fulfill their right to study and study. Again, dear friends, especially at our university, since the beginning of the 100th Year University, have made serious progress and have become one of Turkey's most important universities in terms of the number of students, while many of the students today are sadly deprived of their homes, some communities are left in need of their homes, called illumination houses. Again, dear friends, right now two hospitals are teaching, two hospitals are providing health care. Van faces an important health problem because Van, as a district city, also provides health care for the districts of Van, not only. Of course, there's no need to mention the tradesman. The tradesman's situation is obvious. The loans given by KOSGEB and provided by the government were again given to the co-owner. The vast majority of the tradesman did not take advantage of these loans. The fate of the poor and the poor, this fate has not changed. Dear friends, one of the most important problems is that when we built the dwellings in Van Ercish, we forgot all about the villages. I'm sure none of you know how the villages are. So I think it would be very helpful for him, as soon as possible, for the members of the AKP to take a tour of the village, especially at least to see the truth with their own eyes. Dear friends, of course, these problems with the van, these problems that our people face, they continue with operations under the name ▪KCK operations. In the last operation, our city legislature chairman Semira Varlı, our PM member Hüseyin Mountain, Ercish Çelebikuk Mayor Veysel Keser and our Co-Chair Fevziye Shiran and Yakub Atash were taken into custody. A total of 14 people have been arrested for ACK operations. This must be the result of AKP's pressure policies in the region. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0010par0061	Thank you. To answer off the agenda on behalf of the government, please, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0011par0063	Mr. President, my esteemed deputies, I have made a commitment to respond to the non-responsive speech of Mr. Nazmi Gür. I salute you all, sir. Sir, first of all, let me say that there was an earthquake in Van. It really upset all of us. As a result of this earthquake on October 23, we suffered a great deal, but look, in the past, I was the director general of the SSİ in Istanbul on August 17, 1999, and at that time I was a co-ordinator in charge of infrastructure, in the case of electricity, water, sewage. Look, the government came to the Marmara earthquake only 15 or 20 days later. There wasn't even any communication. As a BFF, I've established five district managers. Yalova, Karamursel, Lakecuk, Adapazari -- then -- and five private facilities that I built in Izmit, we provided communication with relay stations. We provided all the supplies, all the food, all the drinks. But, in the Van earthquake, look, our prime minister was in Van, the same day as the ministers next to him, and on the same day all the help began to fall from Turkey. For one thing, I'd like to stress that in particular. At the same time, not only in the Van earthquake, but earlier on May 19th, an earthquake occurred, and our government immediately took action in the middle of the night. Our Prime Minister had assigned me, and we were there the night of the earthquake, at five o'clock in the morning, with all the teams, with search and rescue units, and 05 a.m. I personally distributed the hot soup at 00. So, now, really, Mr. Van MP, I was hoping you'd give a big thank-you for what happened at Van, but I'm really disappointed. For one thing, look, Van, Van has never seen such an investment. So far, TOKI has made the biggest investment, invested 3 billion 247 million TL.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0012par0068	He's trading, Mr. Secretary. TOKI trades.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0011par0069	I'd like to present to you the total investment of our government's total investment in Vanίa, of course, the Ministry of Forest and Water; Ministry of Health; Ministry of National Education; Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications; Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism; etc.; etc., the total investment of these ministries, just the central government: Dear MPs, look, pay attention to the figure, 6 billion 774 million, 846,035. It's been done so far, so it's easy to say! We have seen in the past that permanent dwellings have not been built for years, not even temporary dwellings, but by order of our Prime Minister, the TOKI has written an epic story there.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0013par0070	What epic did they write, the Ergenekon epic?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0011par0071	Our Prime Minister has gone many times -- our ministers -- I've been there at least three times. All our ministers mobilised there, and they did great work in order to heal the wounds of our brothers and sisters in Van.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0014par0072	They slept there, they got up.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0011par0073	Look, the TOKI completed 17.487 dwellings within a year as part of earthquake housing in Van. From these, 15,399 has been completed, and 11.831 has been handed over to the rightful owners. 2,148 homes are still under construction, and we'll finish them soon. Now, our deputy said: "They have no infrastructure, no water." Look, sir, I had our Minister of Energy and Natural Resources about electricity once. I asked him if there was anything missing from the electricity. Just two months ago, all the power lines were installed, there was no problem, just that the citizen had to come and subscribe to the Electric Authority. As for the water: actually distribution is the duty of the city, but the Prime Minister has instructed me. For Van, as a radical solution for Ercish, from the Shamran source, from 47 kilometers away, a massive Jesus line, two meters across, with warehouses -- right now, the drinking water line is coming, and I'd like to emphasize that in a nutshell. Now, this is how Van would have been -- there used to be a line of Jesus -- but we saw him incompetent -- we're building a new line, and I want to make it especially good news. Also, for Ercish -- for the first time here -- we're finishing the Morgedik Dam next year, as a radical solution -- but the project started there to provide drinking water for Ercish and his neighborhood, and we have no money, and when the project is finished, we'll lay the foundation for him in spring, hopefully. I mean, there's so many big investments going on, I mean, really, Van's been re-established. Our congressman friend says: "Sir, let them go and see it." When you actually go and see Van. When you actually go and see the helicopter, a whole new city is set up, a great city is set up. Everyone knows that the units from all over the world are coming in, and they say: "How did you achieve permanent housing in one year? They can't hide their surprises. They're even asking us for technical help in this matter. Of course, not just TOKI, but as the Ministry, we invested about 500 trillion euros, 500 million TL. Blackwater watering, other than that, watering the Özalp-Golegen pond, watering the Gardensaray-Altindere... we've reformed 24 streams. In particular, we continue construction of the second part of the Georgiar watering. The construction of the Morgedik Dam is moving rapidly, almost as if it were a very important dam, Morgedik. Hopefully, it's finished at 75 percent now, and we'll finish Morgedik (which is one of the biggest dams for Van) next year. I'd like to stress that in particular. Other than that, there are 27 river reforms going on. There are so many things that there really isn't enough time to tell them. But in order not to take up your time, I would like to point out that we also started a major project for ponds and watering, especially to increase the income level of the people there. In Turkey, we have decided to build 18 projects, ponds, and irrigation under 1,000 ponds per 1,000 days. Congressmans, Van MPs, I can give you the names -- 18 each -- but since my time is limited, I don't want to talk about them either. Besides, the wooding work is starting. We're still working on that. However, the Ministry of Health has really supported Van. I mean, I personally witnessed those paramedics working there, especially when his funeral was under the earthquake, when he was a martyr. Our Minister of Health has gone many times. Therefore, you have to appreciate them. The trick is to be complimented. There may be shortcomings, of course, but it's very important to appreciate the work done, and it increases people's enthusiasm and excitement. See, our Ministry of Health in Van Naha has invested 297 million TL, and has launched 40 health facilities, including one state hospital. There was talk of national education. Sir, new schools have opened there. I wonder if our deputy doesn't go and see these schools. Our Prime Minister even opened the great schools under the name of his late mother. So far, look, the Ministry of National Education has completed the construction of 3,906 classrooms; of course, a new set of units has been opened up within the University of the Hundred Years. Our D.O.T. is very supportive. Indeed, it has become much easier to reach the van in divided ways. At the same time, the supports of other institutions, our ministry and other ministries continue. In particular -- of course, there may be shortcomings -- it's said: "Sir, there is no infrastructure, there is no water. Let him say, let him say, where, let him point, we are ready to give electricity to water there. But when you talk in circles like that... where there's no electricity, where they give him an address in person, it's our greatest happiness to give him electricity, water. With these feelings, again, really, in the Van earthquake and other earthquakes -- we lost one in Syria -- I pray for God's mercy again for those who lost their lives. And may Allah bestow His grace upon the relatives of those who lost their lives in this earthquake. In addition, after this earthquake, I'd like to thank 75 million of our citizens, who, indeed, are running to help the earthquake victims, here, in your presence. That's the brotherhood. With these feelings, I salute you all, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0015par0090	The water's not tied, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0016par0091	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0017par0092	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has given me some incomplete information, and I'd like to correct it.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0015par0093	The water's unbound, Mr. Secretary, the TOKI has done it, no water...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0016par0094	Mr. Tanal, just a moment. Here you go, Mr. Gür.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0018par0096	Mr. Secretary gave me some incomplete information, and I want to correct it.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0016par0097	You don't have the right to correct the missing information, sir, but...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0018par0098	If you promise, Mr. President, two minutes...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0016par0099	Look, I'm just saying, if there's bullying, you have the right to say something.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0018par0100	He gave false information, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0016par0101	The 59th article of the Civil Code is open against your speech. The Minister informed me on behalf of the government.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0019par0102	It's because you gave false information, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0018par0103	Mr. Minister didn't say that TOKI had no trade in Van.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0016par0104	Sir?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0018par0105	He's doing business, sir. He didn't do it for his father's sake. I'd like to take the stand, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0016par0107	No, you have no right to take the stand, Mr. Gür.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0020par0108	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0016par0109	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0020par0110	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary would like to correct the orator for misinformation.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0016par0111	He has no right to be corrected, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0020par0112	Why the President?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0016par0113	Just because of the teasing...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0020par0114	Okay, he picked on me.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0016par0115	All right, here you go, two minutes, I promise. I'm talking about learning the Civil Code. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0021par0120	Dear friends, now... Mr. Secretary, let's go to Van. Let's go to Van. Let's go to everything we say together. I'm ready for that. You'll see where it's coming from. For one thing, the very low quality coal of the governorship has made the air breathless today in Van. Can you stop the governor? ▪ Do not distribute this coal. Can you say? The state distributes coal, but I assure you, there is the same air pollution today in Van. It's the same as there was air pollution in Ankara in the 80s.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0022par0123	They're still watered down, Mr. Orator. There's still no water in the TOKI homes.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0021par0124	Second of all, you don't do water for your father's benefit, Mr. Secretary, our municipality does it, and the DSI brings the water according to protocol he signed. But now, I'll tell you, I spoke to the firm yesterday. I assure you, the water, the water, the water that you speak of, the water that you boast about, is cut off; there is no water. Several contractors, TOKI contractors, your contractors, told us: "There are private tankers carrying water to Edremit Houses." Is that also a lie?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0023par0125	Mr. Gür, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0021par0126	Then, dear friends, you sold these dwellings to the Vans for $86,000. TOKI sold, he trades. You'd never get such good customers anywhere. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0023par0129	Thank you, Mr. Gür. Yeah, we're moving on. Congressmans, our 25 lawmakers have entered the system, they want a word, but the 59th Amendment is very clear, and I've already made statements. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0024par0133	Mr. President, if you'd promised me a minute, we'd have important explanations.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0023par0134	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to inform you that the head of state...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0025par0135	Mr. President, the members of the group have a request, if you know what I mean.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0023par0136	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0025par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. The Turkish woman, along with the republic, was a project for enlightenment and modernisation, named after the National Liberation War on the road to the republic. The Turkish woman was elected earlier in this process, from France and Italy, from 1946 to 71. In 1930, she had the right to choose and be elected as MP for a change in the Constitution (December 5th 1934) with the election of the Village Law, which was adopted in 1933. In the early years of the Republic, those who say "fascist era" need to look here and learn a lesson. We, the Republican People's Party Group, celebrate the 78th year of our women's right to choose and be elected. We give our regards to the High General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0026par0144	Thank you. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0027par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the National Movement Party Group, celebrate the 78th year of the Turkish woman's election and election, congratulating our women. The Turkish woman deserves the best of everything. It's a earned right. I consider the right of our women to choose and be elected by their own decisions, by their own will, by their own decisions, and by our democracy, a very important common denominator for our country, our nation. I congratulate the Turkish woman by saying again that we consider our women worthy of the best of everything. He is worthy of the best of all things. Thank you for your promise, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0028par0150	Thank you. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0029par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the AK PARTY Group, celebrate World Women's Rights Day with the right to choose and be elected to our women on December 5th. Yes, in 1934, for the first time in this Parliament, women were elected, and as of that day, we had 18 women. Even in countries such as France, Italy, the women's right to vote began after World War II. One of the key rules for being a modern state is the equality of opportunities for men and women. The way to become a democratic, modern law state is through this understanding. That understanding must be one of the common ways of all mankind. In our party's power, many laws have been passed to improve our women's situation in each area, and the work is carried out with determination. At the moment, 46 of our parliament's 79 women are members of the EC PARTY. As the EC PARTI, we are aware of our responsibilities; while we continue our efforts to improve our women's employment, reading rate, social status, interest and participation in politics, our greatest strength in these matters is our Prime Minister and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. We celebrate the Women's Rights Day of women and women of the world. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0030par0157	Thank you. Mr. Buldan...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0031par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. We as the BDP Group celebrate the 78th anniversary of women's right to choose and be elected, but unfortunately we also want to express that women have no say in the amount they deserve. Of the 2,924 mayors, only 26 are women mayors, and of the 26 ministers in the government, only one is a female minister, and of the 34,210 muhtars are only women chiefs, and of the 81 districts, only one of them are women governors, and of the 103 rectors are women presidents, and there are still only 21 percent ambassadors of the 185 ambassadors, and they are not enough women ambassadors, and we offer respect that women have more say in the decision-making mechanisms than the BDP group.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0030par0162	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0032par0163	Mr. President, don't you promise me one minute?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0030par0164	The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Members of parliament, the head of state must take an oath before taking office. I will now invite Mr. Mehmet Nihat Omaroglu, elected head of state, to the stand to swear an oath. Here you are, Mr. Omaroglu.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0033par0170	I swear on my honor and honor that I will carry out my mission in complete neutrality, honesty, justice and justice.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0030par0173	Thank you, Mr. Omaroglu. [[From the AK PARTY, the voices of Bravo (Bravo) applaud; from the CHP and BDP rows to the cover of the rows, the noise]] All right, lawmakers, the swearing-in ceremony is over, so you can go back now. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The delegation, headed by the Pakistan Senate Foreign Affairs, Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan Permanent Commission President Haji Muhammad Adeel, was eligible for a formal visit to our country between the parties of December 01-07, 2012, as guests of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The visit of the delegation to our country is presented to the information of the General Assembly, according to Article 7 (7) of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. It has been presented to your knowledge.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0034par0186	Mr. President, the audience is applauding. Students who put up banners here went to jail. Get them out of here!
tbmm-2012-12-05sit01spe0030par0187	There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm reading it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Constitution is 98th to determine the reasons for air pollution in Kars Province and to determine measures to be taken. And the 104th Grand National Assembly of Turkey. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we respectfully submit the opening of Parliamental research. [[Kars]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Mardin]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Mwah.]] Air pollution in Kars County has risen above normal values in winter months, which significantly affects life in a negative way. Especially in the city where pollution rates rise during the evening, the city center disappears into a cloud of fog at that time. Air pollution is one of the most important environmental problems in Turkey that have a negative impact on human health. The failure to prevent or reduce measures is not only causing environmental problems, but also causing various diseases that cannot be cured. Air pollution, which undermines human health, living life, and ecological balance, and causes many diseases, including respiratory diseases, has reached the level of prevention in Kars County, as in many cities. Given that there is no industrial sector in Kars, pollution is obviously due to fuel used in heating and transport. In a town where winters are long and harsh, cheap and inferior coal used to warm up is burned for almost eight months of the year. In the province where animalism has reached its end, its use of turpentine in villages has been reduced, and the village has become the cheapest of coals trying to earn a living. Kars, one of the largest cities in unemployment and poverty, uses similar low-calorie coal in the counties, including the centre. For heating purposes, low calorie and sulfur rates have significantly increased air pollution in the widespread use of high coals. The main reason for air pollution in Kars County, as in many counties, is coal, which is low-calorie and highly inferior, distributed by the governorate. This coal, which is unsupervised to enter the city and is being distributed in the same way, is clearly threatening health, and its quality is lower every year. Kars is one of the most dense cities of air pollution right now. This has also been voiced by the Kars Environment and Urbanism City Directorate, but there has been no public development in which the measures will be taken. Most areas, including the central districts of Kars, are squatters and private homes. As there is no filter use in such houses, the fuels used are not audited, the negative impact on the environment is not tested. This shows that air pollution is largely caused by the burning of poor, low-calorie coals distributed from the gas vents of stoves or furnaces. Natural gas use is extremely low. The gasoline used in motor vehicles is diesel and so on. The control of fuels is not in any way done. Air pollution has become an open threat to all citizens in the province, including elderly people, children, people in respiratory distress. Therefore, permanent measures must be taken by uncovering the causes of air pollution in Kars Province. In order to eliminate the negative effects on human health, the risks he has created so far must be identified and permanent solutions must be set in place to prevent air pollution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, the Constitution is 98th and Institution 104th in an effort to investigate the problems of tobacco agriculture and tobacco producers and to increase tobacco production and prevent the victims of producers. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose that Parliament be investigated. 03.01.2012 [[Manisa]] [[Inconceived]] [[Mughle]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Yozgat]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Erzurum]] [[Slap]] 11) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] 12) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Tripoli]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Adana]] [[Kütahya]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Sakarya]] [[Kastamon]] [[Ankara]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Antalya]] Tobacco is a very important place in our country for jobs, exports and tax revenues. In addition to the 65,000 manufacturers of tobacco farming in our country, 25,000 people work in tobacco and tobacco products. In 128 countries around the world, tobacco is produced with different quality and quality. 75% of all tobacco production is produced in China, the United States, India, Brazil, Malawi, Indonesia and Turkey. 95% of the tobacco produced in Turkey is song-type and semi-song-type tobacco. In the world, Turkey has always maintained its place in the first place, in terms of both quality and production and export in terms of the country's production-type tobacco-producing countries. TEKEL's privatisation, the removal of tobacco under the support of tobacco, the increase in tobacco prices, the delay in input prices, quotas, and a significant decrease in tobacco imports in our country over the past year due to a significant decrease in tobacco production due to the privatisation of tobacco prices, and the lack of quotas. In 2003, 405,882 tobacco manufacturers produced 183,719 hectares of 159,521 tonnes of tobacco, while in 2010 65,339 tobacco manufacturers produced 64,000 tonnes of tobacco in 81.000 hectares. In 2003, 112,430 tonnes of tobacco were exported, while 54,600 tonnes were imported. In 2010, 80,311 tonnes of tobacco were exported, while 67,389 tonnes were imported and paid $367 million. With every passing year in the world, the demand for blend cigarettes is increasing. The production of Virginia and Burley tobacco, used in the production of Blend cigarettes, is increasingly inefficient in our country. So about 90% of Virginia and Burley tobacco used in cigarette factories in our country is imported. Tobacco produced in Turkey under Law 4733 is marketed on the basis of a written contract or on the basis of an auction. However, after the law was enforced, auction centres were not created for the sale of surplus products. In Article 14 of the regulations on tobacco production, processing, domestic and foreign trade, tobacco sales centres are legal, financial, physical, qualified staff and so on. It can't be created for reasons. Due to the lack of a specific price for non-receiving tobacco at auction, non-integrated non-integrated tobacco is a non-integrated institution/figuration, more than contract products are sold far below contract prices due to an auction-based sales method based on cataclysm. Although the price of tobacco produced on the basis of contract production is specified in the law between tobacco products producers and/or representatives, contract prices are usually determined by firms who make the contract. Therefore, Law 4733 must be revised and amended the parts against the tobacco farmer, set up a separate support policy for tobacco, and contract production policies must be organised to protect the rights of tobacco farmers. Most manufacturers were unaware of the alternative product project in tobacco production, so they could not benefit from the support. The misuse of agricultural medicines in combating disease and harmfulness has a negative effect on tobacco efficiency and quality. The fact that tobacco has been excluded from the application of the basin is a major flaw. Tobacco production must be produced by domestic tobacco production. In this direction, tax practice must be restarted according to the song - style tobacco in earlier cigarette blends. In the world, especially in the United States and Canada, the ban on contributing substances is on the agenda. American Blend cigarettes are expected to be replaced by cigarettes produced from natural tobacco. Thus, with a good tobacco policy, Turkey can be the world's most important producer of tobacco and cigarettes. However, by supporting tobacco production, the government supports imports by reducing the tobacco fund cut rather than taking advantage of this conjunctive. In other countries, the removal of the tobacco Fund, the only element to protect it, aside from supporting Turkish tobacco producers, will be the end of tobacco production. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, in order to determine the dimensions of the informal economy and determine the measures needed to be taken to fight the informal economy more effectively, we propose and propose that Parliament's investigation be opened under Articles 104, 105, and Articles 104 of the Constitution. 03/01/2012 [[Manisa]] [[Inconceived]] [[İzmir]] [[Sakarya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Yozgat]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Tripoli]] [[Kastamon]] [[Kütahya]] [[Adana]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mughle]] [[Erzurum]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] 23) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] 24) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] The unregistered economy can simply be described as unregistered, unregistered or unregistered activities from the state and therefore unsupervised. According to the Offshore Economic Financial and Economic Report of the Council of Accounting Experts, covering the 2002-2009 years, there was a 39 per cent informality in the economy for VAT in 2002, and that figure falls to 29 per cent, given the rejection and extraditions. In 2009, the number of non-responsive economies after rejection and extradition was 28 per cent, while rejection and extradition were 40 per cent left out of the account. The calculation showed that the difference between the 8-year period and the VAT, which he should have done, was 104 billion liras. The unregistered economy varies according to the country's economic structure and specific properties stemming from this structure. The weight of tax burdens on employment, rapid population growth, unemployment and corrupt urbanization caused the city to become unregistered. The fact that social security consciousness is not fully established is one of the key factors in the informality. Small businesses are more likely to be off the books because they are difficult to monitor and monitor. As a result of the escalation of competitive conditions, new economic conditions based on flexible production and information increase informality. Low and stable consumers, whose revenues have been corroded due to inflation, and because of inflation, their costs are increasing, producers tend to be unregistered. The height of tax rates, the lack of tax control, the lack of criminal sanctions, and the confidence of the taxpayer against tax authority, and the perspective of the tax authority are key factors that trigger the informal economy. The economic indicators in the registered economy are different from what they really are, since the off-the-book economy has not entered official records. The fact that economic data does not reflect the truth in the national statistics has negative impact on prosperity, and since many indicators do not enter national statistics, they are giving false information about the state of the economy, and the expected results from economic and financial policies are not in effect. Tax revenues, which are the government's main source of income due to the off-the-book economy, are also causing budget deficits and creating a need for more taxes. Budget deficits are also covered by borrowing or printing money. If budget deficits are met through debt, interest rates are rising, so they increase investment costs for the private sector and reduce investments. The decline of investments increases unemployment, causing unemployed masses to work in the informal economy. Due to increased interest rates due to the repayment of budget deficits through debt, public debt costs are also increasing, so budget deficits are increasing. The printing and printing of budget deficits through the Central Bank leads to inflationist pressures. The unregistered economy is causing the tax base to wear off and out of control, which is a major disadvantage to those under record, contrary to the principle of justice and equality in taxes. Unregistered enterprises gain the advantage of unfair competition because they are not subject to additional costs covered by registered businesses. Taxes raised to increase lost revenues due to unregisteredness cause injustice to the registered population. Unregisteredness is widespread and the lack of proper measures undermines confidence between citizens and public institutions. Unregistered employment is causing an unhealthy environment in business and disrupting the functioning of the labour market, disrupting social security institutions' financial situation. The increase in unregistered activities has led to the demoralisation of society's moral values and the spread of illegal activities. One of the AKP's 2002 election promises is to reduce the size of the informal economy. Although the AKP's government programmes have also stressed that it will fight off the informal economy, it has yet to be achieved. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger, lawmakers.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit02spe0030par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 34th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Wednesday (now) 05/12/2012, I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. It has been suggested that our parliamentary research motion to be read in the General Assembly on Wednesday (January 05/12/2012) to determine the problems of women working off-the-book jobs, including women working for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, with the number 29 May 2012 and 5197, in order to eliminate the measures that threaten their economic and social rights and their safety. Ruzzar Demirel, MP of Eskişehir, is in favor of the nationalist Movement Party group proposal.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit02spe0035par0017	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, as a woman and as a member of parliament, today is probably the day that all of us can't pass the memorial, December 5th; December 5, 1934, when an equivalence for human rights was made in Turkey. In the representation of people who were competent and competent, many dear ladies such as ourselves were in these halls during the five December 1934 and over eight years of equivalence of the right to be man and woman without distinction. Before that, I know it's my duty to thank all of the chosen ladies who have been here, all of them, but before all of them, the men who have given us the opportunity to ride with us, to shoulder us, and to send us here as their own trustees, to thank everyone very much. But even if it is one day for the chosen women, what do we do for the unelected women? That's what housewives are like. What do we do for men and women who choose us and send us here to represent themselves? There's not much we can do for unelected men and women. Why am I saying this? It's not enough to make a law. As the National Movement Party, we insist: "Yes, the duty of law is to make law, but there is one other duty to life, to oversee it. None of the systems that we cannot govern are ours." More than breaking the law, when we look at how much we run it in our legislation and how much we can track it, there's no good picture for women. In order for this photo to be more beautiful, we all have to work together more in the common denominator of human beings without saying, "man-woman, young-aged," but we have to do it by following how much the laws in the name of humanity function. One example was that on March 8th, the Parliament passed a law on protecting the family, preventing violence against the women, but on the road, it was said to be better. But almost a year ago, the migration still did not improve on the road. The Istanbul Convention was signed on November 25, 2011. We're the first countries to sign. We've boasted so much that we haven't blown up a firework, but the violence is not over and it's going on again, and it's become so obvious because technology has advanced because now communication gives us a chance to hear about what's going on everywhere very quickly. Here's an example of this happened a few weeks ago in Kayseri, where a second-in-command committed suicide. If we're in charge of talking about the rights of all chosen, unelected, and protecting everyone's lives, I think we should say something about all the women in the military in civilian or uniform. Women there have to be able to exercise their legal rights while working, and they must be judged equally, fairly and independently in the investigations of their rights. I, Lieutenant Ma'am, think we'd be happy to see that the late Ma'am, Nazlıgül Ma'am, provided a more egalitarian trial for women working for the National Ministry of Defence. Yes, the women who work in the household -- in fact, what we want to talk about today as the National Movement Party -- is our parliamentary research proposal, titled "women in household affairs," but we want to talk about all women in this title. The brutal competition of unemployment, migration, globalization, especially for women who have not been able to find an equal opportunity in teaching, is much more painful, and these women are working in unsecured jobs because of the inequality of opportunity, and most of these jobs are domestic affairs. The person who employs when you hire someone in the household asks a lot of questions as an employer: " Does this woman know a job, whether she is clean or trustworthy, whether she is a thief? " There are a lot of questions, etc., but do we ever put ourselves in that working woman's place and think about ourselves? Is the house I'm going to go to safe, what kind of life is there waiting for me in the house, what kind of people in that house? Honestly, sometimes they don't even call their parents. For example, about two years ago, in the case of nine women who died in floods in the back of a car in Istanbul, in the wake of floods, their families -- given one home, by the employer -- were destined to do so, and we needed a home. They can say, "We need a house." For all women who work in homes or other places without security, knowing that opportunity inequality is the greatest reason to create equality for them, I think it's more roles for us elected women, and it's our greatest wish as the National Movement Party to create an opportunity to raise the living standards of the people who chose us, to raise their welfare, to ensure that their social security is complete. As for the women who worked in household chores: Just last year, the woman who worked in 51 households died from the railings of the windowsill, as a result of the shattering of glass, while some of them went to their death in some way. In the 21st century, in order for this number not to increase, I want to express that in our country, which is defined by the rhetoric of democracy, we are dreaming of a Turkey where everyone will receive 100 percent of the social security umbrellas. As the Nationalist Action Party Group, I hope you will all support our parliamentary inquiry proposal for the National Party Party Party's Movement Party on this day, which is referred to as the chosen ones for all non-society employees, especially for women who work in domestic affairs. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit02spe0036par0030	Thank you. International Movement Party MP Ayşe Türkmenoglu has asked for a statement against the group's proposal.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit02spe0037par0033	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group against the nationalist Movement Party's proposal. On this occasion, I salute you all. Today, you know, December 5th is the 78th anniversary of the right of women to be elected and elected in Turkey. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr. Prime Minister and our group, who encouraged all our ladies to be more active in politics, locality and the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Hopefully, we'll have a lot more women in politics in the future, so I'm thinking about it. The number of women in the public, the private sector, the economy, the political decision-making mechanisms has increased, as we come to power today, but we believe it is necessary to increase the number. Mr. President, the issues of women working at home, especially at home, are known in detail by our government regarding the parliamentary inquiry submitted by the MHP Group. In particular, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, which is a ministry for solving problems for our families and women like this one, was established during the AK PARTI administration. According to our Ministry of Family and Social Policy, legislation changes are being carried out in our country, especially in co-operation with relevant institutions and organisations, the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, in order to boost women's employment. While our country's home services sector, mostly women's workers, is growing day by day, is largely unregistered, depending on the result of the failure of employees in this sector to be part of the social security system. One of the main things about being so high off the books is that women who work in household services are kept outside the social security system because of the legislation involved. Among the fundamental laws that bring provisions on the status of employees in the home services sector are Business Law 4857, the new Turkish Law on Debts 6098, Social Insurance No. 5510, and the General Health Insurance Act 6111. One of the studies carried out in order to include women working in home services in the social security system is the provision brought in by Bags 6111 Law. Law number 6111 and Law number 74 (4447) have made arrangements to increase the employment and employment of women and young people, encourage the creation of new jobs, and reduce the unemployment risk of employees, encourage vocational and technical education, improve quality and efficiency. Under this framework, bonus incentives have been brought to those who have increased young and women's incentives and have professional qualifications, who have had vocational technical training, and who have finished the ISCU courses. Again, it has been decided that if employers choose female workers for additional employment, the employer's insurance premiums will be covered by the Unemployment Insurance Fund for up to fifty-four months. The number of women who took advantage of the encouragement brought in by Law 6111 to April 2012 is 94,119. On February 4, 2011, the new Turkish Law on Debts No. 6098, published in Official Gazette 27,836, is an important step in the definition of a service contract at home. According to this, the home service agreement was defined as the employer's agreement to see the work in his own home or elsewhere, for a fee with his or her family members. In addition, taking sides as a country for the 189 Convention on Housemaids, adopted at the 100th International ILO Study Conference, will be one of the most important steps to address the problems experienced by the workers in this sector. Again, the development of the working conditions of women working in the Home Service with the participation of representatives of our lawmakers, academics, NGOs and trade union representatives, public institutions and journalists, and the work of women working in the Home Service and the work of the Social Model Worker, Mr. Güldal Akşit, chairman of the Women's Arms of the EC, was held at the AK PARTI General Centre on October 8, 2012. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are a fact that our women have suffered in some ways in our country, but in order to address these difficulties, our government continues to look for solutions with the co-ordination of all our ministries that are relevant to the issue, creating solutions, and implementing them without delay. So while the work is going on, we do not see it as urgent at this time. Mr. President, you are aware that from December 7th to December 14, 2012, we will celebrate the week of the Order. I'd like to talk about it briefly. His Holiness, Celaladdin, has spent his entire life trying to ensure the peace and well-being of the people. Human beings are the proudest of all creations. The Holy One, who embraces people of all colors in every language, is a universal symbol of love, peace, brotherhood, tolerance. Clearly, we need love and tolerance more than ever. Wars, pressures, persecutions, violence, intolerance in many Geography continue at the final pace. More recently, what happened in Bosnia, Iraq, Libya, and still happening in Mynamar, Palestine, and Syria, the atrocities that have been carved into our memory, the massacres that continue to occur before the eyes of the world, may not be questioned in many consciences. Clearly, the greatest reason for this is not being able to reach the consciousness of human beings, no matter who they are, is because they don't know how to appreciate human beings because they are human beings, regardless of color, race, language, religion. If you don't have a mind, you don't have a heart, then you don't have one. With his word, he highlighted that a person who is loveless and insensitive and has no benefit to himself or to the community, his existence is in a form that has no contribution to humanity. Mr. President, there's no hypocrites on our way, there's always grace, there's always love, there's always love, there's always peace. As long as we walk by this logic, we will speak in a manner of speaking in a manner that is good. As long as we have an appropriate dialogue, there will be no barrier between peace and prosperity in our country and in our region, to reaching friendship and brotherhood. Again, I would like to end with a word from the Lord: "Those who speak the same language, not those who speak the same language, but those who share the same feeling, agree." And this feeling, I hope, is that we all share a common denominator, a love of humanity. I'd like to respectfully express that we disagree with the MHP group proposal.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit02spe0038par0049	Thank you. Hülya Güven, İzmir MP who has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal for the nationalist Movement Party.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit02spe0039par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, lawmakers are about to speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group for a survey motion given 5197 by the National Movement Party on the basis of measures to determine and eliminate the problems of women working off the books, especially women working at home. First, I celebrate December 5th Women's Rights Day, and the 78th year of the election and the right to be elected to us by Ataturk, as well as the 3 December World Day of the disabled, so to speak. Actually, this celebration is a bitter celebration. Because there are these days, but we're living that they've never been fulfilled, that they haven't been done, that the rights can't be given to women or the disabled. Congressmans, when we're discussing women's rights today, how much does the AKP government know and respect that women have rights as well? When working women have many problems, what has been done so far when it is said that day care needs to exist to encourage work? We, the Republican People's Party, have submitted research and question motions on these matters. Instead of answering questions, a daycare center opened in every neighborhood. News came out, a perception was created, but somehow it just couldn't be real. We have the same problem with our women who work at home. There have also been various motions. The minister's answer was very different: Women who worked indefinitely in household services may be optional. So, how are these women gonna pay for insurance? Still, there is no study carried out in Law 5510. We received the answer in the form of the Law. Then the news in the newspapers: "There is insurance for women who work in households. " How true? It's not even clear how to do it. Our off-the-book women are being daydreamed. First, the news of this matter was to be reported for ten to five days, in the form of the government themselves for fifteen days. Now, the house where he works regularly is envisioned to be insured over the day. If he works in a house four days a month, but it's organized, the landlord's gonna insure it. So, if this woman works in more than one house, how does that work? If he doesn't get insurance, he gets a phone number. The woman who works there will complain that her house, where she works, is not insured. So there's no way that's possible, there's no way that can be applied. Why not take different measures, encourage off-the-books? These women, our women, even for their children -- let alone their own -- can't get health insurance, because if these women have a slum -- on their own or on their own wife -- are immediately included in the income. You have to pay the insurance money. It's called. Let alone pay the insurance, insurance, more than that, they're being paid to get health care. The government, which has failed to provide economic and social support for our working women, completely eliminates our women who have to work but are not insured. We know a lot of women, they leave on their way to work by trusting their young children to their elders. Then, we've already read about it in the newspapers. The children were burned to death. In fact, for our women, the Republican People's Party again proposed the amendment to Article 87 of Law 5510, but was not even considered. We see how insensitive the AKP government is about this. How can we trust a government that can't prevent violence, leaving disabled people on the street? When forced, the law will be changed or the laws that are valid will be completely changed, trying to buy time. For example, on December 3rd, our Minister of Family and Social Policy announced that they would redo the Responsibility Act. First, the full application of the entity, then the completion of the shortcomings. Each year, 30,000 disabled people are hired. It's called, and now, for this year, we see that 2,000 people have been taken, and we don't know if it's true. In fact, the AKP government is the obstacle to 8.5 million disabled people. It is also the AKP government that seeks to ensure that women are not employed and locked up in homes. How many women were killed who wanted a divorce? Moreover, most of the deaths occurred in March 2012 after the adoption of the Violence Act on Women. By depriving children of education, the government, which led the girls to get married early, gives our women dreams through the media as if it solves all problems. Our mentally challenged children can't go to school because they're not serving, and they've been given the 25-year-old limit. No answer when asked. Again, we give 20,000 students scholarships, there's a project. It's called a project that has no continuity and is not known whether it is real or not. What happens when the project is over? We'll probably have a diversion until the election, and then we'll have another dream process. This will also be similar to hiring 20,000 disabled people, which will be similar to the dream of women being insured. ▪ We open an entrepreneurial course with COSGEB for women. • New agenda, these courses. So how many women who took these courses started, succeeded, continued? It's unclear. Now, after this conversation, two or three successful women will be presented in the media tomorrow, and we'll read their stories. When we visit the ministries, we see that the number of women among the decisionmakers is as low as the fingers of one hand. It's said there's a lot of women working, but somehow they're underqualified. Now, the government must find a solution to the women's problem, even past its time. He should make sure that the law doesn't stay on paper, not as an election investment. Our women's problems need to be solved in reality, not on paper, and not on paper. As long as these laws, the existing laws, are well enforced, there will be no major problem at all. Everyone will be happy with little changes in the law. I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit02spe0040par0069	Thank you. Nurdan Şanlı, Ankara MP who wants to take a stand against the nationalist Movement Party group proposal.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit02spe0041par0072	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the National Movement Party's research motion to determine the problems of women working off-the-book jobs, especially women working in domestic affairs, and to eliminate the measures necessary to regulate their economic and social rights and to eliminate those threatening their safety. And I respectfully salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, today is an important day for women. December 5th, the day our women were given the right to choose and be elected and World Women's Rights Day. I, for one, would like to speak on this occasion about women's rights. When we begin to explore women's and women's rights, I think we should consider all historical processes. According to historical findings, the social organization in the paleolithic era was in the form of men's hunting and women's assessment of hunting material for their family. The structure here is bound to the man's strength and the woman's maternal instincts. Both sociological conditions and the physical factors of men and women have always separated the social status of both sexes, but no gender should prevail in social status and hierarchy, except in the qualities and behavior that God has given to men and women of any sex. Unfortunately, in a very important part of historical processes, the male has always been superior to the female. A new era began when mankind became what we call the established way of life, when the ancient stone ages of feeding the snow and fighting the harsh conditions of nature were behind them, when men and women went into common production and began to store the products they had acquired. The maternal system, what we call the patriarchal system, should not be too wrong to connect the first nuclei of the social way of life to this period. However, aside from the patriarchal period during this period, all historical processes have passed in the form of a man's superiority over a woman. Although both systems are contrary to human nature, the main system soon purged itself. But this result did not ensure equality in the social hierarchy, but rather, it was the beginning of debates about the equality of men and women who have come up to date. It is so that after the second half of the third millennium B.C.E., when states appeared, women were left to be left to their fertile structure and motherhood, both in government and in the family. This system, which has been running for centuries, has lasted until the Age of Enlightenment, and for the first time in Europe, women's rights have been raised during this period and 18th - century thinkers have begun to defend women's freedom. Although women's rights have been discussed in the United States and in Europe for many years, the law is too late. The women's right to vote came on the agenda in the 19th century, and among the first countries to exercise these rights were the right to choose in New Zealand, the right to choose in 1918, the right to vote in Australia, the right to vote in 1902, and Norway in 1913. These rights were adopted in the United States of America in 1920, in the Soviet Union in 1917. Our country has entered a democratic position on women's rights since 1930, and has been granted the right to select and be elected to city councils in 1930, to village elders in 1933, and to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in 1934. On 1 March 1935, 18 women were elected to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Even in countries such as France, Italy, today, the women's right to vote after World War II. France gave women the right to choose and be elected in 1944, and they voted in 1945, while Italian women voted in the 1946 elections. Even in Switzerland, where we received the Civil Law, women were given the right to choose and be elected in 1971. Japan received the rights of Greece in 1952 and Belgium in 1960, while women of the white race in the South African Republic were granted the right to vote in 1930, while women of the black race were granted the right to vote in 1994. One of the key rules for being a modern state is the equality of women and men. The way to become a democratic, modern law state is through this understanding. This understanding must be one of the common ways of all mankind. In our party's power, many laws have been passed, many regulations have been passed, and we are firm in our efforts to improve our women's rights and conditions in every area, to avoid the Law on Retards, the Law on Violence Against Women, the regulations on increased employment, the increase of reading and writing rates, the increase of education opportunities. AS AK PARTY, we are aware of our responsibilities. As we continue our efforts to promote our women's employment, reading rate, social status, political interest and participation, we are receiving our greatest support from our Prime Minister and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, for the support and value he has given to women. I celebrate the Women's Rights Day of our women and women of the world with these feelings and thoughts, and the motion is given by our ministry on the necessary work, and once again, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit02spe0042par0084	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit02spe0043par0085	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit02spe0042par0086	I'm going to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0042par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 34th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the proposal back to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is enough of a decision, the proposal is not accepted. Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0044par0007	Mr. President, thank you for your promise. I'd like to make a correction on the matter. Some orator friends use the term World Women's Rights Day. December 5th is a special day for Turkey, just like November 24th is a special Teacher's Day for Turkey. UNESCO offers the world October 5th for Teacher's Day, but we celebrate on November 24th. March 14th is a special Medical Day for Turkey. On December 5th, a law imposed by the Gazi Assembly on the proposals of our Great Leader is the day when women in Turkey have the right to choose. Thus, Turkey is celebrated as Women's Rights Day, and there is no such day in the world. I felt the need to correct it in order to get it to the records. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0045par0011	Thank you. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. 05.12.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Wednesday, 5:12.2012 (Today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Constitution. On 15,11,2012, by Aydın MP Metin Baydar and 26 MPs, the Parliamentary Research Proclamation (569 rows) was given by the Turkish Parliament to investigate whether there were any problems with S-70 helicopters. lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations Wednesday (March 5:12,2012), and to be held in the same dated combination of their talks. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Metin Lütfi Baydar, Aydın MP.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0046par0026	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on the parliamentary inquiry motion to investigate whether there are any problems with fallen S-70 military helicopters. Pilot Captain Anil Barış Çetin was 31 years old and spent 475 hours fighting terrorism on his 1,425-hour flight. The pilot, First Lieutenant Ersan Yenici, left his two children to his beloved wife, to be lawful to his father's town, but I do not allow my rights to the Prime Minister and the government. As the Qur'an was being read in the tent, the wife of Lieutenant James Chinar could not know what to do to her three-month-old baby, who was still in her womb, so that nothing could happen to the memory of her martyr. Sergeant Ersoy of Tekirdağ cried out on the social networking site before he fell into the ground. We don't want to give up martyrdom! Our children left this world on the morning of November 10th, as if they didn't want to leave their ancestors alone. On the morning of November 10, 2012, we gave our 12 martyrs to this land. Sikorsky S-70 is now in military helicopters known as flying coffins among the public... 35 martyrs left behind by the four Sikorskys in the last eight months, 70 grieving parents, 35 hearts on fire, and dozens of beloved orphans, dozens of loved and lost lives. Since 1993, 87 of our soldiers have been killed and 53 of our soldiers are veterans. Even in Afghanistan, this flying coffin, called S-70, fell. Dear lawmakers, post-incident statements have made the fog screen even thicker. Mr. President, who announced the painful incident, took off to help his friends. When the Governor of Siirt said that the fall of the military helicopter was 100 per cent, the Home Secretary said it was a pilot error, while the Chief of General Staff announced that pilots were above average, according to the precedents of their flight hours. It's a new tradition by the AKP governments to explain separately without waiting for the accident report. Tell me, how many aspects of the state are there? On 23 July 2012, after our helicopter crashed in Hakkari, I asked the written motion that the year of the helicopters was built, the years of entry into the TSK inventory, the number of helicopters mentioned within the TSK, and the modernization of the helicopters every few years. The Prime Minister sent his reply on November 15th, after 17 martyrs. I'm reading the answer exactly: The production year of some of the Sikorsky helicopters in the STSK inventory is 1988-1994, and Mr. Prime Minister doesn't know how many helicopters were made in the year. The other part is between 1999 and 2012. The Prime Minister does not know the number of other departments. The entry date and production date are the same or within a year. The prime minister does not know the date of entry. Modernization is only done every 15 years or so, only the outer body. There's no mention of the mechanical evening, there's no mention of the control panel; that's what it says. Dear lawmakers were given to the American company Sikorsky before the June 12, 2011 elections, at a cost of $3.5 billion for 109 helicopters, the tender for the General Purpose Helicopter Project. Before the helicopter tender was finalized, the explanations came in succession. The information that a Turkish company would receive $2.3 billion in business volumes if the tender remained in Sikorski company was told by journalists that it would produce helicopter gear boxes, flight control systems and some spare parts. It was also said that the company mentioned during this trip was an exemplary organisation of Turkish defence and aviation industry, while the Defense Industry Undersecretary was also thanked before the tender was finalized. As part of transmission technology, they explained that the U.S. governments received their own export license. Another Turkish company signed a partnership agreement with Sikorsky. The agreement revealed that Sikorsky would benefit from the global service, support and supply chain. I find the parliamentary research on the Sikorskys and its results are more important than the production of helicopters in Ankara at a rate of 67 per cent, and the talk of $8 billion in exports, and the participation of two companies in American companies. Dear lawmakers, it raises doubts about the tender before the helicopter tender is finalised, when companies make statements as if the tender remained theirs. Following the release of the tender to Sikorsky, AgustaWestland, which was not preferred in the tender, Ugo Rossini, vice president and European President Ugo Rossini, chose an old-generation design helicopter model, rather than taking advantage of its efficient cooperation and advantages through the T129 Program. Turkey's aviation and space industry have missed a unique opportunity to turn itself into a major player in the helicopter market as a partner in the development of a new generation helicopter, according to the decision made today. Mr. President, this Parliamentary investigation will also clarify what an AKP vice president said, saying, "I will not come like Harun and become Karun." What does the vice president say on December 17, 2010? That's exactly what he says, Mr. Vice President: long before a billion-dollar tender is finalized in any democratic country, the buyer's side clearly expressed its opinion on the seller's side is described as, in the mildest sense of the word, a political scandal. Those involved in such a scandal are expected to resign immediately by the public opinion of democratic countries. Unfortunately, during the time we've been talking about this, we've seen that the government is trying to avoid the issue, and Mr. Minister is insisting on staying away from the institution of resignation. Words that implicated the former Secretary of Defense. It will be revealed by this congressional investigation of whether these allegations reflect the truth or not. According to WikiLeaks documents, after a meeting between US Defence Minister Robert Gates and Mr. Vecdi Gonul on February 16, 2010, the tender for the helicopter has been under way for two years, and Sikorsky and the Italian company have reached the final stage. The heart believes that Sikorsky has a good chance to win. The disclosure of WikiLeaks correspondence, whether there is such a thing or not, is a necessity, a necessity, after these accidents. Before the June 12th general elections, the tender was given to an American firm, which raises doubts in our people. Is there any point in this tender being given to an American company that will produce the old generation just before the general elections? As representatives of the nation, it is our duty to lift the fog over the accidents to our martyrs, to their families, and to our Mehmetchiks, who are still using Sikorsky helicopters to do their duty. Dear lawmakers, I'm not pressing any charges, but I'm expressing what's been said and written. For these reasons that I have explained, it is a duty of the nation to decide to open the House's investigation. As a result of the investigation, the helicopters and the tender process will be enlightened, and if there is abuse, the responsible will be revealed, as a matter of fact, and our nation's conscience will be relieved. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0047par0040	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has spoken against the group's proposal, Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0048par0042	Mr. President, esteemed MPs, today is the day women are given the right to choose, the right to be elected. Talks like that have been made. But apparently, a woman has the right to choose in this country, she doesn't have the right to be chosen. How? How many thousand mayors are there? You know, 17 of them are women; 3 of them are AKP, CHP, mp. 14 mayors are mayors of the BDP, one of which is a province -- the three parties are not even a quarter of BDP's -- about the right to be elected. So, I don't need to tell you, there's an election in a year, so let's see if you can beat us. We're being very clear. Of course, the CHP's motion is very important, I'm talking about it. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked that this Parliament investigate all the war, the war spending, the loss of the war, as the budget is coming up, the budget talks will begin these days. He asked to be investigated, no matter who he touched with all his subjects. For one thing, I want to make it clear that we have a clear attitude about this. I just want to say one more thing. Just the Sikorsky incident? Look at our budget, the cost of war in the budget, the purchases of weapons, the purchases of Sikorsky, the purchases of F-35 planes, the purchases of missiles with the Patriots, none of which are within the will and knowledge of the House. In a secret regulation, the Court has eliminated control on behalf of Parliament, which means the Parliament can't even control it through the Court channel. We're looking at the news that Turkey has ordered 12 orders from the American company, Sikorsky, for $389 million. Then, when you go under -- it's said that even though it's 12 million dollars, it's going to cost Turkey 25 to 30 million dollars. What's the difference? Bribery or discount? Whose pocket is it, politician's or your soldier's or your general's? So who's going to supervise this now? The partisan inspectors who just took the oath will oversee it as an ombudsman. So Turkey is watching politics and democracy in this Parliament, like a full-blown Douche movie. Now, look, three Super Cobra orders from the U.S.A. -- again, they call it the "Super Cobra" -- were ordered by Turkey. And the prime minister was angry, and he said, "Ya, we're close to the $4 billion big-ass helicopter contract. Which company will buy it, the Americans, the Italians or the French? Of course, Sikorsky and Agusta have no chance against him, and a decision will be made at the defence industry meeting in the Prime Minister's presidency. The decision is on whose side. Now, look, there's four Sikorsky accidents in eight months, numbers lost, numbers of wounded, that's in the motion, our friend just explained -- flight hours, weather, whatnot, they're technical issues. So the General Staff says we're going to investigate them. But I want to say that the opposition wants to do serious research on such serious matters, just like the explosion in Opium, except for us. Now -- we call it the war budget -- this 2013 budget will be offered. There is an interesting situation here: there are increases in the budgets of the National Ministry of Defence, the police, the gendarmes, the public security, the coast guard from 18 per cent to 26. These increases don't include these weapons purchases. So, which part of the budget is it in? I don't have that either. Now, look, there's a project here about F-35 planes, and it's said that Turkey is a partner. Here, $14 billion was billed for Turkey. It was 10 billion, and suddenly they said, "You're going to pay another 4 billion." 14 billion. Here, the software of these planes will be in the hands of the United States, not in the hands of Turkey. And that money's coming out of the budget, so we can't control it. So there will be 100 F-35 fighter planes during the AK PARTY, US software and source codes. In fact, some of these planes only have vertical launch capabilities, while Americans have vertical takeoff and landing capabilities. Now, after reading all of this, the resources of this war in this country that has been going on for 30 years, the suffering of this country, and the economic loss of 500 billion dollars by the official mouths of the AK PARTY itself. Now, the Prime Minister has been talking non-stop for two days; he's coming out, he's speaking at a group meeting, he's talking to the mayors. Every once in a while, he's out of work, and he's making a promise to the philosophers, to immunity, to silence the BDP. And sometimes he calls to the Kurdish people, and he says: "We are bringing you services, but these BDP people are in our way, blocking us." People of the Kurds, go up against them, stand by me. How will E oppose them? Take it out of the chest, give it to you, take it out. But what are you doing to the Kurdish people, Mr. Prime Minister? You're arresting 10,000 politicians, eight MPs, 35 mayors, you're putting them in jail for their thinking, speaking Kurdish. Now, you say to the Kurdish people: "Provide me. " The Kurdish people will not vote for you because you put their children in prison as terrorists. They will not support you. He asks you for the killers of Roboski, what are these armored vehicles, these planes, these operations, these bombings? You're bringing in unionists, frat members, human rights activists, all of them. Why are you doing this? One asks the opposition, the brother of man, the brother of man, the brother of man, if he will do so. Now, here I am calling for the Kurdish people and the Turkish people. People of Kurd, the Prime Minister's Kurdish problem is over. As he said, don't listen to him. There will be a day when he will say, "There will be no day, and there will be no day when there will be a threat, and there will be a day when he will be blackmailed." Then he will say, "We are the people of Saleaddin, the people of Ahmad, the people of Idrisi, the people of our common heart." No, Prime Minister, do not speak of Ahmadi Hani, Saladdin Ayyubi. After Saladdin Ayyubi had named the world as a Kurdish commander of the Muslim world, the imperialists in World War I took revenge on the Kurdish people. They divided it into five pieces, one in Iraq, one in Iran, one in Syria, one in Turkey, one in Turkey, so they took revenge. Now, the true descendants of Saladin Ayyubi, their children, seek their rights. Look, you've been saying for ten years that we're against assimilation. No, now we have a demand from the Turkish people. Stand up even if it is the Prime Minister who provokes, threatens, makes this war -- these sufferings. We're here to stop this war, not to throw each other out in this House. Politicians settle in the chest. Here, if you have the strength, we'll go to the chest, we'll settle the score. The rest of this is rhetorical. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We've been down this road a long time. We'll remind you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0049par0059	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal, Alim Izmir, Kütahya MP.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0050par0062	Mr. President, I have been promised by the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the National Movement Party Group in favour of the Parliament's motion to investigate whether there are any problems with the Sikorsky S-70 helicopters. On this occasion, I salute you all. At the beginning of my words, I give the Turkish woman the right to choose and be elected on the basis of the 78th anniversary of her right to be elected today, and she is chosen, and she wishes that all of our women in Turkish politics, once again, have a better day, wish them a more active role in the future. Ladies and gentlemen of the law have also expressed the value of speakers before me, the fact that many of our soldiers have been killed for technical reasons, such as the frequent accidents of helicopters and helicopters used in the fight against terrorism in Turkey and other areas, in particular, in order for this nation to not be more upset, forces us to re-examine this matter in the Parliament. Now, a similar motion made four days after the accident by our nationalist Movement Party Mersin MP Ali Oz and 20 of our friends, on the grounds of the Republican People's Party's Party, has been made, and it is absolutely presupposed to be thoroughly investigated as part of Parliament's investigation. When a transcript of helicopter accidents in our country in the past eight months alone was taken of a defensive helicopter crash, the last time 17 of our soldiers were killed on November 10, 2012, on the other hand, two months ago, on October 11, 2012, one of our soldiers was killed in Diyarbakir lice, seven of our soldiers were injured; four months ago, 22 July 2012, in Mountainese, five martyrs, seven wounded in the country, and on the night of March 8, 2012, on the night of which, according to the last eight months in Kâbil city of Afghanistan, we would all need to consider that 28 of our sons were martyrs, and that the next 14 soldiers would be wounded. When we look at the common consequences or common explanations of all accidents, we see statements that there have been reports of helicopters falling from technical failure or pilot failure, but we also see that there is no consideration from the government wing for any suggestions or warnings that may or may not have been dropped by the terrorist organization. In this regard, for example, in the crash in Afghanistan, after the cries of the families of 12 Turkish soldiers, on March 20, 2012, we gave the Prime Minister a written request to be answered. We said: What is the accuracy of the media reports that the falling helicopter fell due to a technical malfunction? Who has done what research on this subject? What are the causes of the malfunction, the species? For what reasons and by whom did the helicopter where the Turkish soldier was found have been dropped? What measures have been taken to prevent these accidents so far, and what work does your government now have for this purpose? I'd like to share with you two rows of answers in the answer of the National Ministry of Defence, on May 4, 2012. After detailing the whereabouts of our soldiers so far, the answer to four or five questions regarding the actual accident will be given in two sentences: the cause of the helicopter accident will be revealed with the technical report which will follow the completion of the investigations of the accident-crime committee. In order to prevent such accidents, the necessary flight and ground security measures are being taken, periodic and phased maintenance of aircraft. The answer is given by Minister of National Defence Mr. Ismet Yilmaz. Twelve families destroyed, most of them martyrs. The response, unfortunately, is far from the facts of Turkey, except for the purpose of informing it has no content. Well, a more detailed motion on the S-70 Sikorsky-type helicopter crash in Dağlıca on 22 July 2012 was answered by Mr. Interior Minister Idris Naim Şahin on 1 November 2012. The answer is no different than the others, valued lawmakers, again in a sentence: I submit that the investigation into this helicopter accident could be requested by the prosecutor's office for the information requested as part of the 2012/1057 main case. Dear lawmakers, I share with you a sentence that the Home Secretary of this country can answer a one-page question about an accident where his own soldiers are martyrs. We didn't tell you to give us any information on the forensic aspect of the accident so we could share it. We asked for technical information on the helicopter in question, whether there was a possibility of an assassination, whether it was investigated by your Ministry or not, and which work was being conducted. He says: "Go, ask the prosecutor, as the MP, and get the answer. "The government's view of this matter is sadly, I regret to say -- can only be expressed by the bird's eye. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Mr. Ismet Yilmaz, Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu and others like him have been given similar questions after four accidents in the past eight months, despite the normal official deadlines and even the fact that the Interior Minister has been repeated three times in particular about the accident in Afghanistan, the same motion has not been answered so far, and it is a very grave situation for this Parliament to be considered so far. Dear lawmakers, do these cabinet-member ministers think they are far superior to you, highly qualified? How do they look at it, not answering a parliamentary motion -- I'm sorry to say -- do they think it's a man to ignore the questions the congressman asks on behalf of the nation? These cabinet members need to be aligned by the ruling party MPs first, and you need to pull them out first. This country is not the home of 25 cabinet ministers. This is a country where 550 MPs serve on behalf of the nation, where everyone in this House has the same right. So I've shared the answers these ministers have given us just to set an example for you, but they don't take you for a man. I mean, it's so sad, but I'm telling you the truth, they don't.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0051par0071	Speak for yourself.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0050par0072	Did anyone ever answer you about that?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0051par0073	We're talking.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0050par0074	Well, I'll speak for myself, then, and I'll return his answer, and I'll ask for it again, but... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that you have to support these problems as much as we do. This is a very serious matter. So, once again, I express that we're in favor of the motion, and I pay all of you my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0052par0079	Thank you. Mr. Dibek, you have a statement to make regarding the matter, under Article 60 of the Civil Code. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0053par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, there was a claim on the front page of a newspaper on November 24th about our helicopter that crashed on November 10th, which should be stated from here. He claimed that the cause of this accident was bureaucratic. Our pilot, who was killed in the accident, had filed a petition to the commanders in Siirt, or rather to the Army Command, that these flights could not be made, that they were wrong, that they were wrong, that they were wrong. Let the Siirt Brigade Command exercise discipline on the pilot who applied to the Army Command on this matter. It is alleged that he has applied for an application. In fact, it is said that Kara and Aviation Command later said to the pilots, "No, don't upset your commanders, make your flights." Look, there, on that day, because the other helicopter was stationed somewhere else, the helicopter that fell and we had 17 martyrs made several trips. Actually, it looks like we have a helicopter gap. And I think it's important that this motion be investigated. I would also like to point out that the Prime Minister's new plane is being redacted in the United States. These helicopters are $10 million each, and our government needs to think this through. I'm thinking 40 helicopters is the price of that plane. I don't think there's going to be any problems if they get 40 helicopters instead of that plane. Thank you for your promise, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0054par0088	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, SmurfÜnal, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0055par0091	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the Republican People's Party Group's motion to investigate. I hereby salute your high council. Before I begin my remarks, I celebrate the Year's Anniversary of the Right to Choose and Choose Turkish Women on December 5, 1934, under the initiative of the Great Leader Ataturk. Our women are the crown of our heads, and the light of our eyes, and the whiteness of our faces, and the sultan of our hearts. All rights are lawful to them. Members of parliament, on November 10, 2012, we lost our fellow flight crew members, two pilots and one flight technicians, along with a 14-member special operations team in the helicopter that crashed near the village of Bridgeçay, in the rural area of Pervari, Siirt. I remember our martyrs once again with mercy, and I wish patience and patience for their families and their comrades. Members of parliament, the weather has been assessed on the day of the incident, it has been determined that the weather is closed and low, but the distance of view is in proper measurements, and it has been decided to be carried out as planned by the brigade's command. On the first strike, 13 of our military personnel -- the gendarme's special operations team -- were brought down without incident to the landing zone, and the second group of military personnel to be taken down for the second strike were taken down again by the 13 gendarme special operations personnel, and they were taken up and landed in the landing zone, unfortunately, our helicopter was broken down. Congressmans, Sikorsky-type helicopters are special helicopters that give operations momentum and speed. It's a huge benefit to special operations units. They're particularly indispensable means of transportation for long-distance land operations. It is also an advanced general purpose helicopter used to transport personnel, flight operations, fire support, recon and surveillance, search and rescue, transport equipment and medical evacuation. Sikorsky helicopters, also known as Black Hawk helicopters, have been active by the United States Army since 1978, and many models have been used by 22 countries around the world. Since 1989, Sikorskys have been using helicopters in Turkey, which can carry 16 Hellfire missiles using external support systems in the inventory of Turkish Armed Forces. Our helicopters have many properties, I pass them on to time savings. Our helicopters can withstand light-gun fire, multiple explosives, or rockets, up to 23 millimeters. Flight controls are ballistically hardened and are equipped with backup electricity or hydraulic systems. It's capable of absorbing severe degree multiplications. It's equipped with digital cockpits and avionic systems. In addition, the digital automatic flight system and electronic flight information system play an important role in the crew's piloting and navigation to relieve the pilot's load. Congressmans, the first statement from the Chief of Staff shows that there is no negligence, that the incident occurred at this stage, depending on the weather conditions -- most likely -- that our pilots entered the fog unprepared. The S70-type helicopter, which was broken down in 2000, was built in 1992, with a tail number and entered the inventory of the Army Command on 17 October 2000. The helicopter's accepted life expectancy is 10,000 hours of flight. This is the equivalent of a service life of about 30 years. According to the next technical assessment, this period can be extended depending on the modernisation program. The crash helicopter has flown 1,845 hours in total, so only 20 percent of its service life has been flown. So it's not like it's supposed to be a floating coffin or anything like that, guys. The same type of helicopter that makes the most flights in the ground force is 3,700 hours in total -- 37 per cent of service life -- and, again, pilots in this helicopter are experienced pilot status, and flight hours are far above average according to their counterparts. Our first pilot, Black Pilot Captain Anil Barat Çetin, graduated from the Army Command Flight School in 2005 and took flights in helicopters dating back to the date of the incident for 1,425 hours. The total flight time of the martyr, Captain Cetin, was 475 hours in the fight against terrorism alone. Our second pilot, Black Pilot Lieutenant Jacob Chinar, is an experienced pilot who graduated from the Army Command Flight School in 2007 and flew 1,115 hours until the date of the incident. He's also a search and rescue pilot. Three hundred hours of the total flight time of Martyr First Lieutenant Çınar was also performed in the fight against terrorism, as I mentioned earlier. There is no sign of any outside terrorist involvement in our crash helicopter at this time. The helicopter is considered to have fallen due to sudden meteorological conditions, unprepared -- as I just pointed out -- due to its entry into the fog. Dear lawmakers, in the Turkish Armed Forces -- this is a great tradition of ours -- about the planes and helicopters that have been crashed -- are being investigated by their military commanders, as well as by their assessment and control heads, and as a result a joint assessment of the accident is being drawn up. The preparation process of the report is ongoing and has not yet been published. The report will explain the cause of the accident and will cover the necessary measures. I don't think the allegations are scientific, so I don't think Congress needs to investigate the matter. In this context, the EC PARTY government says that our fight against terrorism will continue decisively, believing that we will succeed in the hopes of our beloved nation sooner or later, I give my regards to all of you. Before I complete my remarks, I've observed that they've entered into something in their previous talks. There's a 100-plane JSF Project, the Join Strike Fighter Project, the Joint Impact Plane Project. Turkish Air Force Command has entered this project with 100 aircraft, with the approval of our Chief of Staff, our National Minister of Defence and Prime Minister. We will modernise and replace our two-man F-4 and RF-4E aircraft, which have served in the Turkish Air Force inventory for about 40 years. This project is a face stream of the Turkish Air Force, the Turkish Armed Forces. Trust the friend, and fear the enemy. We're proud to be part of this, to be part of this project.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0056par0106	So it wasn't there before, it just happened?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0055par0107	I give you all my regards, and I wish you a good day.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0057par0109	Thank you. Mr. Halaman, you have a request under Article 60 of the Civil Code. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0058par0114	Mr. President, thank you. Our Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs is here. Government Waterworks is selling water-watering troops. Who's he selling it to? Sells to farmers, sells to farmers. These troops, in the long run... these farmers, while having difficulty selling their own products, are constantly raising prices per acre. The Minister of Forestry, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Energy, who has initiative over these troops, on this occasion, take his hand off the farmer, lower those prices a little bit. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0059par0118	Thank you. Republican People's Party group proposal for your votes:
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0060par0123	Mr. President, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0059par0124	I'll call... All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions; the proposal is not accepted. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs from the Commissions. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of the Turkish Republic government and the Libyan Government of the Military Education Business Union, where we left off from the 3rd ranking draft law bill and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Justice Commission Report and the Law Charter, which is ranked in the fourth place in the fourth place, for the length of Judiciary and part-execution of Court Decisions to be paid for or not to be carried out. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with Plan and Budget Commission Report, which is ranked in the 5th place. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. In yesterday's merger, Article 4 was adopted in the first part of the bill, which was considered the main law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. There's a motion on Article 5 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 337 rows in contact with Capital Markets Bill 5. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Günal Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan Sumer Oral Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0061par0159	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0062par0160	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0059par0161	The government disagrees, and I'm reading the reason: Some regulations have been introduced in line with the development described in detail in the capital market, but in some cases the SPK has demanded excessive authority and the limits of the required powers have been large enough to lead to a systemic crisis in the event of abuse. Also, the last-minute Interim 9. Despite the fact that the material has been introduced to many radical regulations, these substances have been rushed to the commission without official opinion from other institutions and have controversial provisions that may cause problems in its content. Temporal 9, which is not included in the draft and is not on the agenda at the Subcommittee meeting, but is added to the text at the last moment by a motion issued at the Commission meeting. Despite the fact that the material has been brought to a very radical arrangement, these substances have been brought to the commission in a hurry and without official opinion from other institutions. In fact, this material has a content that must be presented by taking a separate bill of law in itself. However, at the last moment, which became an AKP classic, the habit of adding items to the bag of laws has also shown itself here, and such a broad article has been added to the text without discussion. (x) 337 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 33rd Union's Charter, dated 04/12/2012. This article is incorporated under the name İMKB (IMKB) Borsa İstanbul Anonymous Company. So indirect privatisation is being done without being subject to privatisation procedures. The President of the Privatisation Administration on this issue and the Minister of Finance's view of the relevant Minister of Finance have not been received. It has been delivered to us as a healing for other interested institutions, but no written opinion has been received. In particular, issues related to capital and partnership structure and Treasury shares are confusing. In the matter, it is also ruled that concessions be determined by the original contract. However, the company will be a participant of the Treasury, since forty-nine percent of its shares are said to be registered for the Treasury. Here the Treasury share is 49% instead of 51%, which means that this company is a private legal person and that it is not controlled by the Treasury. In this case, there is no mechanism left to prevent the management of the Stock Exchange from being passed on to unwanted persons. This is a problem for the sound functioning of the financial system. Stock markets aren't just built for profit. The goal is that the Stock Exchange mediates the spread of capital and the investment of savings owners. Stock markets also play an important role in securing financial stability and boosting savings and investments. For these reasons, a review of the partnership structure must be added to the legal text of the privileged share, if not done. The bill is authorized to open a diplomatic mission in countries associated with the firm markets. This request, which does not appear to be part of the original text of the bill, seems reasonable, but is a sign that domestic discussions in the economy can also be carried abroad through foreign diplomatic missions. In countries with the Turkish Republic's embassies, the opening of separate diplomatic missions in institutions will lead to a waste of resources and will further reduce the lack of co-ordination already in the economy and will lead to many heads. Another interesting issue that was added to the bill at the last minute and undisputed is the real estate of the IMKB. IMKB-owned plots are being handed over to the Public Housing Administration for free. The issue is simplified by saying that education and teaching institutions will be funded. But it's not the goal, it's the application. There have been abuses in many businesses that have begun with ulterior motives. The area where these plots are located is a very high range. In a hurry, adding this material raises question marks. Certainly, the fact that not even the area of land is included in the additional table and that there is about 159,000 square feet of space after our questions has increased our question marks and concerns. For these reasons, the bill must be removed from the draft text.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0063par0171	That's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit03spe0059par0172	I submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0059par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 34th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 337. The commission and the government are in place. On the 5th article, there was no sufficient number of decisions to vote on the motion of Antalya MP Mehmet Günal and his friends. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on the 6th article, I'm having it read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 6 of the 337 Numbered Bill of Law be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Hasip Kaplan Halil Aksoy Sebahat Tuncel Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0064par0019	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0059par0020	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0065par0021	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0059par0022	Anybody want a word on the motion? I'm having it read. Turkey has $770 billion in GDP. Turkey is behind countries such as Iran (12,329), Brazil (12,480), Russia (16,852), South Africa, Venezuela, Argentina with a national income of over $10,000. In 2002 the national income per capita in Turkey was over $3,500, while in Brazil was $2,822 in Argentina, $2,709 in Argentina, 2.010 in Iran, $2,371 in Russia, and $3,675 in Venezuela. As we look at the increase in national income per capita, the minimum increase appears to take place in Turkey. In Argentina, national income rose from $2,079 to 6.99%, from $2,010 to $639% in Iran, from $2,39% in Russia, from $2,371 to $16,825 per cent in Russia, and from $3,553 to $10,973% in each country. In terms of notes from international rating agencies, Turkey is part of the market (BBB, BB+, with Ba1 notes) as a country face-to-face with uncertainties created by financial and economic conditions. I mean, there's still a lot of distance for Turkey to have the ability to fulfill its financial obligations. While the AKP government has not even solved Kadiköy's traffic problem, it dreams of making Istanbul its global financial centre. It is not like the capital traffic problem or providing infrastructure through municipalities. The AKP believes it will solve the current deficit by coming to capital. For Istanbul to function as a financial centre, it must compete with 48 financial centres such as London, New York, Tokyo, San Francisco, Sydney, Moscow and Seoul. In addition, nearly 30% of international capital is located in London, New York and the following global financial centers. According to the University of Laughborough Globalization and World Cities Working Group (GaWC), the 3rd University of England. After the group's Beta cities, Moscow and Seoul, Istanbul, Buenos Aires, Budapest, followed by the third. The group is part of the Gamma cities group. With Moscow and Seoul, 3. Group Gamma cities only want 3% of the capital. To be clear, Istanbul will be seeking a handful of sand from the sea within the World Capital Market. Turkey's demand for this much hot money poses serious risks for the real economy. The hot money coming to Turkey will not only exploit Turkey, but the Central Bank will continue to boost foreign currency reserves and public investments will be reduced. We will have workers who will be the most harmful in a Turkey that will become more involved in the impact of global capital. In favor of capital policies will cause more exploitation because of the cheap labour force. Turkey is implementing its 15% stop at the local investor's in terms of the alien's.0. The government, who is not afraid to claim to be nationalist conservative in all matters, should at least consider its own citizen equal to the stranger. The Central Bank's efforts to eliminate the risk of foreign investors' search for currency continue to have negative effects on the real sector, harming the local exporter. In the same way, 137 in the bill. 2 of the matter. The strike and lockout ban on the joke include European Social Conditions, UN Economic, Social, Cultural Rights Conventions, and 90 of the Constitution, as well as contracts of the ILO (87 and 98). It's against the clause. It also brings with it the negative effects of the AKP (AKP) law that only calls for hot money to the real sector, as well as serious antidemocratic practices. What has been revealed are approaches that mean nothing but nationalism that Turkey is a great country. The figures above reveal that the hot money that will come to Turkey will only exploit our working people. The statement that Istanbul will become a financial centre does not mean anything beyond rude populism. Six for those reasons. The item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on the 7th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Capital Markets Bill 7th, 337 rows in sight. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Günal Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan Sumer Oral Lütfu Türkkan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0066par0045	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0059par0046	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0067par0047	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0068par0048	Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0059par0049	Lütfü Türkkan who wants a word on the motion is the MP of Kopeeli.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0069par0051	Mr. President, I'm going to talk about the MHP Group's motion on Article 7 of Capital Market Act 337. Since this law is being discussed in parliament in the commissions, it is called the law, both in the press and in public. The reason why it is called the Honey Law is not because of the capital structure, but because there is a reason why there is no such thing as capitalization or money. The most important part of this law that separates power and opposition is the matter of the land, which causes it to be called the law. Now, along with this law, the corporate personality of the Istanbul Stock Exchange is changing, the Borsa is becoming Istanbul; a new structure is being created to buy the Future Trade Exchange and the Gold Stock Exchange. All of these markets are being moved to Ataşehir, on the Anatolian coast, called the Istanbul Financial Centre. There's a land that's been assigned, and it'll be collected under one roof. There is an Istanbul Securities Stock Exchange that operates in Finland. This will be moved to Ataşehir, along with this new construction. So, what's left in the will? There will be 186 acres of land, a very serious runt, that will water everyone's mouth. Today, he travels through cities with 186 acres of land in the village. In the middle of Istanbul, there are 186 acres, a sea overseer, a certain land of construction... the main nuance of the law that creates the basic infrastructure of this law, which makes so many people anxious, which makes some of them hungry. The problem is, 186 acres, how will this land be assessed? The value of this land, along with the villas, is about 15 billion euros. 15 billion TL is a very important number in Turkey, an important number in the world and a very important number in Turkey's budget. So any purchase in schools, public institutions, when you're over 12,000 TL, you're bidding, and with this law, our government says, "Let's turn this land over to the TOKI." So what happens when we hand it over to TOKI? TOKI will give to whomever he wants without bidding. So in the heart of Istanbul, 186 acres will be transferred to a sea-dominated land, a 15 billion-dollar runt and a TOKI (TİKİ) will receive it -- as our friends from the CHP Group often stressed earlier -- to give it to their own supporters. In the meantime, it'll be said: "We've been tricked, we've been scammed." Well, do you have any appeals for fraud? No. If our friend didn't say so, he'd be stuck there. There's a much bigger version of similar practice here, and it's going to be put into practice. So we say: "A land of 186 acres, a land of this state, you hand it over to the Treasury." What is so disturbing about the government's transfer to the Treasury? When it's transferred to the Treasury, he'll have to make a tender. That's the problem there. So he can't give the land to the people and organizations he wants, he can't go after them, he won't go into someone's pocket, he'll go into the government's pocket. I thought you said the state lasted forever. I thought you said the government was blessed. What happened to, uh, Bethulmal being something that we've been working on a lot of times? Bringing the law into someone's pocket is a sin here, and then it's immoral. That's why I'm saying, if you're really sincere about this law, come back and hand over the 186 acres of land that he's turned over to the Treasury. The Treasury will then tender it in the interest of the state itself. Of course it's assessed, of course it's built well, let the money sit down, but let the government put it in their pocket. Don't let Ahmed go after Mehmet, KC. Or any other group. I give you all a warm welcome (Applause from MHP rows).
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0070par0059	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 8 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Capital Markets Bill 8th, 337 rows in sight. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Günal Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan Sumer Oral Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0071par0070	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0070par0071	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0072par0072	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0070par0073	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0073par0074	Motive...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0070par0075	I'm reading the reason: Some regulations have been introduced in line with the development described in detail in the capital market, but in some cases the SEC has demanded excessive authority and the limits of the required powers have been large enough to lead to a systemic crisis in the event of abuse. Also, the last-minute Interim 9. Despite the fact that the material has been introduced to many radical regulations, these substances have been rushed to the commission without official opinion from other institutions and have controversial provisions that may cause problems in its content. Temporal 9, which is not included in the draft and is not on the agenda at the Subcommittee meeting, but is added to the text at the last moment by a motion issued at the Commission meeting. Despite the fact that the material has been brought to a very radical arrangement, these substances have been brought to the commission in a hurry and without official opinion from other institutions. In fact, this material has a content that must be presented as a separate bill of law. However, at the last moment, which became an AKP classic, the habit of adding items to the bag of laws has also shown itself here, and such a broad article has been added to the text without discussion. This article is incorporated under the name İMKB (IMKB) Borsa İstanbul Anonymous Company. So indirect privatisation is being done without being subject to privatisation procedures. The President of the Privatisation Administration on this issue and the Minister of Finance's view of the relevant Minister of Finance have not been received. It has been delivered to us as a healing for other interested institutions, but no written opinion has been received. In particular, issues related to capital and partnership structure and Treasury shares are confusing. In the matter, it is also ruled that concessions be determined by the original contract. However, the company will be a participant of the Treasury, since forty-nine percent of its shares are said to be registered for the Treasury. Here the Treasury share is 49% instead of 51%, which means that this company is a private legal person and that it is not controlled by the Treasury. In this case, there is no mechanism left to prevent the management of the Stock Exchange from being passed on to unwanted persons. This is a problem for the sound functioning of the financial system. Stock markets aren't just built for profit. The goal is that the Stock Exchange mediates the spread of capital and the investment of savings owners. Stock markets also play an important role in securing financial stability and boosting savings and investments. For these reasons, a review of the partnership structure must be added to the legal text of the privileged share, if not done. The bill is authorized to open a diplomatic mission in countries associated with the firm markets. This request, which does not appear to be part of the original text of the bill, seems reasonable, but is a sign that domestic discussions in the economy can also be carried abroad through foreign diplomatic missions. In countries with the Turkish Republic's embassies, the opening of separate diplomatic missions in institutions will lead to a waste of resources and will further reduce the lack of co-ordination already in the economy and will lead to many heads. Another interesting issue that was added to the bill at the last minute and undisputed is the real estate of the IMKB. IMKB-owned plots are being handed over to the Public Housing Administration for free. The issue is simplified by saying that education and teaching institutions will be funded. But it's not the goal, it's the application. There have been abuses in many businesses that have begun with ulterior motives. The area where these plots are located is a very high range. In a hurry, adding this material raises question marks. Certainly, the fact that not even the area of land is included in the additional table and that there is about 159,000 square feet of space after our questions has increased our question marks and concerns. For these reasons, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 9 that I read and process. We offer and propose that the 12 months in Article 9 of the current SEC Law shall be changed into six months. Aydın Ağan Ayyadın Kamer Young Brült Kuşoğlu Flood Köse Mustafa Serdar Soydan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Capital Markets Bill 9th, 337 rows in sight. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text Mehmet Günal Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan Sumer Oral Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0074par0100	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0070par0101	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0075par0102	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0070par0103	Yeah. Some regulations have been introduced in line with the development described in detail in the capital market, but in some cases the SEC has demanded excessive authority and the limits of the required powers have been large enough to lead to a systemic crisis in the event of abuse. Also, the last-minute Interim 9. Despite the fact that the material has been introduced to many radical regulations, such substances have been brought to the commission without formal opinion from other institutions and have been rushed to the commission and have controversial provisions that may cause problems in its content. Temporal 9, which is not included in the draft and is not on the agenda at the Subcommittee meeting, but is added to the text at the last moment by a motion issued at the Commission meeting. Despite the fact that the material has been brought to a very radical arrangement, these substances have been brought to the commission without formal opinion from other institutions and in a hurry. In fact, this material has a content that must be presented as a separate bill of law. However, at the last moment, which became an AKP classic, the habit of adding items to the bag of laws has also shown itself here, and such a broad article has been added to the text without discussion. This article is incorporated under the name İMKB (IMKB) Borsa İstanbul Anonymous Company. So indirect privatisation is being done without being subject to privatisation procedures. The President of the Privatisation Administration on this issue and the Minister of Finance's view of the relevant Minister of Finance have not been received. It has been delivered to us as a healing for other interested institutions, but no written opinion has been received. In particular, issues related to capital and partnership structure and Treasury shares are confusing. In the matter, it is also ruled that concessions be determined by the original contract. However, the company will be a participant of the Treasury, since forty-nine percent of its shares are said to be registered for the Treasury. Here the Treasury share is 49% instead of 51%, which means that this company is a private legal person and that it is not controlled by the Treasury. In this case, there is no mechanism left to prevent the management of the Stock Exchange from being passed on to unwanted persons. This is a problem for the sound functioning of the financial system. Stock markets aren't just built for profit. The goal is that the Stock Exchange mediates the spread of capital and the investment of savings owners. Stock markets also play an important role in securing financial stability and boosting savings and investments. For these reasons, a review of the partnership structure must be added to the legal text of the privileged share, if not done. The bill is authorized to open a diplomatic mission in countries associated with the firm markets. This request, which does not appear to be part of the original text of the bill, seems reasonable, but is a sign that domestic discussions in the economy can also be carried abroad through foreign diplomatic missions. In countries with the Turkish Republic's embassies, the opening of separate diplomatic missions in institutions will lead to a waste of resources and will further reduce the lack of co-ordination already in the economy and will lead to many heads. Another interesting issue that was added to the bill at the last minute and undisputed is the real estate of the IMKB. IMKB-owned plots are being handed over to the Public Housing Administration for free. The issue is simplified by saying that education and teaching institutions will be funded. But it's not the goal, it's the application. There have been abuses in many businesses that have begun with ulterior motives. The area where these plots are located is a very high range. In a hurry, adding this material raises question marks. Certainly, the fact that not even the area of land is included in the additional table and that there is about 159,000 square feet of space after our questions has increased our question marks and concerns. For these reasons, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. 9th of the current SEC Law Bill. We offer and propose that the 12 months in matter be changed into six months. Aydın Agha Ayadın (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0076par0119	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0070par0120	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0077par0121	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0070par0122	Yeah, well, it's Kamer Young, the Tunceli MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0078par0124	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the 9th Amendment of the Capital Market Act and to all of you, with respect. Dear MPs, our motion is to reduce the period of 12 months in Article 9 to six months. In fact, the capital market, of course, it's nice to edit various laws, but the AKP has a tradition, which I'm going to steal from the state and put it in my pocket. And at the end of that, they started a stock market corporation. While the stock market was setting up the Istanbul Anonymous Company, you immediately handed over an 186-acre treasured land acquired over the years to an anonymous company. Who will he go to after the anonymous company? He will go to his relatives with him, and there is no way he will go to anyone else. It's the most valuable land ever earned by such long labor... I already know who owns it. Now, my dear friends, there has never been a time in the AKP when the state was destroyed and destroyed by all its institutions. We've just examined Turkey's Tashkomu Businesses at the CIT Commission, it's a disaster. Look, a few people are exporting stone coals to provide a runt that is not being produced in Turkey. They're importing 4-5 billion dollars. Yeah, is that the kind of pro-state... what is it? Sir, workers are expensive. Let 50,000 workers work instead of 10,000 workers. Why is he touching you? I mean, is there such an enemy of labor? And it's not run properly. Before that, we looked at the accounts on ENGLISH. Friends, there's a general manager, he won't give up his salary, and he's building a branch in Monaco, central in Istanbul. Monaco won't give us the accounts; there's a general cost of 36m euros, no account. I mean, I'm amazed. Now, a statement came out the other day by Ali Bey: "We will help Egypt for $2 billion." And then the newspapers wrote: "One billion dollars helped the Egyptian president, Mursi, come to the AKP's congress. I'm asking you right now, Ali Babacan, are you giving this money to your father? What part of the government's budget do you pay? It's government money. How do you give it to him? Then they gave me $1 billion, and then Mursi came to your convention. Now you see, the President of the Russian Federation has arrived in Turkey. The Russian dogs searched Taner Yildiz's car when he went to meet him. Yeah, how could a government be so humiliated? Russian dogs... Russian dogs came looking for your Minister of State's car. Why? He doesn't trust you. Why didn't the president of this Russian Federation come to Ankara? He doesn't want anyone above him. Sir, if he comes to Ankara, he will go to Anitkabir, he will visit Ataturk, or he will meet Abdullah Gül. What kind of government is that? Is the government that damaged? Taner Yildiz goes out to Iraq, he doesn't go to his capital, he goes to Erbil. In Erbil, a government, such as the Republic of Turkey, does not land the plane of a minister of a state with a great value to the AKP. It's a disgrace. Do those who put this Turkey in such a position have no red faces, no shame at all? That's the kind of claim we're making that this country's been robbed, don't you ever get bored? Won't they ask you the day after tomorrow when you're done with this deputy? Why did you rob this government so much? Why did you give so many contracts to your followers? Why did you make the government so disreputable? Well, now, dear lawmakers, look, everything's hidden in Turkey. All control of your reign has been eliminated. Look, there's a budget coming in, there's no Court reports in the budget, there's no final account laws. Nothing like this has ever happened. What if such an irresponsibility... even without the fear of God, there must be a sense of remorse, but when there are none... well, in opposition, we tell you everything, tell us one thing. I ask you, Ali Babacan: Why did you give $1 billion to Egypt? What part of the budget did you give him? Is this your father's money? It's people's money, their sweat. You can't get rid of teachers. Look, for how many days, the teachers waiting for the appointment waited in the cold that winter. Take it or leave it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Only those like Recep Tayyip Erdogan would be fit to lead people into torture, afraid of people, not accepting them. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0079par0139	Mr. President, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0080par0140	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0081par0141	Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0080par0142	To our group president, to visit our Prime Minister, especially the President of the Russian Federation, and other things.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0081par0143	I'll give you two minutes, Mr. Aydın, for bullying. Please don't let us make a new taunt.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0080par0146	Thank you. Dear friends, I believe there was only one truth: people should have fear of God, they should have a sense of conscience. But I refer this friend to you and to the public. I ask you, are these the conversations of people who have a fear of God, a conscience, a sense of guilt? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Second, of course, they asked the camel: "Why is your neck crooked?" Now, how am I supposed to fix that? What do you want me to correct? All this time in this House, you've been going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and Oh, for God's sake! What did you talk about the motion? What did you say about the law? Have you examined what this law brings?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0082par0150	I'll teach you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0080par0151	Do you know this law? Do you know the content of your motion? I mean, his biggest capital is insulting people. That's right, that's a very true statement. Now the President of the Russian Federation pays a study visit.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0083par0153	The tunces chased him, too!
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0080par0154	The heads of state who visit work can work all over Turkey. If there was an official visit, Ankara would have to do it here. If you knew that, you wouldn't be using those expressions here. When you lack knowledge, if you only edit it on insult, you give a very serious explanation. So the biggest problem we've ever had is actually getting some answers here, but we're saying that we can't leave things unanswered, and again, I'd like to thank you all.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0084par0157	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0085par0158	You don't have the power to say anything!
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0084par0164	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. Yes, there's been a disagreement between the clerks, so I'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there's enough to make a decision. Motion denied. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on Article 10 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 337 Sequential Capital Market Bill, which is currently in session, is 10th. Article 1. It's a joke. We propose and supply to replace the term "altering" in the form of "bullucinated" in the sentence. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Mustafa Serdar Soydan Tuğul Köse Bornt Kuşoğlu Kamer Young Aydın Agha Ayadın Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 10th annual Capital Markets Bill of 337 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Günal Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan Sumer Oral Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0086par0185	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0084par0186	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0087par0187	No, we don't.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0088par0188	Motive...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0084par0189	I'm having it read. Some regulations have been introduced in line with the development described in detail in the capital market, but in some cases the SEC has demanded excessive authority and the limits of the required powers have been large enough to lead to a systemic crisis in the event of abuse. Also, the last-minute Interim 9. Despite the fact that the material has been introduced to many radical regulations, these substances have been rushed to the commission without official opinion from other institutions and have controversial provisions that may cause problems in its content. Temporal 9, which is not included in the draft and is not on the agenda at the Subcommittee meeting, but is added to the text at the last moment by a motion issued at the Commission meeting. Despite the fact that the material has been brought to a very radical arrangement, these substances have been brought to the commission without formal opinion from other institutions and in a hurry. In fact, this material has a content that must be presented as a separate bill of law. However, at the last moment, which became an AKP classic, the habit of adding items to the bag of laws has also shown itself here, and such a broad article has been added to the text without discussion. This article is incorporated under the name İMKB (IMKB) Borsa İstanbul Anonymous Company. So indirect privatisation is being done without being subject to privatisation procedures. The President of the Privatisation Administration on this issue and the Minister of Finance's view of the relevant Minister of Finance have not been received. It has been delivered to us as a healing for other interested institutions, but no written opinion has been received. In particular, issues related to capital and partnership structure and Treasury shares are confusing. In the matter, it is also ruled that concessions be determined by the original contract. However, the company will be a participant of the Treasury, since forty-nine percent of its shares are said to be registered for the Treasury. Here the Treasury share is 49% instead of 51%, which means that this company is a private legal person and that control is not in the Treasury. In this case, there is no mechanism left to prevent the management of the Stock Exchange from being passed on to unwanted persons. This is a problem for the sound functioning of the financial system. Stock markets aren't just built for profit. The goal is that the stock market mediates the distribution of capital and the austerity of savings into investment. Stock markets also play an important role in securing financial stability and boosting savings and investments. For these reasons, a review of the partnership structure must be added to the legal text of the privileged share, if not done. The bill is authorized to open a diplomatic mission in countries associated with the firm markets. This request, which does not appear to be part of the original text of the bill, seems reasonable, but is a sign that domestic discussions in the economy can also be carried abroad through foreign diplomatic missions. In countries with the Turkish Republic's embassies, the opening of separate diplomatic missions in institutions will lead to a waste of resources and will further reduce the lack of co-ordination already in the economy and will lead to many heads. Another interesting issue that was added to the bill at the last minute and undisputed is the real estate of the IMKB. IMKB-owned plots are being handed over to the Public Housing Administration for free. The issue is simplified by saying that education and teaching institutions will be funded. But it's not the goal, it's the application. There have been abuses in many businesses that have begun with ulterior motives. The area where these plots are located is a very high range. In a hurry, adding this material raises question marks. Certainly, the fact that not even facial measurements of the land are included in the additional table and that there is about 159,000 square feet of space after our questions has raised our question marks and concerns. For these reasons, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 10th draft of the 337 Sequential Capital Market Law. Article 1. It's a joke. We propose and supply to replace the term "altering" in the form of "bullucinated" in the sentence. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0089par0204	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0084par0205	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0090par0206	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0091par0207	Aydın Ayya morning...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0084par0208	Yes, Aydın Ayyadın, İstanbul MP who asked for a statement on the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Aya morning, your signature is not in the motion, please sign it. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0092par0212	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from our group in Article 10 of the Capital Market Law Bill, which we're discussing. On this occasion, I salute you all. The Capital Market Law is a very important law, and it needs to change quickly, and it needs to be a more modern, more modern law. In the Plan and Budget Commission, we have expressed our views on this bill, both in the lower commission and in the upper commission, but some of our proposals and criticisms have not been taken into consideration. But many of the motions we saw there for the first time came and were processed, both in the lower commission and in the upper commission, in accordance with the ruling party's proposals. We're meeting them here today. In one of the proposed proposals, a new company called Istanbul Stock Exchange, the Gold Stock Exchange, and VOB. A new company called Istanbul, which has never been included in the draft, but is extremely important. With the establishment of the stock market Istanbul company, there are some real estate that will be transferred to this company. The Istanbul Stock Exchange has a very important property that is available in Assınye, Istanbul has a very valuable property that looks after the Bosporus. The buildings here are again being given to Istanbul, but a 160-acre estate that is very important to the Istanbul Strait is being handed over to the Turkish Republic. While we were discussing this issue in the phase of the Plan and Budget Commission, we felt it appropriate for this land to be transferred to the Ministry of National Education, where its revenues would only be used to make and make schools and homes. Now, this is extremely important land. We do not wish to build a shopping mall or villas in the best part of Istanbul. We propose that this place be transferred to the treasury, and that it, again, be assessed by the Ministry of National Education and Youth and Sports, and that the revenues from this place should be made into schools and schools and to the youth of higher education, as the Republican People's Party. If the shopping malls are built and turned into a place to get a runt, we are already facing a traffic problem on almost every side of Istanbul, which is a road to the Bosphorus and Maslak. It's a very busy road. If a new shopping centre is built here, it would be more useful to make it into a bigger mess, but as our Republican People's Party, not as a Rant area, but as a place for education, for the production of this place, and for the youth of higher learning, it would be more useful to be transformed into a country where they could live. In this regard, we, the Republican People's Party, would like to see this land transferred to the treasury and the treasure evaluated to be used in the construction of schools and dorms. I hereby salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0093par0217	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 11 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 11th of the 337 Sequential Capital Market Law bill in sight. Article 1 of the article. We propose and supply to change the expression in the context of the joke to be changed in the form of "capsayan. " Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ayadın Mustafa Serdar Soydan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0094par0228	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0093par0229	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0095par0230	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0093par0231	Mahmut Tanal has asked for a statement on the motion, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0096par0232	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, in our country, we've had laws like mushrooms in recent years, but the laws that are made, what they bring to the public, what they get into the public's pockets, what they don't know. Making laws like mushrooms is not a virtue, it is a virtue of the law that benefits the people. Now, when we look at this law that's been made, I'm going to try to count on how sloppy, how careless, how careless, and how much work has been done to you, precious MPs. For example, Article 58 was referred to as Article 502 to 514 of Law No. 6098. In the fourth article of Article 52, the Law on Debts No. 6098 was referred to in the article No.11/12/2011. So there's no care in the law, no care. In Article 52, you will write the date when the Law of Debts is accepted, and you will not write the date in Article 58, but only the number of the Law of Debts. Secondly, the new Turkish Trade Law on Turkish Trade Law No. 21 shall be written in 21 articles on the Turkish Trade Law, one by one: Article 12, 13, 17, 18, 23, 27, 29, 30, 49, 81, 86, 92, and in some of the same clauses, some of the new Turkish Trade Law 6102 has been adopted, and some of them are not written as a clear proof that the law is not really carefully prepared. Three: yesterday, I told Mr. Minister, here in Articles 58 and 59, in the bill: "These goods are not foreclosed, state property is not foreclosed, and the citizen goes to the European Court of Human Rights and condemns the state for compensation." Mr. Secretary, if he listens, they'll know about it. Mr. Secretary, if they leave you alone, you bureaucrats... And now it's time for the bureaucrats. Unfortunately, we have 15 bureaucrats now, and today, at the same time, on December 5, 1934, it is a day when women are given the right to choose and be elected, and there should be a lot of women from senior bureaucrats, but we have only one woman from such high bureaucrats, and I condemn the Ministry in that sense. Four; Mr. Minister gave false information yesterday, which was said to be the basis of property to the European Court of Human Rights, which means that state goods are not foreclosed, and there is no such decision. I read it immediately. Such a decision was made and rejected. On December 18, 2007, Abidin Şahin had tobacconist decisions dated October 18, 2005. Here, property rights are not foreclosed, state property is not foreclosured, the state complains to the European Court of Human Rights because it does not receive citizens, and the state is sentenced to compensation. And in this bill, you can't measure the exports of the capital market and the exports of that company, you can't measure their valuable paper, you can't foreclose, and if it's a textile company, for example, it's a public company, and if it's a bond company, you can't foreclose on its precious document. Well, then, you allow fraud of the people, and the example of this has happened in the past, in accordance with Articles 58 and 59, it is a violation of the right to property under Article 90 of our Constitution, under Article 1 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Mr. Vice President of Parliament... is also a violation of the Constitution under this Civil Code. I ask that you vote in comparison to this verdict and in accordance with our motion, with all my compliments.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0097par0245	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0096par0247	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0097par0248	I'll submit the clause to your votes, and I'll call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough of a decision, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, There are two motions on the 12th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and add the following sentence to the end of Article 12 (II) of the current 337 Order Numbered Bill. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ayadın Bkent Kuşoğlu Mahmoud Tanal Flood Kösez Közüm Közük Kurt İzzet Çetin Mustafa Serdar Soydan İlhan Demiröz In this case, according to Article 462/3 of Turkish Trade Law 6102, the current shareholders will self-inflicted shares due to funds added to capital. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 12 of the 337 Numbered Legislature. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Sebahat Tuncel Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0098par0269	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0097par0270	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0099par0271	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0097par0272	Yes, Idris Baluken, Bingol MP who wanted to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0100par0273	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 12 of the Capital Market Law. I salute your committee. This is the trial of September 12th coup, especially in the past months. You know, in courts, a number of theatrical scenes are being brought to life, but when we look at its response in real life, we see that in social, social, political, economic areas, all of the impact institutions and the impact mentalitys, unfortunately, are being carried out in the same way by the AKP. Especially in economic policies, economic policies, and we're here to witness the law proposals, legislations, which are also made with that kind of impact logic. You know, there was only one area that was untouched during the coup period, almost the impact mentality, that passed through the entire social opposition, but it didn't touch the Economic Decisions on January 24th, and at the core of the economic decision there was the marketing of capital, the market opening to foreign capital. Today, the AKP also represents the continuation of such a mindset, and it is possible to say that the bill that comes today has an understanding that leads to foreign capital and prioritizes labour exploitation. Often, when we criticize the AKP in the squares, in the fields, we say that an anonymous company structure has a mentality. This law is being discussed here in the Assembly General Assembly, with a bill that this anonymous corporate understanding now exists. Of course, we know that in the essence of capitalism, the enlargement of capital is more based on the priority of more than production, more than work, more than investment. And you, by enforcing the wheel of this savage capitalism, by enforcing its rules here in the same way, are opening up a paradise for foreign capital in our country. Now, yesterday, I asked Mr. Secretary: "In a bill that favours foreign capital like this, you also limit the union organisation of workers, workers, bankers, and workers in the banking and financial sector." We said this was not in line with the ILO, the European Social Condition. In his response to us, the minister said that this had nothing to do with ILO, it had nothing to do with its fitness to the European Social Condition, that the workers who went to this area should choose such information on purpose. To be honest, we're not satisfied at all. In fact, your overall approach to the trade union movement, your laws, which are constantly preventing trade union-free, job-unsecured flexible work, are giving important clues to this issue, at the point of your approach to labour. When we left the General Assembly late yesterday, we witnessed a parliamentary staff, a parliamentary worker, having a heart spasm. So your labour exploitation has come to a point where your understanding of capital has reached a point where you are running the House by twelve o'clock in the night, by morning hours, you are victimizing all the workers of the Assembly, you are making them sick, as long as we make the laws pleasing this foreign capital. You are in a sense. Look, these House staff have a lot of problems. Yesterday, on this occasion, we spoke to them. Almost at the same time as the General Assembly, most of them are working on 12 hours. From the council drivers to the teamaker, the overtime over 12 hours has only one purpose: the AKP looks cute to foreign capital, capital group. So we'd like to point out that an understanding that prioritizes this kind of foreign capital but never counts the work structure has been accepted in any way. Also, speaking of which, I'd like to remind the Speaker here. In general, there are serious difficulties with the rights of the House staff. Among the drivers who work at the same status are serious problems in terms of working conditions, autonomy rights, job guarantees of first advisers, second advisers. We don't think we should be insensitive to the rights of these workers when we're making these people work so hard. I invite all of you to be sensitive about this, and I thank you all.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0101par0282	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and add the following sentence to the end of Article 12 (II) of the current 337 Order Numbered Bill. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends In this case, according to Article 462/3 of Turkish Trade Law 6102, the current shareholders will self-inflicted shares due to funds added to capital. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0102par0290	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0101par0291	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0103par0292	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0101par0293	Aydın Ayyadın, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0104par0295	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party on the motion on Article 12 of the Capital Market Bill, which we are discussing. I hereby pay my respects. Dear MPs, with this bill, the Future Trade Exchange in the Istanbul Gold Stock Exchange and İzmir is completely disappearing, becoming history, leaving. All of their assets are joined together by the name of Borsa İstanbul, if he is a partner. However, hundreds of employees work in the Istanbul Gold Stock Exchange and in the Future Trade Exchange and in Izmir (Izmir). Now, if these stock markets are closed, what will happen to those who work at the Istanbul Gold Stock Exchange and those who work at the Izmir Future Trade Exchange, it is not clear what will happen in this bill. We'll probably continue to run them in the Istanbul Stock Exchange. There's no legal infrastructure here, even if it's called the Istanbul Stock Exchange. What's going to happen to these working people? Because these people have been working for years in the Golden Stock Exchange and in the Future Trade Exchange. The institution where these people work is closed in one day, with a bill, with a law, and they're left in the middle. Now, our Minister and our bureaucrats should probably take this into account, and the workers who work here should also consider the situation of the officers who work here. These things can't be left in the middle. There is no doubt that they should be assigned to a position in accordance with their duties. If we leave these people alone, these people will be victims. There is a second issue, again, small investors who have invested in the capital market for years. For example, at Kepez and Çukurova, before Kepez and Çukurova were seized by the government overnight and their boards were closed. Now, this could be the faults of the judges' partners of Kepez (Kurkurova) and his partners. Legally, they went over them, criminal charges were filed, their property was confiscated. There's nothing here, it's true, it's the government's procedure. However, those who buy paper from Kepez and Çukurova, such as small investors, bought it from the stock market, invested it. Now, small investors have nothing to do with it, they have no say in the administration, and they're victims of decisions made in the middle of the night the next day because the boards were closed. They have invested in the government, trusting in the stock market, without their responsibility, without their guilt, and have purchased the share of Çukurova (Dukurova) and Kepez (Barez). But if those companies were seized by the government for reasons that weren't caused by them, then these small investors shouldn't be victims. Thus, the situation of small investors, these small investors who invest in Kepez, and Çukurova (Kurkuova) must be put into a clause, an additive, a temporary clause, and the victim needs to be compensated. Otherwise, these small investors, who are not responsible for themselves, who are not guilty of anything, have been victimized, and I think it will hurt your consciences, too. That's why we're asking the Minister, and we're asking the Commission. I think it would be helpful to take some measures to compensate for the victims of these small investors. And I ask your high council to support the motions we're going to make on this matter. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0105par0302	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on Article 13: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 13th draft of the 337 Sequential Capital Market Law, which is currently in session. Article 1. It's a 2nd joke. We propose and supply to change the versions of the phrases in the sentence into the different versions. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bült Kuşoğlu Aydın Ajan Ayyadın Mustafa Serdar Soydan Kamer Young Flood Köse Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 13 of the 337 Numbered Legislature. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Halil Aksoy Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0106par0321	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0105par0322	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0107par0323	Don't we agree?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0105par0324	Yes, Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0108par0325	Mr. President, with these motions, we're trying to give you a little warning. Well, it's obvious, but... When you say global city, when you say it's going to be the financial center of Istanbul, you look there, what are bank assets, what is communication, what is transportation, what are the languages that are spoken of, what are religions, what are religion, what are crime rates, the concert hall, the cultural center, the museums, when you take the whole thing, you get the scale of globality. But, if you say, it's just a tax paradise, it's a fashion center, it's a tourist center, it's a port. If you say it's a global center, it's not enough. Because it doesn't already exist, a university in England -- I'm saying it's reduced -- says the GaWC, making a comparison of the financial sector and categorizing global financial centers: The cities of Alpha. It says, in the 1st group, London, Paris, New York, Tokyo. Then there's the 2nd group down there, Chicago, Frankfurt. Group 3 is coming. Beta cities. San Francisco, Sydney, Toronto. Then the 2nd group, Brussels. Then in the third group, Moscow, Seoul. Gamma's coming to the cities. In the 1st group, Amsterdam, Boston, Caracas, Dallas, Düsseldorf, Genoa, Houston, etc., Jakarta. He comes to the 2nd group: Bangkok, Beijing, Montreal, Rome. He comes to the third group: Atlanta, Barcelona, Berlin, Hamburg, and then Istanbul and Kuala Lumpur in the third group. I mean, that's the category of Istanbul. Now, look at this category and take the economy, growth, employment increase, international funding trends into a good account. What if you don't, brothers? I'll tell you, you'll be like Thailand, you'll be like Abu Dhabi. If you attempt to get Istanbul to do your quest to become the financial center of Thailand, Abu Dhabi, to become a global centre, without creating the infrastructure, you will officially turn Istanbul into Thailand. Look, in the early 90s, Thailand becomes a center of attraction, hot money flowing, liquidity abundant. Then, back in '97, growth starting with capital entry from '93 suddenly becomes a retreat, a deep crisis, a long recession, and a loss of reputation. He can't restore the reputation of a financial center that's lost face for years. Now, if you go through rapid installation, without creating infrastructure, without building legal conditions, without increasing the industry's efficiency, without solving the tax problem, without looking at what the growth of semantics is, without looking at institutional financial responsibility, without looking at the role of laundering, without investigating the risk, without looking at the origin of the title, as in Thai and Dubai examples, a country could quickly become an international financial centre. Istanbul may come too, but once it comes in, it's a political instability, a political instability, a instability in a foreign policy, instability in a democracy, instability in a law, instability in a justice, and a mistake made by that government, when those funds are drawn overnight, that financial center -- the end -- is dark, my friends. Now, with this Capital Market Law, we are dealing with the approaches of a government that has not learned from the example of Dubai, has not learned from the example of Thailand. We're warning you from here: don't be so fond of money. This country has millions, workers, people. Don't take their indirect taxes off their backs and attract them to foreign companies and banks. Here you see the People's Bank, with 80 percent capital, 23 of 48 banks are foreigners, and 36 of them have capital in 12 of them. The People's Bank has entered, they've entered the Parliament, they've entered the Parliament, they've entered the same bank as your salaries, they're headed towards the financial center of Mashallah, they've started from Parliament. I'm just saying, God knows where we all end up. Our proposal is valuable, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0109par0336	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 13th draft of the 337 Sequential Capital Market Law, which is currently in session. Article 1. It's a 2nd joke. We propose and supply to change the versions of the phrases in the sentence into the different versions. Aydın Agha Ayadın (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0110par0343	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0109par0344	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0111par0345	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0109par0346	Yeah. It's the Flood Köse, Corrum MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0112par0348	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to share with you the speech sent by Republican People's Party MP Mustafa Balbay. Mr. President, members of parliament, to share with you the point in the Ergenekon case, which the public knows the name but does not know the details, Silivri No. 1. Lu Prison B-3 lower ward No. 1. I've made a promise from his lu cell. I can tell you what happened to Ergenekon's case, which was scheduled to begin the decision process on December 13th: Imagine a special prosecutor's group gathering the files of all lawmakers present in parliament. Think of it as an indictment against the alleged crimes committed by these MPs by an organisation with which they are all members. As the most important evidence of this, imagine that even if lawmakers do not speak to each other, cell phones are shown to signal from the same cell tower. Imagine that even a traffic crime is involved in the indictment as part of the organisation's goal to create chaos. Congressmans, I don't do black humor. My example makes more sense than the Ergenekon case. 20 indictments have been brought together in this case. Each of the indictments was filled with inconsistencies within itself and defendants who had nothing to do with each other. It's a huge pile when it's fused. In the past, many cases have remained unsolved or closed, were also brought to Silivri, thinking that they could be connected. These include more than 100 cases, from the events of Kahramanmarash to the sunken banks. The volume of this stacking case is 120 million pages, along with the evidence, the additional folders, the trial transcripts. If a person starts reading this, they can finish 100 pages a day in 3,200 years. None of the witnesses and confidential witnesses who were supposed to make the allegations clear. Yes, I know that there is a terrorist organization called Ergenekon...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0113par0361	Mr. Köse, Mr. Köse, Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0112par0362	Over there, he did this. He didn't say. On the contrary...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0113par0363	Mr. Köse, just a second, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0112par0364	..who witnesses have made the allegations more complicated by saying conflicting hearings.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0113par0365	Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0112par0366	Mr. President, the time...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0113par0367	I know, but... Article 138 of the Constitution is very clear.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0112par0369	When the assistance of confidential witnesses weakens...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0113par0370	I'm just saying, for the record.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0112par0371	..some of them testified with an open identity. This time on the case...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0113par0372	I mean, talking about a case like this, the Constitution...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0112par0373	Mr. President, a prisoner MP sent me a letter he couldn't speak from the stand in his own voice, and I'm reading it. What's wrong with you? Please...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0113par0374	Yes, sir, he's in the report. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0112par0376	▪ This time the shadow has increased on the case. I think the simdin Sakek example is fresh in your memory. Most of the digital data on the case is controversial. At a point where everything was mixed up, but nothing was illuminated, the prosecutor has requested to prepare a debate on the basis. The court agreed to this and gave me until December 13th. But the procedure is the opposite. The head of the court will make this request from the prosecutor. We don't even know who actually runs the trial. This painting is not the cleansing of Turkey, but the pollution of the law. At the end of such a process of lawlessness, the decision will tie another knot on all the events said to illuminate. During five years of trials in Silivri, all charges were released and defence limited. Those who were forced to defend themselves were banned from the hearings. Congressmans, this case also covers the indictment that the Justice and Development Party is involved. I invite the ruling party to carry out its interim duty, to understand the extent of the legality of the trial. This case is also shaped by the claims of Mr. Shamil Tayyar, member of the Justice and Development Party Gaziantep. Some of the defendants have testified against Tayyar. I invite Mr. Tayyar to testify, to see how much the case and the connection is between the defendants, which he claims to have been carried out. This case coincides with a period in which the study of the Commission for Research on Impacts was concluded. Since all claims of coup are being brought to light, Mr. President Nimet, I urge the Prime Minister to take the Ergenekon case into consideration, to investigate and report whether the trial was carried out according to the actual law or in accordance with the law of the coup. Members of parliament, special officials courted last July have been removed with the third judicial package approved by the President in several hours, and the Ergenekon case is still under way. Opposition parties have been looking at these courts with suspicion from a long time ago. With the crisis of the MIT on February 7, 2012, the government also participated. He realized that these courts didn't distribute justice, that they destroyed justice when he touched the end of it. I'm asking you from this bench, how are we supposed to trust the court that this country's ruling party doesn't trust? In Turkey, the issue of justice has become a serious wound that has exceeded Silivri limits. Anyone representing the world's leading legal institutions, including Mr. Shinil Karakaş, our member judge in the European Court of Human Rights, is breaking Turkey's judicial note. Congressmans, I salute and salute you all with the longing for the days when I can address you from this bench in my own voice.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0114par0385	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the 17th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Capital Markets Bill 17th, 337 rows in sight. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Günal Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan Sumer Oral Article 17 - (1) In public partnerships, procedures and principles regarding institutional management principles and the content of institutional management integration reports are determined by the Council of Directors for the degree of publication, the compliance of partnerships with institutional management principles, and the accession of the independent board of directors. The board uses these powers in light of the principle that equal rules should be applied to companies in equal conditions, which will not result in unfair competition between public companies. (2) The Council is authorized to require public partnerships, whose shares are processed on the market, according to their qualifications, in part or fully complying with the principles of institutional management, to determine the procedures and bases of this, to seek precautionary action against the law, or to seek protection from all guarantees or annulment, to seek a decision on the basis of compliance in the open case. (3) A board of directors must make a decision that determines the basics of the process before public partnerships begin to take action that will be determined by the Convention with its associated parties. (4) Public partnerships can also meet their obligations in this article and through the electronic environment provided by the MKK in Article 1524 of Law No. 6102. (5) The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this clause on public banks are determined by the appropriate opinion of the Banking Editor-in-Chief and Control Board. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0115par0404	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0114par0405	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0116par0406	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0117par0407	Mehmet Günal...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0114par0408	Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP, demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0118par0411	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, this is the principle of corporate management. First: Article 2 of the Article 2 of the Commission of the Capital Market is granted a resensal authority. Here, of course, we've told our friends that even though no time has been given, there is a sign that is beyond purpose. In this case, we think there could be victims. First of all, we believe that there will be some problems if the authority taken from the (2)th joke is taken, even if the warrant is not granted. It'll be fine if it stays the way it was before, the original version of the bill; it was added later. In addition, on our criticism and suggestions, our friends added the 5th joke on the Banking Editing and Control Board, but we think there may be difficulties in implementing the third joke about banks. We've put in a motion for a change for him. Since this proposal has already been partially taken into account, our friends have added the opinion of the BDDK, but I still -- Mr. President here, and Mr. Secretary here -- as your friend with a corporate management license, as an expert in the matter: This is something that can prevent the functioning of that bank, if it is malicious. If the number of independent auditors is large, and they have to make a majority decision, we may face a result that can, in turn, lock on his work and decision making. For him, I think these problems should be completely cleared up. In this framework, I say that the motion for amendments will be considered, that the partial arrangement will not cover the problems, and I give all of you respect.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit04spe0119par0418	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 8 that I'm having read... Since the motion has just arrived, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0119par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 34th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 337. The commission and the government are in place. There are one motions on the 18th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 18th annual draft of the 337 Sequential Stock Market Law. Article 2 of the Article 2. We propose and supply to change the multiplicity in his joke to be more than. Haluk Ahmet Silver Aydın Agha Ayadın Kamer Young Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Refik Eryılmaz Aytun Çıray Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0120par0012	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0119par0013	You don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0121par0015	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0119par0016	Kamer Young, Tunceli MP, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0122par0018	Mr. President, I have made a motion regarding Article 18 of Capital Market Law 337. My respects to all of you. Dear MPs, of course, today, I mean, the Turkish National Assembly commissions don't work properly, nor does the General Assembly work properly. Now, according to Article 35 of the Civil Code, the commission cannot offer the law itself; it is a very clear decree. They added a temporary nineth item in this Capital Market Law brought in, the Stock Exchange Istanbul Anonymous Company. They brought a seven-page substance with one temporary substance. They're building an anonymous company, how to build it, who will provide the capital of it, all of which are being arranged in the same substance. The purpose is to silence the Turkish Parliament, prevent further discussion, which is why such an arrangement is being made, so I think the Parliament is no longer serious with the AKP. The commissions don't work properly, the General Assembly doesn't get proper texts, and the arrangement for that is no good. Now, dear lawmakers, last week I was in Tunceli. There are two important water sources, two valleys: one is Munzur Valley, and one is Plum Tea. It's a beautiful nature, rare valleys in the world. These valleys are particularly Munzur Valley national parks; none of the investments that should be made to this national park have been made so far. They are also trying to build a dam to destroy this beautiful Munzur Valley and the Valley of Pülmur, the Tunisians who live there. And they're out there trying to destroy the world's unprecedented vegetation. From time to time, our friends there sued. The case was partially accepted by the State, but recently, along with the AKP government, the judiciary has no independence, so this time the judiciary has ruled against it. I would like to point out in particular that I am warning everyone that no one will ever come to Munzur Valley and the Valley of Plumur and build a dam in any form. When he does it, he pays very hard. I'm reminding them now. So don't let them get hurt the day after tomorrow. Dear friends, in Turkey... of course, we don't always have a chance to talk, so we're just passing through. Now, Recep Erdogan is coming out, calling those fighting in Syria the freedom fighters. Look, a day or two ago in Syria, these freedom fighters he called the freedom fighters killed 29 students and one teacher. So, is there any difference between those children they slaughtered and the massacre of Palestinians? I ask this deaf government: How long will you keep them in Turkey when 150,200 thousand Syrians arrive in this Syrian province? Are you going to pay for these? That's all we have back home... where are you gonna get the money for this? They need to come out here and explain it to us. So we're saying here, the government is deaf. There's no difference between a deaf government and a government. I asked you earlier in my speech. So, when the Russian President arrived, he was searched by dogs brought from Russia to meet him in Istanbul, to meet him in the name of the government. So this isn't the biggest blow to the dignity of the Republic of Turkey? I mean, would that happen? Haven't you ever felt ashamed? I'm ashamed. A citizen of a state like this, like me, a state of the Republic of Turkey, they're all ashamed. Is that a thing? So, sir, he's going to give me natural gas. Or he's going to give me some advantages. Can we sacrifice that much of our dignity and dignity? Again, look, the President of the Russian Federation didn't even get in the car in Turkey, he brought a car from Russia. I mean, he didn't even eat in Turkey. Don't these give you anything? So, Recep Tayyip Erdogan can't humiliate this country so much. Recep Erdogan's arrogance stems from your support.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0123par0024	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0122par0025	No matter how arbitrary I act, no matter how corrupt...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0123par0026	Mr. Young... take your words back, please, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0122par0027	...there's a group behind me. Yeah, well, sassy's not a bad thing, honey. What are you doing there?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0124par0030	You can't insult the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0122par0031	Is it bad to be spoiled?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0124par0032	Edit the hand movement!
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0122par0033	Sassy is an adjective.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0124par0034	You can't!
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0122par0035	And don't get sassy over there, just sit still, don't... don't... don't... don't... don't... don't...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0124par0036	Please arrange your words.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0122par0037	Now, here's the thing, so...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0125par0038	That's enough!
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0122par0039	What are you talking about? He's spoiled, isn't he?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0125par0040	That's enough! We're gonna listen to you!
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0122par0041	Does the law know? Does he know the law? Is there a law in the country? Thanks to you, everything was destroyed. A moment ago, here, about the court, a friend of ours said something, you're saying, sir, you're talking about the constitution. What constitution is that? Did you leave the constitution, you put them all under your feet? (Applause)
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0125par0042	They're booing you back home!
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0126par0043	You have no manners.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0122par0044	He's obviously not in your hometown. (Applause)
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0127par0045	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 19 that I'm reading: We propose and propose that the 19th article of the proposed bill be changed in the following way. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Turhan Tayan Aydın Aghadın In addition to the capital increases of public partnerships, the current shareholders are self-inflicted due to funds added to capital, according to Article 462/3 of Turkish Trade Law 6102. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0128par0056	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0127par0057	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0129par0058	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0130par0059	Motive...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0127par0060	I'm reading the reason: The Law No. 6102 is being adopted. Yes, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 24th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 26 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 26th edition of Capital Markets Law Bill 337. Article 2. We offer and propose that his joke be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Günal Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan Sumer Oral Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0131par0079	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0127par0080	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0132par0081	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0133par0082	Motive...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0127par0083	I'm reading the reason: The bill's obligation to make a payment is 26. Article 2. In the joke, the number required to call for a share is raised to 50 per cent. In 1994, the concept of a mandatory call was first identified as 35 per cent of the threshold that had entered our law with the SPK Declaration and produced the mandatory call. Less than two years later, the threshold, which gave birth to a mandatory call in 1996, was reduced to 25 percent. In 2009, the mandatory call threshold was raised to 50 percent for no apparent reason. This ratio means the actual removal of the mandatory call to the small investor as a right. On the other hand, by a victim in a similar situation, with the request to halt and abort the procedure, which has been denied both the relevant SEC Declaration and the request to organise a mandatory call. A lawsuit has been filed in his apartment, and it has been decided by the relevant agency to halt the execution of the notification provisions, which are based on both the process and the process. The Court of State's Court of State, which has discussed the objection to the decision to stop the execution, has lifted the decision to stop the execution. His office is expected to decide the nature of the case. In the decision to stop the administration, when the relevant SEC Declaration has been made clear that it is against the law and the fundamental decision has not yet been made, is the SPK intending to save the foreign company by making its laws against the law? The concept of the people in the text of the article is a completely hollow and vague expression, defined in relevant notifications by an open or closed agreement, written or verbal agreement. On the basis of this statement, it is impossible to suggest that even spouses act together. It is unknown how the closed covenant will be proved, and how the oral covenant will be determined. In this case, they themselves will not be proved unless they say, "Yes, we are acting together. " In this regard, the concept of those who act together must be explained in clear sentences, as in the EU countries. Otherwise, this statement will have nothing to do with small investors. As a result, small investors will be victimised and their rights will be lost in order for foreign capital to arrive. Thus, the joke must be removed from the article text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 30th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in chapter one have been completed. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second part includes Articles 31 to 56. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the second chapter is Sumer Oral, and Manisa MP.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0134par0098	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The bill has four basic grounds. One is the product of a pairing project for pre-accession assistance from the European Union. The change in this sense is related to the integration process of the European Union. The bill was drafted by reference of a capital market legislation that is still in crisis and is essentially needed to be renewed in the countries of the European Union. A new financial architecture is designed in the European Union and the United States. Therefore, it is likely that the law will have to change again sometime in the process of harmonisation with the European Union, because it has been paired with a reference before the crisis and the first period of the crisis. The other reason for the bill is the result of the new Turkish Trade Law, which is viewed as more of anonymity law reform, a bill based on some kind of obligation. Finally, aside from changes to the Public Enlightenment System in 1992 and changes to the second market mainly in late 1999, there is little concern that the government has not made a major change since 1981, or that the government, which has often pronounced behind the bill, has reached its 2023 target, making Istanbul a financial centre. In addition, the bill was not prepared with the same concern that it puts the Istanbul Stock Exchange and Turkey into the category of developed countries from the rising markets. Speaking of which, I'd like to go over two points. The first is about the goal of making Istanbul the global financial center. See, the Global Financial Center Index is an index that is produced by a consulting company called "Z/Yen Group" of London and follows the ranking of 75 global financial centers. The index is called the Global Financial Center Index. It was first published in March 2007, and then updated every six months after that. 77 global financial centers are evaluated and ranked by two different data sets. Let us also remember that Istanbul is still a financial centre, even if it is far behind, but in this new ranking in September 2012, Istanbul was ranked 56, and last year it was in the 61st ranking, or rather six months ago. It would be a very important, joyful development that Istanbul is a leading financial centre. That's what we want, but not by writing on paper. Infrastructure, especially technological infrastructure, tax legislation is extremely important, trust must be provided, no regression in legislation and government positions, and first of all, stability must be taken. The second issue is the 2023 target. The 2023 goal is really Turkey's goal and is also part of the Eighth Five Year Plan, one of the main points of the long-term strategy, to get to the top 10 in the world's economic league. According to this goal, however, this is Turkey's goal of 2023, which could be between $2 trillion in revenues, $25,000 per person, and the first 10 countries. You know, if we take the 17th place, we have a lot of countries ahead of us, and even if we ignore some of them, we have to leave Canada, Spain, Australia, South Korea behind. But considering the economic performance of the last decade that we've left behind, and the growth rate now, the savings rate and the current account deficit, someone has to get up there and make it very clear how we're going to achieve that goal over the next decade. Only with the new incentive law? And I'm guessing there's no way that that's going to happen, and so do many of our fellow ministers, who are in economic management, and they're slowly expressing it. Mr. President, if we return to the bill, let's begin with the following assessment that some of the arrangements brought into the bill already exist, the law, the regulations, the institution's decisions and the notifications. The most remarkable aspect of the bill is that it gives the board vast powers in almost every article. Although that was the case with the existing law. It is, unfortunately, an important problem in our process of making laws, avoiding authority and responsibilities, and giving administration broad powers by leaving it to secondary legislation. It's basically a kind of democracy problem. I'd like to say that we can understand that given such broad authority to the Capital Market Board to appoint secondary legislation because of the specificity of the field of duty. On the other hand, we have to accept that the bill was written with an audit perspective and thus showed more sticks. And if the bill had given priority and weight to a perspective that would have left incentives, facilitating processes, initiative for capital market institutions without compromise from corporate management principles, I think it would have been more accurate. The bill envisions significant changes in capital market crimes and punishments compared to Law 2499. The law includes information abuse, market fraud, market manipulation, covert profit transfer, illegal public supply and unauthorized capital market activities, abuse of trust and fraud and information and prevention of audits and legal books, accounting records and financial tables and reports of irregularity and administrative fines. And the fact that these were brought in was extremely positive. First of all, as I pointed out in the Plan and Budget Commission, it was perfectly appropriate that state debt bonds had begun to be registered by the central registering agency before the bill was passed, and that it now became transparently monitored. Thus, the corruption of government debt, as in the past, is now in the history of history. Mr. President, the final reason for the bill, unfortunately, is the privatisation of the new stock exchange, combined with the Istanbul Stock Exchange and the Istanbul Gold Stock Exchange. We don't know what to expect from here. However, we do know that the Istanbul Stock Exchange still has very large and very valuable land in Assınye. This land will be transferred to the TOKI. So, what's the TOKI gonna do with this land? ▪ Will it be associated with Gulf capital and plant new skyscrapers and residences on its logic? Probably, yeah. But wouldn't it be more appropriate for this land to be merged with Emirgan Grove and to be dedicated to the public's need for open air and park? What kind of urbanism and environmental sensitivity is the effort to transform every gap in Istanbul into a commercial area? Look, Istanbul is a relic of our history, and let's not forget that we have to act accordingly. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0135par0112	Thank you, Mr. Oral. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Akif Hamzacebi, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0136par0115	Mr. President, in the event of the adoption of the bill we have discussed in 1981, Capital Market Law 2499, which has been in effect for 31 years, will be lifted. Law 2499 is a September 12th law that has held the capital market for 31 years. So in the military era, it was released at a time when democracy was suspended, but for that period -- because it was implemented for 31 years -- it was a very advanced law, and it led capital markets for 31 years. Of course, the needs of the economy, the needs of institutions, the needs of companies, the needs of investors are changing, and the laws are getting old. To be able to respond to new needs, of course, the laws must be changed, renewed over time. We're discussing a bill that was designed to act on that need. The reason for my initial emphasis was that the laws that led capital markets during September 12th were clearly not laws designed with an understanding of a military term. Look, there were other laws and regulations at that time. On October 6, 1983, Article 90 of the Law on Borrowing Moneyworks, Article 91, Code of Law on Stock Exchanges of Trusts. That's when the foundations of the Istanbul Stock Exchange were laid. Maybe it went into operation later, it went through 1985, but the arrangement for its establishment is the regime of September 12th. The view of the 12 September regime's arrangements for a period in which democracy has been suspended is far ahead of the government's view of the Istanbul Stock Exchange. Now the coupgers are on trial, but the government is in power, making arrangements that put the market in second place, that don't listen to his voice, even more than the arrangements in September 12th. The Istanbul Stock Exchange consists of 1 president and 4 members of the board of directors until a decision was passed on November 2, 2011, last year, and the General Assembly of the Istanbul Stock Exchange appointed members outside the presidency. So the brokers were assigning private sectors, such a liberal understanding. Last year, with a decree issued on 2 November 2011, the government couldn't stand it and raised the number of board members, including the president, to 7. I'll be the judge, he said. In Article 9 of the bill brought in, the Istanbul Stock Exchange is being redesigned, the board of directors is being restructured, the shares are being rearranged when the relevant clause arrives -- but the government maintains the same understanding, and I will appoint this administration. Taking the Istanbul Stock Exchange out of the market so much, taking control of the government is against the way the world goes, it's against economics. So for 31 years, what flaw has been seen in this institution because of the appointment of administration by the private sector, and what error has been seen? The government presents this as a subcommittee of the Istanbul Financial Centre Project. This has nothing to do with reality. The Istanbul Financial Centre Project is a real estate project, a tender project. Istanbul is a financial centre for economic policies applied directly to the truth; Turkey is a matter of economic credibility; it is a matter of creditability. If Turkey can attract capital, it can be a center of attraction for international capital, Turkey's economy and Istanbul itself will be the financial centre. Now, the Istanbul Securities Stock Exchange is being converted into the Borsa İstanbul Asş. It's not clear what the reason for this transformation is. I mean, why is the government doing this? Yeah, all over the world, the stock markets are turning into an anonymous company, and it seems to be adopted by the government, and there's nothing wrong with that. The stock market can turn into an anonymous company, there's no hesitation, as the Republican People's Party, we find it positive to turn into an anonymous company. But what's the point of turning into an anonymous company? It's got to have a purpose, a philosophy, a place to sit. We'll privatize it in the future. If you say so, privatisation alone is no reason to turn the Istanbul Stock Exchange into an anonymous company, no goal. So I'm privatizing the stock market with the privatisation goal. If you're saying it's wrong, you're doing it wrong. We'll privatize it, we'll convert it into an anonymous company. When you privatize it, it means that the buyers -- in the process of consolidating markets that are now very few in the world -- are under the umbrella of another international stock exchange group. If that's what you're aiming at, it's wrong. That's what privatisation alone is all about. No, our stock market is going to become an anonymous company, and it's going to be an ambitious market in the international markets. If you say so, I'm going to -- I'm going to -- I'm going to -- I'm going to -- I'm going to cross this bill, I'm going to -- and I'm going to turn it into an anonymous company, and the Istanbul Stock Exchange is going to be a small, local stock exchange, just like it used to be. That's probably the target. But there is one goal, which is very clear: you continue your operation on 2 November 2011 by turning the Istanbul Stock Exchange into an anonymous company. You control the board, you control the government, it's wrong. You give 49 per cent of the shares to the treasury, you give a part of the remaining 51 per cent of the total capital -- if we accept 100 per cent -- you give 4 per cent of the total capital to media institutions, you give it to some small institutions -- you give it to the Gold Stock Exchange, you give it to the Future Trade Exchange, but there's no time to privatize it. So the government will be in control of the Istanbul Stock Exchange forever. There is another difference in the past, and I must not forget to say it; the Istanbul Stock Exchange is subject to the control of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the past, the Supreme Control Board was overseeing, and now the Court will submit the audit results to the CIT Commission according to the new law to oversee them. You also eliminate this with the interim 9th Article (8). I mean, I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, I have no intention of accusing anyone, anyone, but with this structure, it's a new farm of the IMC government, that's the arrangement. If you don't put some corporate control mechanisms in here, if you're destroying what's there, if you're leaving them for the good of the people, the rulers, this place can't be saved from being a farm, it's going to haunt this place. It's an extremely wrong arrangement. The stock market is lacking in this arrangement that led to the release of control and privatisation of its shares for any time. We need to feel a strategy while we're putting in time, and we need to see it. Dear lawmakers, aside from the non-allocation of the İMKB subsidiaries to the Stock Exchange, the stock exchange building in Ankara, we have established that others should be assigned to the Ministry of National Education as Republican People's Party. The current bill envisioned the assessment of these premises by the TOKI's hand, and we expressed that it was wrong. Mr. Secretary has made positive assessments. If these opinions do not change until the bill is passed, these movers will be registered to the treasure and assigned to the Ministry of National Education. This change is true, but the consideration of the issue of control and the control of the CIT Commission, as it used to be... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...of course it should be kept. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0137par0128	Thank you. Ertugrul Kürkçı, Mersin MP who has asked for the Peace and Democracy Party Group to speak on behalf of the department.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0138par0131	Mr. President, dear friends, the law we're talking about wants to bring together all the stock markets that exist in Turkey and put an integrated, total market process, capital market process into Turkey. In fact, we can say this: Turkey will provide a legality for the largest casino it has ever met and will direct and run it by public hand. Now, the word "honey house" can, of course, make people angry immediately, so what kind of casino does a whole religious government run? Now, of course, Karl Marx had said a long time ago that what you call "Borsa," in fact, is that people are going to invest in the future plus value, so that they know what they're putting in, but they never know what they're going to get. Now, of course, this Marx is a communist, and you don't like it, but there's someone you're going to love, Joseph Stiglitz. This is one of the most important advisors of the World Bank, the World Bank, to the economic plans of our government. Let's hear him out. He says that the stock market can actually be seen as a forum for which individuals trade risks, and capital can affect opportunities to increase capital, but eventually it's more of a casino than a new source of resources. Because there is never any capital at this casino; only 25 percent of the new money, which is often wanted and wanted, is obtained through the stock markets. All the rest are derived from other processes, or direct meta-producing processes. So the fact that he's been inflated by the media lately makes the stock market look like something. But if we put together what both Marx the Communist and Stiglitz the marketer said, what we're going to say is that the stock market is a casino where imaginary capital, which has nothing to do with its actual production processes, has nothing to do with it. When we say imaginary capital, we mean capitalization of property ownership. I mean, there's real property here, but there's no real money. Under the circumstances, the capital appears to have multiplied itself two times, three times, but since its relationship with the real metas has not changed, it presents it with an inflatable, called the balloon. Those who think they're making profits from the circulation of imaginary values, generally think they're profiting from it in the moment of a capitalist rise, the day the crisis emerges, they'll see how they've actually fallen into a big trap. Not only Stiglitz, but Roubini, one of the New York University academics, a consultant to the United States government, said that the stock market was really the source of the crisis. Because for what we just said, based on the circulation of imaginary capital, it's a mechanism that leaves poor classes so poor that when they're faced with the sums that they need to buy their own products, goods, metas, they have to reduce their production, bring workers out workers, lower profits, lower stocks as the workers bring them down. The result of all this activity is the major capitalist crisis, which has been the world market since 2008, where the world's capitalism has not been able to come out of its vortex. Now, as a remedy for this capitalist depression, the AKP government thinks it can achieve real resources by running all capital markets in Turkey under its own control as an opportunity. Now, when we evaluate this painting, it's obvious what we see. In fact, during the first period of the AKP government -- in 2003-2006 -- a 7.8 per cent growth was actually achieved, but during the 2007-2011 period, growth was only 2.7%, 4.7 per cent in the entire period. This is, in fact, a little bit of growth, a growth that is far from meeting the true needs of Turkey. Now the hope is that if an affordable capital market can be established, there will be a lot more hot money coming in from the outside, but what you call hot money is actually debt. In the end, by increasing debt, by turning to debt to pay off the debt, you think you can get out of this process by deepening the gap that makes the economy what you call a current fragile. But what does our argument, our conversation, have to do with the workers? Most of the people living in Turkey have never been in front of the stock market, not once have they bought stocks, and none of them, in fact, have anything to do with banks other than being stuffed into bank credit cards; they are completely out of the production area, or when they enter this area, they enter only with their sweats, they come out with a lower salary than the sweats they spend. Thus, these people have financed Turkey's capital shortage of bourgeois for 90 years since the republic was founded. Now, so it's ridiculous to go up against them like it's something, to talk about it. Because today, when we look at unemployment rates in Turkey, it stands somewhere in the middle of the world average. The percentage of national revenues reserved for private consumption decreases from current prices to 71 per cent from 66 per cent to 21.7 per cent from 22.9 per cent. So in fact, except for a small minority, this system can't provide real capital growth, nor can it produce meaningful results for poor classes to find jobs, food, shelter. As our deputy, Fair Wolf, has demonstrated in his criticism of this bill, we are opposed to a mechanism that is the source of the depression of world capitalism today -- which is completely wrong in the entire law -- to present an imaginary capital production process as a creative tool, to mislead the masses, to make this casino look like some kind of commercial business, to show us that this casino is an illusion, that it has nothing to do with trade or with the values that will be created in the future. We're looking for the wealth that's going to come out of the real labor processes, the real production processes. This is an economics and a political operation that is set up by a handful of moneyholders, a bunch of money, and it is not possible to get out of here until the capital is terminated. Of course, it's not something that can be achieved from today to tomorrow, but by openly opposed to these policies, our unions, our workers, our workers, our peasants, all our employees can clearly stop this going on. We will not vote for this law. We don't want a big, wide, tech-enhanced casino in Turkey, we want a real production and real development.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0139par0143	Thank you. Haluk Ahmet Silver, Balıkesir MP.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0140par0146	Mr. President, with this bill, the SEC is granted a wide range of powers. With more than enough power in the bill than it should be, the ruling came with motions in the subcommittee to further increase the authority of the SPK. One of the main issues in the bill is the regulations that will result in the reduction and exclusion of the bank's movement areas in the capital markets. As opposed to the size of the economy and the ability to meet the needs of the public and other companies, the proposed issues regarding banks that are so important should be carefully examined. The government, as always, ignores and ignores the warnings we give for very good reasons. The Capital Market Law Bill provides the SPK with excessive powers and does not define the responsibility and criminal investments required in return. So the SEC has the right to do everything, and even if it makes mistakes, it is not clear how people will answer. When a crime is committed in the capital market, whether it is guilty or not, the bill that makes everyone disappear into a hoop with the materials that hold the agents responsible does not define criminal responsibilities related to the SEC. With this bill, independent members assigned to the executive boards of companies can, if they want, lock up the boards of directors for arbitrary reasons, make the company not working. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to share with you a table in the subcommittee negotiations of the bill. We, as the Republican People's Party, have come to our attention to differences between the Union of Banks, the Association of Mediators, the Central Bank, and the SEC, which are of great importance. The bill was brought to the commission before the ideas of these institutions were properly evaluated. What's more severe is that differences of opinion point to the fundamental differences between the Central Bank and the SEC. The state device, which has been broken for years by the government's efforts to take over and govern institutions, has now become an alarm. The AKP members of those selected for the ombudsman today clearly reveal the issue. The state device is still being politicized in all areas. This is a well-known matter. While the AKP's people have jobs, interviews become impenetrable castle walls for other candidates. But we also know that there is another conflict within the government, the ruling party, and the institutions. This conflict is between the forces supported as the government is established and other institutions of the government. In short, while the government fills the government with sidelines, it creates its own basic cracks. The same painting is happening and is happening in institutions related to the capital market. While you are abandoned one by one by one by those who are set out together, I would like to remind you that the global policies of the great supporters outside are changing. Each institution strives to take power over the other. This has become more extreme than ever since today's rule was ruled over institutions. The AKP is entering its most difficult period of time with its so-called mastery period, with its non-existence of foreign policy, recession in the economy, contradictions in domestic policy. The bill we're talking about is not a bill in the public eye. The strike ban, which has been imposed on the 137th article of the bill, also shows this. The government wants to ensure that workers who work in capital markets, who have never had a strike, will not strike after this, so it passes this clause on the bill. So the government expects these employees to strike in the coming process. It seems that the few remaining state institutions, particularly the IMCB, are also wanted to be privatized. The strike ban on the Capital Market Law Bill says that in terms of privatisation, the IMC is already a measure of power against the response from its employees, and I warn the employees about that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0141par0156	Thank you. There will be a question-and-answer procedure on the department for 15 minutes. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0142par0159	Mr. President, thank you. Now, in Malatya, you know, we have two organized industrial areas, and Malatia is a province that has been using incentives very accurately for years. Now, there's a law that was issued in 2004, number 5084. In Law 5084, the provinces were given various incentives, but with the final arrangement, many encouragements were taken back. In recent times, the incentives for this insurance are said to be taken back. On December 31, 2012, they will expire. If this encouragement is not given to Malatya, I want you to know that perhaps the number of unemployed people 22,300 will be 50,000, 60 thousand. In addition, many people will not be able to employ insured workers. This is what I'm asking you to do, and I know that the request of fellow members of the ruling party, as well as the request of Malatya's public opinion -- we consider this arrangement of 5084, very important to Malatia, and we would be very happy for Malatya if you could review it one more time. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0143par0162	Thank you. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0144par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister: there is a contract of vocational training with businesses in vocational upper secondary schools. The 13th article has a charge and a permit section; the student is paid in accordance with the current age, not less than 30 per cent of the minimum wage, as long as his vocational education continues. He says, but we know that some vocational schools are not paid in some schools, but some have been paid in others. I'd like your opinion on that. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0145par0167	Thank you. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0146par0169	Thank you, Mr. President. Those who have previously failed to pay their debts for various reasons are blacklisted. I want to know if there's a ministryal study to improve the record of these people who have paid off their debts. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0147par0172	Thank you. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0148par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. Syria has finished Şanlıurfa, Mr. President. Do you go to the Glorious Animal Market in particular? We're always talking about the stock market here, of course, but there's quite a bit of trouble in the east. In particular, AKP MPs and Minister, do they visit the Sannliurfa animal market? The white feed went from $250 to $850. Every day, 1,000 to 1,500 animals enter the country from Syria, from our narrow borders, and from our borders, they are unknown. The feeders and livestock can't sell their animals, but last year, the animal's weight was 12 to 13 liras, and today it's 6 to 7 liras. The Agricultural Bank loans have been paid back, executions have begun, but the government is not interested in food, agriculture and animalism and the regional minister. Mr. Secretary, are you planning on stopping at the Sanliurfa animal market? Do you have any plans to support this? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0149par0179	Thank you. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0150par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, what is the amount of administrative fines imposed by the SPK in 2011 and 2012, and how much of that can be collected? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0151par0184	Thank you. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0152par0186	Mr. President, several times, thousands of families have been victimised by the failures of natural gas, such as electricity and water, as I have expressed in Ankara's TOKI dwellings, although they were finally delivered two months ago on the way to Eskişehir. These families are also expressing their problems by going to an association later this week, and they will announce their voices in a very serious action on Saturday. TOKI is very active and urgent inspections and whatever methods are needed to be established in their homes recently to address these growing problems. Families are extremely victimized. I submit to your knowledge of the tiny TOKI dwellings, and I offer you to take an interest in them and to make sure they're done.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0151par0187	Thank you. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0153par0189	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, in these past days, there has been a study of our Minister of Health and the Minister of Labor to buy public services in dental medicine. However, the study is said to have been delayed for a while due to lack of budget. During this postponement, 15,000 clinics, dentists, have come to expect something. We'd like your opinion on that, too, so there's a very serious expectation. It is said that the purchase of this service could not be bought for the economic reasons Turkey is currently involved in. I'd like your opinion on that.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0151par0191	Thank you. Mr. Moroglu...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0154par0193	Mr. President, thank you. Since 1964, the BMC factory, which has provided significant economic gains for both Turkey and Izwar, has been unable to produce it for months. With 2,500 workers and suppliers working at the BMC factory, we ask the government, the Izmirians to consider the financial structure and its problems with suppliers, and to make the necessary efforts necessary for the production of the BMC factory, which has left nearly 40,000 of our people in an economic difficulty. I expect your explanations on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0155par0196	Thank you. Mr. Kusoglu, last question, please.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0156par0198	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I also wanted to know the amount and volume of transactions on the Istanbul Gold Stock Exchange in 2011 and 2012. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0157par0201	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0158par0203	Mr. President, I would like to first state that there are some issues -- and there are also some issues in the issues mentioned by the speakers -- that are being considered as the real estate that the IMKB has now, which is divided into three groups: one, the building that the SPK is currently using in Ankara, that property; and two, the property where the IMKB is using its own facilities, and so on. We're giving him the facility where the SEC resides, we're again giving the IMKB (IMKB) to the use of the facility, and we want to allocate the others to the Ministry of National Education, especially for the purpose of education, for the purpose of the construction of elementary school, secondary school, high school, and for that kind of assessment of their income. We already have a motion on him, and you'll see him when that relevant clause comes in, and we've already forwarded his blueprints to the groups, so we're talking about three groups of real estate. So far, IMKB has always been used for education and school construction. And during this new formation, especially when the partnership structure is forming and the outside includes private sector partners, we've come to the conclusion that it would be appropriate for these extra real estate to be evaluated in this way, but we expect it to be shaped by the final decision of our great Parliament. In other words, I mentioned this European Court of Human Rights decision in yesterday's session. The decision of this European Court of Human Rights was a decision concerning ÇEAŞ and Kepez. It was decided that the ECHR had taken place as a result of the trial of its partners. As for the other issue, the statements that you can't be transferred here in the Law are for investment funds, housing and assets financing funds. These funds are being managed to evaluate savings collected from small investors, which is that the company that manages this fund, when it's in trouble itself, we're holding out of that institution's debt foreclosures, so that investors, small investors, savings, savings don't get hurt by that kind of possibility. Law number 5084, of course, concerns our forty-nine provinces. However, I said yesterday, how were these forty-nine provinces identified? One forty-nine counties, according to the previous socioeconomic development index, based on the 2003 index. We, you know, reassessed this whole index, again divided into six regions, according to the development index of Turkey, and set up our new incentive system on this. Therefore, it seems impossible for forty-nine provinces to continue exactly the same as this one. Now, our Ministry of Economy is working on this, and what can we do, is it completely removed, or is it partially continued in line with the new incentive mechanism, and I can't say anything about it yet because the work is going on right now. You said the blacklist was a blacklist for those who didn't pay their debts. You know, now that we've changed it to a record, we've changed it to a credit record, and now there's a positive and negative record. We've started this for checks and bonds, but it's going to expand, and each of our citizens will have a credit record. Of course, it is possible to use that information, to give it to the third party, with the permission of each citizen himself. In 2010 and 2011, the executive fine, which our Board has issued for collection in 2010 and 2011, is $2,331,674 lira in 2010 and $6,995,756 in 2011. The collection is being made by the IRS. How much of this has been collected? We have no information on him at the moment.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0159par0210	I asked for 2011 and 2012.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0158par0211	The data on 2012 didn't come in front of me right now, but we can look at it and tell it that it wasn't completed in 2012, so maybe there's only one partial thing we can say. In the first nine months, it was 1,456, 955, the first nine months in 2012. By buying services from these dentists, of course, you need to do a good account of that. And let me tell you, in most of these health insurance systems around the world, dental issues are an exception. So dental issues are not easily taken into account because they're very expensive, and with those premiums, it's not possible for most insurance systems to pay for them. But it's being worked out by our interests, it's being looked at, it's not yet a cost figure, but, frankly, I don't have the desire to raise expectations about it because we have to calculate the financial consequences of the implementation of an insurance policy in Turkey, which has almost never been implemented at all in the world, and then we have to get in if we're going to do it. Other than that, we had a question about TOKI's dwellings, which now had no data, no information. BMC, something we don't know about. So I think perhaps it would be more accurate to direct these questions to our ministries, perhaps to the Ministry of Customs and Trade, again to our relevant ministries regarding TOKI dwellings. Oh, and by the way, you know, we've had a lot of animal support, especially in recent years, so I don't have the numbers in front of me right now, but -- they've reached a lot more than they used to. They have credit opportunities, and they have different methods of support provided directly by our Ministry of Agriculture. In particular, the problem with bait has grown up this year, and food has also been implemented by our Ministry of Agriculture, along with our Ministry of Economics, in order to reduce the price of bait. In particular, steps about making it a little easier in customs and temporarily supplying cheaper bait from the outside have already been taken this year. The issue is being closely followed by our relevant ministries. Animalism is a very important business for us. Just as we are now the seventh largest country in the world in total agricultural production, we want to increase our power in livestock. And while we're doing that, there's also a policy that we've established a balance between making sure that our citizens get cheap meat, to get the right priced meat, but also to protect our producers. As for the transaction volume of the Istanbul Gold Stock Exchange in 2011, 195 tonnes in gold, 355 tons in silver, 254 tons in gold, silver 321 tons in 2012, and only as of October 1st. So I guess I covered all the questions. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0160par0220	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The material in the second section...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0161par0222	Mr. President, it's never been heard from here, there's a lack of sound order. Mr. Secretary is speaking, but I mean, the people next to him are just listening.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0162par0223	I wish you'd warned me once in a while, maybe we'd take precautions.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0161par0224	We'd like to hear from you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0163par0225	The talks on chapter two are complete.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0164par0226	Sir, we're pulling the motions on the first five.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit05spe0163par0227	Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. I submit Article 31 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. I submit Article 32 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. I submit Article 33 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. I submit Article 34 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. I submit the 35th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 36th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 37th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 38 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 39 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 40th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 41st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 42nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0163par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 34th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 337. The commission and the government are in place. There's a motion on Article 43, I'm having it read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 43rd draft of the 337 Sequential Stock Market Law. Article 1. We offer and propose that all of its jokes (b) be changed in the form of a whole. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Veli Ağbaba Mahmut Tanal Haluk Ahmet Güşkült Kuşoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0165par0012	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0163par0013	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0166par0014	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0163par0015	Veli Ağbaba, Malatya MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0167par0017	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. This is a substance that concerns investors. Of course, Malatya and Malatya are a city in Turkey where the most investments are rightfully made, where the Malatian industrialist uses incentives. As in every sense, Malatya is an exemplary city in this regard, a city that uses these incentives in its place when the first incentives are given to Malatya. Dear friends, the Law on Instigation No. 5084, now in effect in 2004, will end on 31 December 2012. When the law first came into force, the employers were given various supports, such as the SSC, the stopage, energy, but only the article on the government's payment of the SSC employer's share remained. Now, it's said that 31/12 will also be removed. If this item is removed, it will only mean encouragement to the unofficial, so this decision must be reviewed once more. I know my fellow members of the ruling party are uncomfortable with that, too. Now, those who don't win don't hire people with insurance. If the industrialist didn't win, unfortunately, the number of unemployed people in Malatya, 22,300, could cover perhaps 40,000, 50,000. If this Propulsion Act is cancelled, dear friends, it only encourages off-the-books. Once again, Minister, you are here, and I ask you to reconsider, on Malatya's behalf. Look, Malatya, it's not an Istanbul, it's not a Bigeli. In Malatia and similar cities, it's hard to be an industrialist in the east and southeast, it's hard to own a factory; it's hard to produce, it's hard to create jobs. You'll export what you produce, no way, you're far from the port. You're going to export what you produce, you're away from customs. You'll call Sunday, you'll be away from the market. Therefore, when people who produce in these conditions need to be supported in the east and the southeast, this tiny support that you've given only causes the economy in Malatya and so on to collapse. Now, with the last few digits, I'd like to brief you. In Malatya, during the nine-month period of 2012, the number of incentives that were rejected and cancelled was 12. Mr. Secretary, I'd like your attention on this one more time.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0168par0023	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0167par0024	Look, there's only 12 of them and only one of them canceled incentives. The total investment of these 12 documents is around 50 million. Without these cancellations, thousands of other people would eat bread in Malatiah. Now, if you do that, unfortunately in Malatya, the industrialists will have to remove their workers. You leave three ways in front of employers, dear friends. Each year, they will continue to produce thousands of pounds of extra cost, or they will run their workers off the record, or they will reduce their production, or Malatya will not be invested in. Look, the other day, I was with the industrialists of Malatiah, who produced in Malatiah on Saturday, and in Malatiah, and there were people from all sides. That's their only request: they want it to be done in parliament by having relations with lawmakers of other political parties, especially lawmakers of the ruling party. So they want to continue the insurance incentive for this worker in 5084. Minister, once again, on behalf of the Malatians, I ask you on behalf of all Malatians. We expect you to arrange that. The Malatians expect this news from the House. Dear friends, another thing I want to talk about is a problem in Malatya. There is an institution that has been privatized in recent years, TEDAS. Malatya found out how wrong this privatisation was. This is TEDAS... in Malatya, the electricity goes out and the company's alibi is that the Ministry of Energy doesn't invest enough, they don't renew our lines. Look, the peasant is poor. The peasant is forced, forced, borrowed, sold his cow to buy a refrigerator. The more the lights go out, the more those refrigerators burn. One of the biggest problems in Malatya is the current power outages. One of the biggest problems in Malatya is current electricity. In this regard, we ask the Ministry of Energy to invest in Malatya. Malatya... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Take away the impression, friends, that I don't want you to punish the most votes you've ever had, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0169par0030	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 44 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 45th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 46th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 47th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 48th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 49th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 50th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 51st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are one motions on Article 52: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is Capital Markets Bill 52, 337 rows in sight. Article 6. We offer and propose that his joke be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Günal Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan Sumer Oral Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0170par0049	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0169par0050	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0171par0051	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0169par0052	Anyone who wants a word on the motion...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0172par0053	Motive...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0169par0054	I'm reading the reason: Your bill is 52. In Article 6 of the article (6), it is also a matter of funding exporting foreign currency that allows the purchase-of-phone participation shares to be made by TCMB through foreign currency, which has been declared daily exchange courses. It is not a proper arrangement because it will cause a dispute between the Central Bank and the SEC, which is authorized to determine and protect the value of TCMB under the TCMB Law and the Order of Kambiyo and the 32-Nation Act. On our reviews, the opinion of the Undersecretary of TCMB and Treasury has been added to the joke, but it has been officially passed as a law that the exchange of foreign currency can be made. This could make it difficult for the implementation of currency and foreign currency policies. For these reasons, it is recommended that the joke be removed from the article text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I submit Article 53 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 54 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 55th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. On Article 56, the Commission has a request to amend it.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0173par0063	Mr. President, I would like to submit that the statement of Article 56 (7) in the subsection of the article (7) should be subject to a draft in the form of the original basis (9) in the article (9).
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0169par0064	I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. Now, let's begin the talks of section three. The third chapter covers the 57th and 81st articles. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0174par0069	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the third part of the capital market law, which is considered the fundamental law. I hereby salute the grand jury. The third chapter is seen to organise housing and property financing, mortgage financing agencies, rental certificates, property rental companies, independent control, rating and rating agencies, stock markets, the Association of Value Markets, the Association of Value Experts, central exchange agencies and the Central Register Office. The stock market talks about the target of a thousand public companies. By the time we arrived in the 2000s, we spoke yesterday about the number of stock companies that were 300. The majority of IPOs in three or four years are small companies that have recently been non-profit and institutional. During this period when the stock market gains value, many of the companies that have been opened to the new public are being processed below the price they are now being presented to the public. Investors are also suffering serious damage. The main reason the index rose to the level of 70,000 is because banks have been booming in profitability. The stock market index is rising due to overvaluement in the stocks of banks with high market value and weight in the index. We don't see that value in real business companies. The boom of profitability in Turkish banks is a clear indication that capital markets are not working well. Access to the banking sector is blocked by the government, and the profits of existing banks are increasing day by day in the market. Banks are protected by the government, new entrances to the sector are not allowed by external barriers. A bank company has been allowed to operate in the last decade, and the 2001 banking crisis is the reason for that. Banks sell money to Turkish people at 25-30 per cent a year, while the government monitors it, more than that, encouraging it. In short, banks raise money from the public by seven to eight percent and sell it to the public by adding three to four times. This incredible interest gain has not been recorded in history. Moreover, we see that this gain has not been pure, it has been going on for years. The government, which claims to have dropped interest, makes the final user, the household, pay the highest, highest, highest real interest in history. Members of parliament, where there is a banking system, there is no way for the stock market to develop. It is not possible in the current financial system, which has serious size and profitability in the real sectors, to be opened to the stock market. A thousand companies can be achieved in the current system, but without profit, they will damage the investor, making the Turkish stock exchange one of the most unreliable, risky markets in the world. It's very important that our strong companies come to the stock market and save money more effectively. Mr. Secretary, I really wanted you to be here yesterday. I've also made promises, mostly on behalf of my group, and I've spoken. You're not lighting up the Grand National Assembly of Turkey right. Where do you stand on the commission about the fiscal rule? It's in the transcripts. We've asked you over and over again, but you're avoiding us without answering. You said he didn't need it. You took a shoulder from two of your fellow ministers -- the Minister of Transport, the other minister, I told you here yesterday -- you gave up the financial rule. There's no need for financial rules, we're already doing other things. You said. As a result of what you're saying, the budget deficit of around $22 billion is now going to $32 billion, even though you've raised 10 billion. These are your numbers. What did that do to your credibility? Dumura did. It's a real pain in the ass. For one thing, I'm really sorry that you didn't answer that, because there's something you're saying about the financial rule very clearly, but even so, we've done something different, so we've given up on it. And if you're saying that the budget is in the square, it's very clear. You've changed the medium-term program. We offered the law. What happened? You got it in September, yet you announced it a month late. Look, everybody laughs at you all over the world: the Midterm Program, the middle-term fiscal discipline, the budget call, the investment scale of planning; you come in a week later, you present the budget. To whomsoever you tell in the world, they will laugh and shame you. Don't try to defend it in this Parliament, there's nothing to defend. It used to be four or five months later, so let's see, on the basis of the law -- even that's controversial -- you edited it, you pre-approved it, and we approved it -- you got it that early -- but you're still a month late, and it's not right for all four of you to conclude that the budget is being made real after it's published on the same day. But you can say that we've given the corporations pre-orders, we've given them dollar bills, we've given them growth indicators, we've given them our goals. What are they doing for him anyway? If you say that, you're telling the truth, but what do I do with you? I can't. Now, just a few days ago, you said -- yesterday was the day before -- that we consume a lot as a Turkish society. I don't know if I'm wrong. Now, he's got 10 million pensioners, he's got 10 million green card holders; you're saying that society consumes a lot -- as Deputy Prime Minister, you're co-ordinating the economy. No matter how you look at it, Mr. Secretary, there's nothing more to it than that. On the other hand, you've taken 2023 targets from other locations, using them. Come on, you've used it, but you're not using it right. In fact, the day before yesterday or the day before, when you made your statement, Mr. Cavalan said: "At this rate, we will not be able to catch it in 2023. Why did you pass it on to this nation before the election? In the sea, friends shouted, called, said, and expressed. The fast train was coming, the hospitals were coming, everything was coming, the ball field was coming. What happened? He goes everywhere else, but he doesn't come to Denizli? In 2023, they'll probably be a dream, with these investments. The friends there are having a real hard time explaining that. I don't think there's any point in putting them on the spot. After that, you're going to G-20. You're talking. That's right, you're discussing them. There's talk of a new financial architecture, but when we see this law, when we see this bill, what do we see as your understanding of the new financial architecture, the world, that you bring here? You understand as building a house -- I said yesterday, even, you're building a holy Manhattan. Or where did you go to the new financial architecture? You go to these meetings all the time, you see, but unfortunately, what do we see when we look at the new financial architecture there, where we, here, look at this SEC law, where you put these last-minute motions in the air, like the bag law? We think of it as building a house from financial architecture, getting a runt from there. Look, that industry is in a lot of trouble. Some of them were troubled in Istanbul. You have to share it with the community. Some of them made it clear that they were in trouble. There are real problems in this housing industry. Now, it's impossible to ignore them. When you look at the proportion of what you've built, what you've been building, what you've been building, what's being licensed, what's being done, what's being done, what's being done, what's being done, what's going on in the housing industry is very wrong and not going well. Look, he lived in the Far East, construction industry, housing problems. The United States lives, the whole world goes. But if you don't make a proper arrangement on this, Turkey will have huge problems when you look at the current figures in the housing sector. So you're going to say here: we're going to solve this with the SPK. You can't solve it, it's not right. You need to publicly explain to the public the state's private sector, the finances, the state's finances that you've given all the land to in a partnership. That's honesty, integrity, transparency. I hereby pay my respects to all of you. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0175par0082	Thank you. Oğuz Oyan, İzmir MP who has asked on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0176par0084	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are based on the internal dynamics of the capitalist system. They have emerged in the history of today's advanced capitalist countries. Stock markets in developing countries or less developed countries are more artificial institutions, more demanding institutions. The function of the stock markets is essentially centralizing funds in the first plan -- small, medium-sized capitals -- is the kind of centralization that big stocks can use in these stock markets -- companies that come in here, companies that open to the markets, in a sense, are centralizing capitals that have been accumulated in various parts of this community. It's also selective with a value loss process because it has to be discussed as well as how much profit is in return for these centralized funds. Of course, the difference between the assets of companies that are being processed in the stock markets and their stock market values is also found as part of the value loss process. In fact, the stock markets have another function, a field of competition between companies, among capital groups, of struggle. In fact, in developed capitalist countries, stock markets are a hunting ground, where they can function as the means for the possession of a certain company. This, of course, is not seen at this scale in countries where our kind of stock markets -- family companies -- are in control, stock market-opening rates are low. In the world, after 1980, after 86 in Turkey, through privatisations, the stock markets were claimed to have capital depth, and in this sense, the example of England is interesting, and there have been a great number of confederates. When you look at the example of Turkey, you see that a $46 billion privatisation has been made since 86. Only 3 per cent of it has been processed, sold, 16 per cent of it has been processed as public supply, so most of it has been judged by bloc sales and so on. Another feature of stock markets like us is that in developing countries: these markets are low -- shallow markets, processing volumes are inadequate, and these stock markets are very easily subject to capital control, especially in countries that make important external disclosures, and as in Turkey, foreign capital represents the important part of the transactions in the stock market. So here, now, it's a far cry from reality to establish a placemental union and establish a financial centre with administrative decisions in order to make Istanbul a financial centre. It's really remote because when the stock markets aren't built with their own internal dynamics, they stop spinning and they don't develop depth. It's particularly difficult in foreign countries, but with some patches, there's no way you're going to be able to get any depth on this, including the Golden Stock Exchange, the Future Processes and the Optional Exchange from Izmir. In fact, it is really an operation to force the Stock Exchange to join the IMKB -- which, in a sense, is now established -- in the new name of the Stock Exchange -- with the dynamics of Izmir. A 440 billion-dollar trade volume of $3 billion per year appears to be an appetizing aspect of a stock market, but it has been a huge injustice to İzmir (Izmir) and is actually carried out with the 9th temporary substance added to this injustice. The numerator of the 6th (b) joke of this article is determined to be the value of what they have, as the proportion of the share of their share in the Future Process and Option Exchange, which is multiplied by 5 percent of the stock in the EC. That's not enough. Smyrna's demand was to end this difficult buy, but now at least it's to be corrected at 8%. When this comes up, there will be motions. Another issue, while the judicial and tax weapon has been used by the power so far, while using the judiciary as a weapon, while using the tax as a weapon, is now, as in the operation to seize the Izmir Stock Exchange, the SPK is being transformed into a dukeship, a dukeship of the SEC is being created with extreme powers -- and BİASS -- is the Stock Exchange becoming a new weapon of government? That's the basic question. So, for example, with this new structure of BİAS, like Islamic conglomerates, will it be able to go after corporations that abuse money, cheat money, or, on the other hand, will it intervene in the capture of some institutions, as a means of pressure on companies or equity groups that don't pledge to them? These are very basic questions. Of course, the other thing is that he's out of control. On the one hand, you'll call the 49 percent share of treasure, but on the other hand, you're going to miss an institution where the capital is public, you're going to be subject to the control of the Supreme Control Board, you know, and now you're going to take it out on the Court, and you're going to make it an area of horseplay, as long as you're not privatizing the other departments, at least as long as this process goes on. In addition, the age of land for this TOKI is a similar challenge. Of course, there's another thing: a strike and a lockout ban that will result in ununion. So the introduction of such a strike ban on the stock markets is the introduction of an application that really doesn't exist in any democratic country in the world. This strike ban is against ILO contracts. In some sectors, ILO decisions on how to limit strikes are not among the markets, banks are not among those service groups. This also violates Article 54 of the Constitution, or Article 54, which regulates the right to strike. And I'll tell you something else: just a few weeks ago here, the Union and collective contract of employment was adopted. While this law was adopted, the stock markets, for example, were not counted among the non-responsible sectors. I mean, what happened? What happened? Now, with a number of unique laws, you go to applications like adding new sectors -- as in Turkish Airlines -- to add new sectors to the list. So once again, I would like to point out that this kind of ban is a manifestation of a working enemy, an enemy of organization. The addition of the interim nineth article, which is really the most important clause of this bill, to the bill, which is added at the last minute, without even being discussed in the subcommittee, the fact that it has been kidnapped from even the ruling party MPs, shows what kind of legislation is actually valid here. So this kind of legislative activity -- which supports a large part of the opposition party -- has reservations only in some articles -- shows that we are facing a new example of the AKP-style legalization logic, where opposition parties' opinions, proposals, contributions are not taken into consideration at all. In this regard, we have to continue here to warn power, to invite power to the truth. I hope the government, the government, will learn certain lessons from this. Thank you for your concern.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0177par0097	Thank you. Mustafa Şahin Malatya MP.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0178par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a personal pledge on the third chapter of Capital Market Law Bill 337. I salute your high council. Serious changes and improvements are being made in the financial system of the 21st century. In this changing and developing system, when the criteria, such as market capitalization, the size of the stock transaction, are taken into account, it appears that our country is among the emerging markets and has a significant potential for development. The global crisis, which has been under way since 2008, has led to a significant loss of confidence in the global capital markets, while the eyes have been transformed into emerging markets. It's clear that our country manages the crisis better than the emerging markets. With the crisis, the importance of transparency and strengthening the activities of financial institutions and market regulators has become even more understandable. Dear friends, in today's economic climate, the improvement of legal infrastructure in light of new developments aims to bring capital markets to a rapid development and to the extent that they can compete with the world and lead if necessary. There are two things intended in the bill. Although the new law may come into detail from time to time, it should actually remain a framework law. It is also the giving of the authority to organise secondary regulation that ensures the flexibility needed for markets. Dear friends, the draft strengthens corporate management. In this way, the capital determines the control-responsibility relations and the basis for the difference between the fundholders and the people who run the capital. With this arrangement, the dividends and donations will bring new regulations for the substantially qualified transactions, and the institutional administration will be strengthened. Companies show the flexibility to act in line with financial structures and investment plans in the interest of profit. Also, the right to leave, the right to cut and sell will be revised, in accordance with today's needs. Some of the articles needed to be explained by the draft and the new Turkish Trade Law have been redacted and thus the gaps of the Turkish Trade Law have been removed. If you look at the innovations and changes brought with the bill in general, changes can be listed primarily under the headings of investors' protection, capital market tools, exporters, financial reporting, independent control rating and assessment, means of capital market activities, instruments and self-registers, institutional investors, audits and market offences. With this bill, some innovations have been made to protect investors, instead of the Fund for Protection of Investors, the Investors Retribution Centre has been established to carry out this function. Among these innovations is the approval system for exporting capital market tools and public supply explanations; a new declaration arrangement is being brought in. With this bill, which aims to move a renovated and developing country among developed markets, for the first time, legal infrastructure has been established for the establishment of markets as an anonymous company, allowing our country's stock markets to work in a more competent, effective way. The most important change in this scope is the arrangements for the creation of investment funds only by portfolio management companies. Mr. Minister, in particular, our speaker friend had just had a request regarding Malatya -- because of 5084. Malatya, it's really one of our best areas of service. We have never been deceived by a province... our Malatya, in the last decade, our industrialists, our businessmen, in particular, who are used to selling money to a group of people who are used to doing business, and especially under pillows... by encouraging the vast majority of our people who think they're under a pillow... by encouraging our incentives, by the industry point of attraction, to our province, which is the center of attraction, especially 5084, to our jobs, to our businesses, to this day -- for the sake of our jobs, for the sake of our industry -- for the sake of our jobs -- for the sake of our jobs -- for the sake of our jobs -- and for the sake of our jobs again. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Again, I wish the law to be a blessing, with respect.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0179par0111	Thank you. The question-answer process will be done. Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0180par0114	Mr. President, Egypt has appeared in newspapers where Turkey, first -- a statement that Ali Babacan will help the press -- two billion dollars, and then there has been another broadcast about the $1 billion aid being made. How much help did Egypt receive? In what part of the budget was this done, and on what grounds? If Turkey has a budget, it should be in the budget. That's my first question. Second: Now, a large number of people from Syria have taken refuge in Turkey, and have found 130,000. Now, when these people find 300,000, 500,000, will Turkey accept them? What part of the budget are they being helped by, how much money? There's this international immigration thing, and why is it that the United Nations is not getting help from the U.N., about things like this, about things like this, about international events, but it's being covered by the budget in Turkey? That's what I want to know first. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0181par0117	Thank you. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0182par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we attended a hearing today. Six months ago, 13 medical students were taken from their schools for meaningless, absurd reasons and arrested. During a period of six months, these children failed their exams and failed their studies. As a result of today's trial, we've learned that these children, these medical students, have been released, we're pleased, but who will bring back six months of these children whose brains are shiny? Who's going to pay for all this damage to our country? Don't these people have a conscience? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0183par0123	Thank you. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0184par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, what are the IPOs from the Capital Market in the last five years, and how do you assess the consequences? So these IPOs over the last five years have been successful? At the start price, what was the next course of these things? What kind of positive or negative assessment do you make when we make a final assessment? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0185par0128	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0186par0130	Thank you. Mr. President, you know there's a historic process going on in the Middle East and North Africa; many countries are involved in a democratic transformation process. This transformation process, which began in Tunisia, then spread to Libya, Egypt, and other countries, is in a different way in each country, and a unique transformation process is at hand. This is a process of democratization and at the same time, an economic transformation process. We support all of these countries in both political and economic reforms, whether it's Tunisia, Libya, Egypt, Yemen, and we provide a certain amount of financial support. The financial support we provided Egypt consists of two pens. One, $1 billion; this is a loan from the government to the state, and we've paid $500 million in October, and we're going to pay $500 million in January. These are numbers from budget funds. We have also signed an additional $1 billion loan agreement, which will be used in Egypt's infrastructure investments via Eximbank and will be exported from Turkey during the visit of our Prime Minister in Egypt. The sum of these two billion is a loan of 2 billion. We now have nearly 140,000 guests from Syria who have escaped the regime's pressure on our country. The last time I looked at it a few weeks ago, the cost for it had reached 280 million TL. This includes numbers that local governments have done, because we, local governments, if they're spending something temporarily, we're giving them that price again. Of course, what the future figure will be is the challenges in Syria, and how long the massacre in Syria will continue. We, the government, provide all the support we can in this difficult time for our neighboring Syrian people. On the outside, unfortunately, we haven't had any significant help so far. So far, we're mainly paying for these expenses from our own budget. It's an assessment of the public supply, so it may require a long study, but now, let me make a few brief things clear: Now, first of all, we think the amount of success in these IPOs is good. Thanks to these IPOs, our companies' financial structures have been improved, our companies have been directed towards new investments, they've produced new jobs. We have less market shortages in global markets. So prices may not reflect true values in the short term, but let's not forget that wherever we look in Turkey, in the last few years, there has been a significant increase in the number of public companies. Starting in 2009, I began to take a close interest in the issues related to the IMKB and the SEC, and what we called our friends at the time was that we're going to work together on this job. Despite the fact that the SEC does not have much work, thanks to our SPK president, the SEC took the bag around Anatolia, and the mayors of the province, the IMKB made the same effort again, and now that maybe the stock market has no idea, maybe I'm too young to say what I have to do with the public, our medium-dimensional enterprises are now paying more attention to the IMKB. Of course, with this legal arrangement, we think that interest in the Stock Exchange is going to increase not only from Turkey, but from all over the world, because we want it to be a market for a very large geography, not a stock market for Turkey. In 2023, we want to make one of the world's top 10 most important stock markets in Istanbul, and we believe that from Frankfurt to Singapore, Istanbul has very few competitors. If we do the right things today, if we set up the right ground today, this bill will be very, very useful to Istanbul's goal of becoming an international financial centre that we really want. Another issue is about these 2023 targets, the subject Mr. Ayhan was talking about in his speech. In order to achieve their 2023 goals, we have to work very hard, we have to do structural reforms, and with today's industrial structure, with today's labour market regulations, it seems very difficult for us to achieve our goals in 2023. Therefore, we must continue by implementing structural reforms -- which are already in our program at this time. If we don't get those structural reforms done in time, then 2023 targets could be at risk. You know, the bill for the financial sector outside of banking, which the Grand National Assembly accepted two weeks ago, this Capital Market Law bill, all of these, in fact, are some examples of structural reforms that we'd like to achieve in order to achieve those 2023 goals. In Turkey, we specifically stated that consumption was very high in 2010 and 2011, and we also took measures about this -- you already know that. We believe that production and consumption should be proportional in Turkey. It's not up to our economic programme to consume, earn without merit, create artificial prosperity by being in debt. So starting in 2010 -- you know -- we've taken a very effective measure of internal consumption with the restrictions that we've imposed on the loan volume of banks. In fact, in this year's year, in 2012, our growth of internal consumption is almost zero, so our growth is an external demand-based growth. This has already been an important arrangement that brings our current deficit down and the balance sheets of our banks to continue with better health. In 2013, however, we will see some domestic demand within the growth process, which is obvious in our Central Time Program. So in 2012, maybe the domestic demand factor in growth wasn't too much, but in 2013, we're predicting an increase in internal consumption in 2013, with a little bit of domestic demand involved in that 4 per cent target. We've already done our schedule accordingly. As for the central-term program: you know, since 2008, the world has been going through extraordinary times, and what's important to us is the creditability of middle-term programs. The mid-term financial plan, which was published behind mid-term programmes, and again the budget, the budget for that year, is supposed to be fully consistent documents, and we didn't want to bring our mid-term programme into its final form until we completed our work on the 2013 budget. First of all, is our 2013 budget realistic? Where do we create the income-go balance, which measures we can take this year, which ones we can take next year? After bringing all of this to a certain point, we returned and completed our Midtime Program. True, there may have been some shift in the calendars, but look at the developments in the markets from the day the Central Future Program was announced. So, after the announcement of the Central Future Program, the interest has gone down dramatically in Turkey. Turkey's credit rating has been increased by an organisation. As of today, the Istanbul Stock Exchange has reached a historic record level. The treasury's debt interest has dropped to the lowest point in history. I didn't get the numbers today, but yesterday it was 5.72. The interest of Eurobond, interest, which the treasure exported yesterday was only 1.6 percent higher than the interest of the American treasury. Imagine if you were to borrow 30 years forward, the American treasure -- its own money -- is stuck to pay its debt; even though it is our current deficit, although we have a foreign currency deficit, in the debt on the exchange, in the 30-year debt on the U.S. Treasury, there was a $1 billion debt on just 1.6 points yesterday. So, in general, from the point of view of stability and trust, I actually think that the issues that come into this agenda should not be considered very important. I think I answered the questions. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0187par0146	Thank you. Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0188par0148	Sir, Libya was given $300 million in a bag. Ali Babacan said, "We gave this 300 million dollars in the bag." I want to know who was given it to, who was it given to Libyan authorities, who was it delivered to in the bag, and I want to know the name of it. Does he have a receipt? How did you get this $300 million? Did someone put it in your pocket, in Turkey, or was it given to you? I want his certificate, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0187par0150	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0189par0151	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, there is a rumor that our government is preparing to stab the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures. This is heard to be practical preparation. It is said by some media that this scalpel operation -- the changes that have been played on TMMOB -- is being said to have been done by the assumption that some projects have been blocked, that the Izmir highway, the Galataport (Galataport), or even the urban transformation has been blocked. Is that true? Do these games on top of the Turkish Chamber of Architecture Engineers have reality? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0190par0154	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please. We only have a minute, please complete.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0191par0157	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll give you a quick answer. Now, you know Libya, in the most troubled period in Libya, when all Libyan assets were seized for international sanctions, we opened a loan of close to $200 million. More or less half of this is cash, half of that is the same loan. However, just after the release of Libyan assets, today's Libyan administration paid back the entire loan that we had used that day with interest. As of today, we will not receive a single penny from Libya. So we've collected all the loans we used at the time with interest. Libyan reserves of about $100 billion are now at the government's disposal, plus $60 billion more, still have frozen assets. We expect him to be released next semester. Thus, our contribution to the reconstruction of democracy and state institutions in Libya, which we made during that most cramped period of Libya, has been very supportive, and we have all of our money back. The fact is, it's not something I'm interested in. So, I can't make a comment. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0192par0161	Thank you. Talks on chapter 3 have been completed. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the third section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. I submit the 57th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 58 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 59 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 60th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 61st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 62nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 63 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 64th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 65. I'm going to read these proposals in the same context and then I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the release of the declaration of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provisions of Article 65 (9) in the statement of Article 65 of the Capital Market Act, which is held in 337 rows. Nurettin Canikli Ahmet Aydın Ayşe Nur Bahçapılı Osman love Look İdris Şahin Mehmet Doğan Kubat The signatures of the other motion are: Alaatin Yüksel Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Kazim Kurt Kamer Young Gürkut Acar Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0193par0186	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0192par0187	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0194par0188	We agree.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0192par0189	Mr. Hamzacebi, I have a promise on the motion...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0195par0190	Motive...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0192par0191	I'm reading the reason: The management bodies of the markets established as an anonymous company are also intended to be determined by their basic contracts in accordance with the Turkish Trade Law. I'm reading the other reason: The management bodies of the markets established as an anonymous company are also intended to be determined by their basic contracts in accordance with the Turkish Trade Law. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 66th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 67th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 68th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 69th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 70th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 71st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 72nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 73 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 74: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 74th annual Capital Markets Law Bill, 337 rows in sight. With the title of the article, we propose and propose that it be changed in the following way. Mehmet Günal Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan Sumer Oral Turkey's Association of Outside Bank Financial Institutions (1) In accordance with Article 37 of this Law, those who are deemed eligible for investment services and activities and institutions operating in capital markets and financial markets have to apply for membership in the Turkish Capital Markets Association, which is a legal institution of public identity. They are obliged to submit the necessary application within three months of receiving the authorization documents. The activities of non-responsible organisations are stopped by the board. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0196par0218	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0192par0219	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0197par0220	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0198par0221	Motive...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0192par0222	I'm reading the reason: The upper board, co-ordination board and unity inflation lead to uncoordinated co-ordination. Our commission has envisioned a single union of three types of financial institutions based on our proposals. While it may seem sufficient in this first phase, the institutional structure will remain incomplete until it is completed with an arrangement for the capital market companies said to be drafted. A structure that will be covered by all non-bank financial institutions. The association of non-bank financial institutions must be formed, and financial institutions, along with capital market institutions, should operate as subsidiaries, such as financial rental, factoring and financing companies. But right now, as with the restructuring of the ministries, it is being edited according to the individual or the existing conjunctural. High units are being formed according to the interests of the SEC and the BDDK. We're in favor of the MHP meeting the upper boards under one roof, in the form of the Supreme Council of Financial Markets. The BDDK, TMSF, the SEC, we find it more accurate to establish a Financial Markets Supreme Council and to form apartments under it. In this framework, we think it would be more useful to form a unit that will gather all financial institutions under one roof so that coordination can be assembled in one place and more active activity. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0199par0227	Mr. President, I want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0192par0228	I'll call. All those in favor, all those in denial. Since there's been a disagreement between the clerks, I'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there is a sufficient number of decisions and the clause has been accepted. There's a motion on the 75th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 775 of Article 7 of the 337 Capital Market Law Bill, titled the organs and status of the Turkish Capital Markets Association, shall be reorganised and redacted as follows. Nurettin Canikli Ahmet Aydın Ayşe Nur Bahçapılı Osman love Look İdris Şahin Mehmet Doğan Kubat Turkey's Capital Markets Association's Organs and Status Article 75- (7) The Union is audited by the Council every year. The procedure and the basis for the control of the Union's operations and accounts are determined by the board. An example of the audit report conducted by the board on this coverage will be sent to the relevant Ministry by the end of the sixth month of the year, following at the latest. The relevant minister is also authorized to oversee all operations and accounts of the Union, as the SEC can ask to take the necessary measures in order to ensure that the Union's activity is in line with its purpose. The decision made by the Union's authorities can be contested by the Council within ten workdays following the notice of the decision. The decisions made by the board regarding the objection are final. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0200par0244	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0192par0245	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0201par0246	We agree.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0202par0247	Motive...
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0192par0248	I'm reading the reason: The amendment in Article 7 aims to determine the procedure and basis of the Union's control of all transactions and accounts by the Capital Market Board. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the 76th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Association of Turkey's Value Experts of the 76th Article, titled Turkey's Value Experts Union of Capital Markets Act No. 337, shall form statistics on property values across the region and across the country and propose that the statement of literature be removed from the draft text and added to the same clause as the eleventh joke. Mehmet Doğan Kubat from Nurettin Caniklı Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı Osman Love Look Emrullah Business Article 76- (11) The Union is audited by the Council every year. The procedure and the basis for the control of the Union's operations and accounts are determined by the board. An example of the audit report conducted by the board on this coverage will be sent to the relevant Ministry by the end of the sixth month of the year, following at the latest. The relevant minister is also authorized to oversee all operations and accounts of the Union, as the SEC can ask to take the necessary measures in order to ensure that the Union's activity is in line with its purpose. The decision made by the Union's authorities can be contested by the Council within ten workdays following the notice of the decision. The decisions made by the board regarding the objection are final. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0203par0263	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0192par0264	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0204par0265	We agree.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0192par0266	I'm reading the reason: The release of the statement in Article 76 of Article 5 (5429) and co-ordination of Statistical production from a single centre of Turkey's Statistical Productions and all institutions and institutions involved in the Turkish Statistical System were intended to produce quality, quality, current, reliable, objective and international standards, and ended the production of qualitative data. The change aims to prevent multi-headness in the production and publication of statistics. The amendment with the added joke aims to determine the procedure and basis of the Union's control of all operations and accounts by the Capital Market Board. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on the 77th article of the same nature, which I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We submit and propose the release of the declaration of the provision structure and organization structure, which is included in Article 77 of Article (1) of the Common Market Law Bill No. 337, which is currently held in the 337 rows. Mehmet Doğan Kubat from Nurettin Caniklı Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı Osman Love Look Tülay Kaynarca The signatures of the other motion are: Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Kazim Kurt Kamer Young Alaatin Ascension Gürkut Acar Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0205par0285	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0192par0286	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0206par0287	We agree.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0192par0288	And since the reasons are the same, I'm giving you one reason: The management bodies of central trade companies established as an anonymous company are also intended to be determined by their principal contracts and authorities in accordance with the Turkish Trade Law. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. In accordance with the motions accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 78th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 79th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions on the 80th article of the same nature, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of the declaration of the Article 80 of the Capital Market Act, which is listed in Article (1) of Article 80, to the structure of the administration and organization. Mehmet Doğan Kubat from Nurettin Caniklı Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı Osman love Look Emrullah Business Tülay Kaynarca The signatures of the other motion are: Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Kazim Kurt Alaatin Ascendant Gürkut Acar Kamer Young Does the Commission agree with the motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0207par0308	We appreciate it, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0192par0309	Government?
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0208par0310	We agree.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit06spe0192par0311	I'm having them read the reason because they have the same motive: In accordance with the Turkish Trade Law, the management bodies and the organization structure of central storage agencies established as an anonymous company are also intended to be determined by their principal contracts and authorities. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 81st article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The votes of the substances in the third section are complete. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-12-05sit07spe0192par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 34th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and put to your votes: At the Council's 5.12,2012 meeting, the following proposals were approved by the General Assembly. Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peace and Democracy Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. It's recommended. Congressmans, I submit the Council of Counsellors' proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, the Council of Counselling Council on the meeting schedule of the Central Management Budget Law in 2013 and the Central Management Computation Act in 2011 have been adopted. Members of the Council who wish to make a statement on behalf of their individuals on the budgets will be registered by members of the Presidential Court's clerkship in the Republican People's Party group hall from 11 p.m. to 11.15 p.m. on Thursday. Not every member of the United States has to make a written record, not on another person's behalf. Other than the specified hours, the lyrics will be made by the President of the Laws and Decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, please report to your information. We will continue the talks of Bill 337. [[Continue]] Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked sixth, and the Co-operation Area between the Government of Turkey and the Government of the Egyptian Arab Republic of Egypt. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked 7th in the Afrikaans Development Bank Foundation Agreement. Commission? No. It's been postponed. On Thursday (December 6th 2012), the decision to discuss draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order is scheduled to be held at 2:00 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
