tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 120th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during that time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes' time. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Aydın MP Ali Uzırmak. Here you go, Mr. Longhorn.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0002par0016	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, thank you very much. Dear friends, running the state is an important responsibility, and government management with trial and error methods, such as a puzzle board, has, of course, become a trend in AKP's nine and a half years of power. Now, a big-city vavela has been fulfilled, but the AKP, which says that they are democrats, wants to go into the city without consulting the citizens -- the city or the whole city -- but what's really important here is the definition of a big-city -- by putting people behind a word of magic, and not knowing what it brings to the public, it wants to apply it to the whole city. Dear lawmakers, this is a violation of human rights and democracy above all else, because the implementation of the entire city brings a number of burdens to the public in a multi-directional way, while the promised ones are at large compared to those taken away from the people. Look, 36 municipalities will be closed in Aydın. Within this thirty-six district, the population has reached 15,000, more than 10,000 municipalities have six municipalities. In addition, the municipality of other municipalities is in a position to serve the public there. You're closing down six municipalities in the county area, removing 36 municipalities, and unfortunately, you're doing a very wrong thing here. New pen taxes are being placed on citizens, as taxes increase by 100 per cent, both losing the citizen's municipality and in the integrated city, until they reach citizens living in the village and citizens living in the centre of the city. The citizens don't know anything about this. As taxes increase by 100 per cent, there is only one deception, as new taxes are imposed on citizens, that when you become a city, you will receive 2.5 per cent of the income from the budget, a number of services will come to you. Very valuable MPs, how to discuss the capital city, why the whole city; with its exception. The council must also participate in this long-term debate here. Look, valuable lawmakers, during your nine and a half years of power, you've passed the Turkish Trade Law here, and you want to change 50 articles before it's even implemented. You passed the Violence Act in sports, five months later a change was asked and made. In national education, in nine and a half years, he was connected to the motorist. Until you reached other areas, you entered some of the discussions before you could even master the regulations. Mr. Prime Minister says that we brought special authority courts, but now we're complaining. You've changed the Public Contraction Act 30 times. I've done it without any responsibility to rule such a country. I put taxes on a citizen's back and made you a great city. I've made you a great city by saying, "The welfare level of a citizen is not increasing, citizens are not enriching by giving a rich name to the poor, dear friends. He's a peasant in the big city. If he saves the person who lives in the capital city, he'll want to take the roof of the village out of the village's mujavir area, when the integrated city practice comes, from wastewater, from the waste tax, from the property tax, from the increased construction fees. In this regard, I would like to stress the importance of this: a referendum should be held in the cities of the city, the public must be informed, and the outcome of this referendum should be obeyed. In Europe, some cities, such as Amsterdam, Rotterdam, have rejected the application of the capital city. The goal in the city is to ensure the integrity of the plan. There's no point in defending the integrity of the plan in a whole city... until we reach the village of Buharkent, from the village of Kirazlı, in the village of Buharkent. But there's a cunningness here; the citizens' taxes are up 100 per cent and plus pen taxes are going up, the central government is trying to get new taxes from the citizen, and I'm giving you 2.5 per cent of that back when you're in the city. It's a false practice, and even his ladyship is here... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...Mr. Hasan Celal Güyük Bey has written in the newspaper: Mr. Prime Minister, there are some disturbances from Diyarbakır Metropolitan City practices in Southeast.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0003par0027	No one's bothered, it's a full-fledged city. Let's get a committee and get out of here.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0002par0028	What's the point of taking Turkey to a different place by creating a new city municipality and causing problems when we have these problems?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0003par0029	You speak without seeing Diyarbakır. Come, let's go, let's have some company.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0002par0030	Yes, we're uncomfortable with the Diyarbakır Mayor's applications. He will be a mayor who has absorbed the citizenship of the Republic of Turkey. He's not going to make any junk food statements like that. The branch won't make the shrill explanations. If power can't answer, I'm answering...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0004par0031	Mr. Longitude, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0003par0032	Better give with power.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0005par0033	He won't call the state's prime minister a scoundrel.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0006par0034	He won't make that statement to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey. I may be an opposition MP, but he won't make that kind of statement. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0007par0037	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. The second non-responsive statement is from Balıkesir MP Ayşe Nedret Akova, who wants to talk about the province of Balıkesir in the province of Balıkesir. Here you are, Mr. Akova.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0008par0042	Mr. President, we have reservations as the people of Balıkesir that Balıkesir is the province of Balıkesir, just like my friend, the People of Aydın MP. My fellow lawmakers, Balıkesir, as you can see on this map, is a province with its borders on the Sea of Marmara, its sides on the Aegean Sea. Marmara Island is 100 miles [100 km] from Balıkesir Province. Again, sir, our town of Altınova is 138 kilometers from Balıkesir. Why are we showing this map? We say that 892 villages and 34 cities will be closed in Balıkesir. Altınova, Akçay, Altunoluk, Küçükköy, Edincik are our cities that deserve to be the district. There are already demands on this issue. Therefore, we say that the opinion of the people and Balıkesir (Bokesir) in order to become a municipality of the capital must be taken with the referendum. It's in the newspapers, and the locals are always objecting about it. They say, Mr. Prime Minister, that the city of the bay cannot be closed. Altınova, Küçükköy, Pelitköy, Karamağ, Büçükdere, Kadıköy, Oliveli, Akçay, Güre and Altınoluk cannot be closed. For that reason, Balıkesir may be a city in the capital of a city. What do you do? We're not against the fact that it's a capital city... with a compass on the frontiers. However, we are opposed to the fact that the city is a whole city based on the calculation of its borders. This time, our 34 districts are closed. Both our patchage zone and our own bay area are definitely against it. It is imperative that democratic mass organisations and public opinion be taken, and that the locals be informed. There are some very important issues that need to be discussed. Is the growth of the population enough or not enough to achieve a status on this issue? Are the laws within planning sufficient or not? If every city has a capital city, does it get a share? When you become a city, do problems get solved, or do they get higher? Don't we have cities that don't have big cities that solve problems better? Don't we have cities that can't solve their problems even after we're in the big city? It is not possible to resolve this issue within the narrow horizon of some political and economic expectations. As part of Balıkesir's plan to build a holographic city, studies to connect the cities of the Gulf to the municipalities of the district have caused unrest in our cities. In winter, it is against the idea of serving tens of thousands of locals, valued lawmakers, who serve hundreds of thousands of vacationers, including hundreds of thousands of homes and tourist facilities, to be shut down. The desired application will increase the cost of service and reduce the quality of service. In this context, we say that the city's property limits in the city's district limits are also bordered by the city's municipality, and the municipality of the municipality where its municipality is located is bounded as neighborhoods. There are no villages or villages in the area. We also have objections to that, and we say that they participate in the first-level municipalities with neighborhoods or neighborhoods that have been removed from corporate personalities. In this regard, our local municipalities are closed, and the district municipalities are connected as neighborhoods. I believe that there should be a thorough examination, a referendum, and the opinion of the people of Balıkesir, the people of the Gulf. We are against the province of Balıkesir being a whole city. There may be a major city about to be a compass border, including Balıkesir headquarters, but as the city's municipality, we have objections to taking the entire province into the scope of the city. I offer this matter with your utmost appreciation and knowledge. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0009par0052	Thank you, Mr. Akova. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Mr. Ali Ercoshkun. Here you go, Mr. Ercoshkun.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0010par0057	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I begin my words, I salute and cherish our beloved nation, who are watching us at the head of the General Assembly and the screens. Between Ankara and Istanbul, a small but natural beauty, with forests, with lakes, with the Abant, with the Sevengöl, with the Kartalkaya, but most importantly with the wonderful human fabric, a province Bolu, with a potential. I'd like to share with you some recent developments in our forest-covered Bolu, which address 50 per cent of the white meat sector in Turkey, with 9 districts, 4 towns and 500 villages, including some of the latest developments in tourism, especially in nature, sports, thermals and belief tourism, which have a real potential in all majors, 65 per cent of our forest-covered Bolu. Dear friends, today is an important day for Bolu because Bolu, a province with such great beauty, has so much potential, is organizing for the first time in Ankara. It's 12 o'clock today. By the end of the week, we will continue our opening days at the Ankara Ataturk Cultural Centre until Sunday. I'd like to invite all our friends from here to this important day when all the good things Bolu have been offered and all the riches have been met in the heart of Ankara, in the heart of Turkey. Dear friends, in our Bolu, I remember once again the late Izzet Baysal, whom you all know and know, with respect and gratitude. The most important of all the foundation works that a person can receive from birth to death is the University of Abant Izzet Baysal. In addition to the school of dentistry, which we laid the foundation on as a fruit of your successful work over the last year, I would like to give the good news of the four faculty approved this year to our fellow citizens: the faculty of theology, the faculty of communication, the faculty of technology, the faculty of agriculture and natural sciences. Avant Izzet Baysal University, which currently has 23,500 students, is an important step towards raising this student capacity to over 30,000. I'd like to thank all the friends who have passed the job, especially our chancellor. As a result of the successful work done by our government, it is possible to view every corner of Bolu (Bulu) as a construction site. The TOKI, which we laid the foundation two weeks ago in Cyprus, has continued to work in Seben, Göynuk, Bazarköy, Gökçesu, Taşkesti, and Mudurnu. In the coming days, hopefully, we'll be facing new groundbreaking ceremonies against our Bolulu countrymen. In the district links routes, the tender for 31km of the road to Göynuk, which has not been dug in the history of the republic, is complete, and the work continues at its final pace. In the same way, the road between Cyprus-Bolu, Seben-Bolu, Mudurnu-Abant, the road between Stonecati-Abant again, the roads belonging to the highways at Mudurnu Hill Station have been invested in investment programmes, and the tender works continue in that sense. The damworks on the watering of Cyprus, Seben, Fourdivan, and the magnificent agricultural areas of Göynuk have also continued with recent groundbreaking ceremonies. Likewise, at the end of this month, we will perform the Kitchen Festival of Cooking, which now cost the world, not Turkey, at the end of the month, hopefully at the end of the month. It is possible for us to see the health care that all the communities are truly satisfied with in Bolu. In this sense, we will establish the foundation of hospitals in Göynuk, and Mengen, this year. Hopefully, we'll also have the foundation of a hospital if the municipality's work is completed. Sports tourism, a very important foot in tourism, is also laid at the foundations of the 160-bed camp training centre and Olympic athletic track, along with a closed gym in Bolu, Bolu, in the sport centre, in order to ensure that the summer's work in Antalya will take place in the summer. I give thanks from here to all the friends who have been working on this occasion, and I salute the General Assembly with respect.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0011par0071	Thank you, Mr. Ercoshkun. I will make a promise to our 10 friends according to the 60th article. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0012par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to address today's statement by AKP Speaker Hüseyin Çelik. I condemn BDP and bloc forces as Kurdish racists. The CHP-AKP meeting on the Kurdish issue has not been disturbed, but has been found positive. However, it may be uncomfortable for Kurds to be treated as foreigners in their own homes. It is neither human nor conscientious nor pedagogy to compare the Kurds by giving the example of elective lessons to Pakistani people living in England. The mistake is the hypocrisy of continuing arrests every day, as well as calling BDP to be reasonable. The other mistake is that we discussed the problem of terror and Kurdish separately. The AKP does not see Kurds as a people who can speak on their rights, but in fact ignores them. What happened ten years ago -- to explain this day with those who didn't -- to describe it as a positive step is to take it if I give it to you. That's the dead end of politics and the road. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0013par0079	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0014par0080	Hüseyin Steel must apologize, I'm sorry, it's rude!
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0013par0081	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0015par0083	Mr. President, according to the ruling issued yesterday by the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, judges and prosecutors in the districts of Kuluncak and Arguvan have been transferred to other districts. Of course, both Arguvan and Kuluncak were very uncomfortable about it, both of them are important districts, especially in the district of Arguvan district, where there is a prison in Arguvan district. In addition, the villages -- the furthest village -- are at the Sivas border, the closing of the courthouses here will be very bad for the locals, both for Kuluncak and for Arguvan. And we don't think it's right to make such a decision without anyone knowing about it. We ask the government to do what is necessary because Arguvan is an important district and Kuruncak is an important district. The courthouse buildings here have already been shut down, they've already been left behind, they haven't had enough service. I'm waiting for the government to do what's necessary, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0013par0084	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0016par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkish Chief Minister of Kızılay, Professor Dr. Ahmet Mete Ikara has announced a map of cities with a high probability of earthquakes in Turkey. The earthquakes he predicted occurred on this map in Van and Fethiye. He reported that there may be 7 earthquakes in the eastern Anatolian fault line, and there may be 7 earthquakes in Elazig, Malatya, Hatay. Similar earthquakes are expected in Erzincan and Tokat provinces, also located on the northern Anatolian fault line. Now, I'm asking the government and its ministers: is there any measure taken regarding the quakes that will occur in the 7th and above? Would you share these measures with the public? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0017par0090	Mr. Tezcan, please.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0018par0092	Dear friends, Didim district of Aydın Province has become the 1st in Turkey's Cleanest City Competition. First of all, I'd like to thank Didim City and Didim Mayor Mr. Mümin Kamacı. I'd like to congratulate you on the environmental sensitivity of this matter. In the meantime, I think our municipalities, who serve so severely with such poor environmental sensibility, should be shown the necessary sensitivity in the process of transferring the resources of the County Bank. I'm especially calling on the government to transfer funds in summer populations, such as Didim, Kusada, not according to the winter population, but according to the summer population.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0017par0094	Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0019par0096	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, I'd like to explain something through the House. This government has set a goal by calling it localisation. Now there is Saimbeyli district of Adana, with 20,000 inhabitants. It was founded in 1920, a very tidy town. We helped with all the public investments at the point of strengthening it. I now condemn this government's project of social and political destruction in the process of destroying these historic counties, destroying them, protesting. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0020par0099	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0021par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. Batum Airport is used by the two countries under a joint agreement and contract with the government of Georgia. Despite flights to Ankara and Istanbul so far, flights to Ankara have recently been cancelled. Due to the cancellation of the flights to Ankara, there is a major loss, and we demand that this be taken care of first, and we demand that the government be sensitive to it. We also have concerns about the closure of some courthouses -- my deputy friend has just stated in the decree issued by HSYK yesterday -- and the HSYK has expressed it in its decree. Artvin County also has concerns about the closure of Ardanuk and Arhavi courts. This is a historical error. Where you close the courthouses, in my opinion, close the boards, so if you want to start somewhere. I want the government to come back from this wrong as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0022par0105	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0023par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. The Justice Department is closing some county courthouses, and I brought them up yesterday. The last decree has already been implemented in these counties by not appointing Ükîm, prosecutors. In Isparta, four county courts are closing -- no one's giving us any specific information -- but the hearings we've received are in this frame -- Senirkent, Ulüborlu, Gürandost and Atabey. On the one hand, we're taking service to the foot of the people. You say, "You're taking justice away from the citizens." According to thousands of people living there, you put 3-5 forensic personnel first, you care. Justice is getting more and more out of hand for the poor poor. Poor people who are already having trouble finding food are being left with poor transportation costs, boroughs are being emptied, etcetera. I want the AKP to give up this practice, which will bring new challenges to all of these trials. I invite my friends, AKP Isparta MP, to support our fight. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0024par0112	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0025par0114	Mr. President, thank you very much. I'd like to talk to you about the same thing. Both our county courts have been closed at the footman's house: Karahalllı Courthouse and Ulubey Courthouse. That's not where the judge's appointment was made. Now, we call it easy accessibility in the judiciary, and we say that the judiciary needs to be delivered efficiently, to reach people's rights as soon as possible. And we're making legal arrangements about that, and here we are, sort of like mediation, public supervision, but now we're bringing in a system that's going to prevent citizens from reaching judgment. Indeed, I agree with Uður Bayraktutan, and if it's too much here, let them shut down the trustees and make this a direct village. Because that means that, after a while, these boroughs will be villaged, the end of social life in these counties. Savings isn't everything, it's never a savings in the judiciary because these people will go to other counties...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0026par0118	Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0027par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. On 25 May 2012, one of our police officers was killed and one of our technicians was injured in a traitorous attack on the Pınarbaşı District Police Directorate of Kayseri Province. Our technical assistant, Ismail, died today at the hospital where he was being treated. I ask for God's mercy, and my condolences to his relatives, his family, the Kaisers, and our nation. On this occasion, I also congratulate Didim City Hall, which received the first prize as a member of Turkey's cleanest urban category, and wish for further success. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0028par0124	Mr. Nebati...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0029par0126	Mr. President, I have a request from the office of president, members of the group, commissioners, administrators and deputies: Please, let them park the vehicles within the House properly. I'm asking the cops outside, why did you park a car here? Even though they put it in the shed. Sir, what can I do? The MP came and parked. He says. We'll be the number one responsible for any accidents that may occur there. Please, let's follow the rules of traffic properly and properly. I'd especially like to say that I've had a breakdown from cars parked on the sidewalks. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0030par0129	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The delegation led by Mr. Mahmadali Vanov, president of the Tajikistan-Turkey Interparacy Group, was granted a formal visit to our country as a guest of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, with the decision dated 13 June 2012 and 26th of the Grand National Assembly Council of Turkey. The visit of the delegation to our country, dated 28/3/1990, and 3620 of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, the 7th Amendment on the Order of Foreign Relations The clause shall be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In an effort to investigate the problems of Kahramanmarash Milkyman University and determine the measures needed to be taken, the Constitution is 98. And the TBMM Charter 104 and 105. In accordance with the clause, we respectfully request and demand the opening of a parliamentary investigation. [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 2) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Lug]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Aydın]] [[Slap]] [[Inconceived]] [[Mersin]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Adana]] [[Erzurum]] [[Kayseri]] 18) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] The problems and expectations of our heroic milkman Imam University have increased. For efficient and quality education, problems need to be overcome quickly. The problems of our university include the problem of physical space, the problem of publicisation, the problem of social areas, and the problem of academic and administrative staff. The university's academic and administrative staff consists of tenures for three faculty members at the university's first establishment. Along with six universities of higher education and university of applied sciences, the medical school was established. Because the number of universities of higher universities of applied sciences and universities of applied sciences is increasing, the number of schools and programmes are increasing rapidly. The Medical School serves in a huge jam outside the Central Avşar campus in the building, which has been temporarily assigned by the City Health Directorate. Medical School Research and Application Hospital must be completed as soon as possible. The Faculty of Agriculture has a problem with transportation for research and applications. These areas are 25 kilometers from the faculty. The faculty needs to build animal production facilities as soon as possible. The Faculty of Science and Literature has a physical space problem, such as the office, class and laboratory. Since the Faculty of Engineering and Architecture has no building of its own, the Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences is temporarily taught and taught in the building of the Fen-Edebiyat School because it has no building of its own. The Faculty of Fine Arts, unfortunately, continues to study at the Ataturk Cultural and Sports Center in the halls and workshops. The Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences, the Faculty of Theology and Forestry also have a problem with the service building. The Health School has a building and physical space problem on the sports facility and diversity of the Gym School. There are also various problems with the Academy of Applied Sciences, the High School of Foreign Languages and Elbistan Applied Technologies Schools, which have been approved by the Council of Ministers and submitted to the approval of the Council of Ministers. Afşin, Andırın, Elbistan, Göksun, Marketsik, Kahramanmarash, Health Services and Turkoglu universities also have problems with places and places, labs, machinery, equipment, workshops, dorms, maintenance and repairs. Therefore, the Constitution is 98th in the study of the problems of Kahramanmarash Milkyman Imam University. and 104 and 105 of the TBM Administration. A Parliamentary Research Commission shall be established under the clause. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In 1937 and 1938, when the massacre took place, all the questions left in the dark about the "Missing Daughters of Dersim" -- whose family had been murdered or forced to be taken away from their family -- or taken to high-ranking soldiers under Turkish policy, or taken to dense cities where Turks live -- were supposedly taken to the cities -- were answered and identified their numbers; the official archives opened and shared with families and the public, and their numbers were announced; and the results could be known; and those who were alive could be found. And 105. We offer and propose that a research commission be set up in the Parliament under its provisions. The massacre remained a state secret, although it was 73 years ago, but the extent of the massacre, the claims of the people in the region, and the content of the laws that the state at that time made specific to Dersim. Witnesses of the massacre's testimony and documents have revealed a similar massacre, not only in the history of the Republic of Turkey, but even in the history of the world. In the face of all claims, the state's archives still remain unopened, suggesting that the hidden dimension of the massacre is even scarier. At that time, a massacre was prepared for the region as part of the reports made by state officials on the Dersim Region; a governing structure of that province was created as part of the Law on the Administration of Tunceli Province of 2884, dated 25 December 1935. Together with the founding of the Republic, Tedip and Tenkil took place in the Dersim region, which was settled on a special policy in 1937 and 1938. By military action, people were massacred, bodies piled up and burned, and women, children, and old men who were hiding in caves were massacred. My class is almost inhumanized after this military action. Another claim is that girls who lost their families or were taken from their families were taken from Dersim to be forced to give to the senior soldiers and to some families. This has revealed another dimension of the pressure and country policies imposed in Dersim under official policies, and is a problem that is awaiting a solution today. It is one of the clearest examples of Turkification policies, which can be summarized as "the force of children from one group to another." 2 of the United Nations Convention on Obstruction and Punishment of Genocide Crimes The issue in question is defined as "genocide." The Ismet Inönu programme, which he explained about my class, contained such measures as evacuation of Dersim, which would not be inhabited without the permission of the Council of Ministers, and "opening girls and boys' boarding schools where the Turks are busy, raising and raising girls and boys who have reached the age of five in Derim, being married among themselves, making Turkish nests of property and property of their own parents. These suggestions have been implemented one by one, and the school girls are taken from their families within the framework of these policies. Although some have later been found, there is no information as to what is the fate of missing girls, where they live now and how many are still alive. Official data on the subject at the time were still hidden in public archives, so it was not learned by the public. There are still a lot of schooled families looking for missing girls today. Although some families or girls who were taken away from Dersim at that time had benefited from their own efforts, most families were unable to see their children again because they had no information. Daughters who have been reunited with their families claim that because their daughter was usually given to military families, she was registered to the population of a family they didn't know. Some claim that there is not even a record of the girls in question. The massacre was over a century ago, but the state did not fulfill its responsibility to our citizens, who were then victimized and still alive. We find that it is necessary for the state to determine its responsibility for the situation; for the archives to open up and open up and open up a parliamentary investigation into how many girls from the Dersim Zone were given to other families at that time, where they were sent, and how many of them were still alive, and how many of them were still looking for answers, and how many of the events at that time should be shared with the families and relatives of the missing girls. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 29 June 1925, Sheikh Sait and his friends, Seyit Reza and his friends, who were executed on 15 November 1937, demand and demand that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the location of Saidi Nursi's burial sites and to be given to their families on March 23, 1960. Sheikh Said and Seyit Abdulkadir, who served as Chief State of State in the late Ottoman period, were tried and executed on June 29, 1925 on charges of "building an Islamic Kurdish State. " Seyit Reza and his friends were executed on November 15, 1937, at the age of 75, while his son was under 18 years of age. Today's public opinion knows that what happened in Dersim (Tunceli) in Seyit Reza is atrocity, a false trial. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said that this illegality was Seyit Rıza's "son is a brothel. I'm a sinner. Shame on you. I'm cruel. It's murder." Saidi Nursi died in Urbana in 1960. But those who struck the 1960s took him to an unknown place, not leaving him alone in his grave. Saidi Nursi thought that both in his life and after his death, Turkey's best ideas were discussed, selling and reading the works the most. Each of these executed individuals is known to have a family, a loved one. According to the laws of the Republic of Turkey, which define both Islamic rules and the "Democratic Law State," these people have the right to know where their loved ones are. The democratic state does not hold grudges against its citizens, it does not act out of vengeance. Despite all these years, their parents' demand cannot be ignored. When the Kurdish problem is most heatedly debated, we think that the discovery of the graves of these most beloved, respected individuals among the Kurds and giving them to their families, to their loved ones, would be a very important contribution to the past of the state and the creation of a peaceful society. For this purpose, we believe it is imperative that a Research Commission in the House begin researching these individuals' graves as soon as possible. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. Mr. Ayşe Nurkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mr. Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Mr. Ahmet Aydın Üdıyaman, who is ranked in the 1st rank of Justice and Development Party Group Chairs İstanbul MP, Mr. Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mr. Kareseri MP, Mr. Karesun MP, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mr. Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Mr. Ahmet Aydın, we will continue to talk on the amendments of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Institution Proposal Proposal Proposal. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and Constitutional Commission reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? Here. Government? Here. In yesterday's merger, talks were completed on the first part of the bill, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. There are three motions on the first article, which I will have read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 276 Orders of the Numbered Legislature One. The purpose of this Law is to propose and propose that the declaration of this Law be changed in order to create an independent and effective complaint mechanism in the functioning of public services, creating an independent and effective complaint mechanism for the implementation of good governance in public services. (x) 276 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 119th Union Record dated 13/6/2012. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the first draft of the current Public Inspection Act. Article 1 of the article. We respectfully offer and offer the addition of the declaration to release the results of his joke after the word being found. I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first article of the Constitution shall be changed as follows. Article 1 - The purpose of this Law is to form the Public Auditory Agency to investigate, to investigate, and to investigate, and to make recommendations, based on all kinds of actions and actions and actions and actions of the administration, based on human rights involved in international documents and the Constitution, in the light of justice, in accordance with legal and rights, in the form of an independent and effective complaint mechanism for establishing human-oriented management in public services. Mahmut Tanal Bkent Tezcan Hüseyin Aygün Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0031par0255	He doesn't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0030par0256	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0032par0257	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0030par0258	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0033par0259	Mr. Tanal will speak.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0030par0260	Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0034par0262	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. What is the purpose of the original law? The Public Control Agency is to study complaints about the poor, incomplete and wrong functioning of the administration, to investigate, to help treat bad governance. That's the whole point. Well, if that's the purpose of treating bad governance, the complaint institution has been brought here, but the resen hasn't been brought into the law, into the bill, about moving, about resen administration, about acting, about public supervision. That's a big flaw because you appreciate the treatment of this disease of management. Yesterday, one of our fellow speakers, the list of hearings in the court, the writing of 30 people at the same hour... ▪ Sir, why is no one interfering with this issue? That's the least he can do to complain to the public inspector, and he'll fix it. Dear friends, this is not a true and proper event. In what way is it not right and not right? If 30 people were given the same trial time at the same time, the same judge and prosecutors' Supreme Council would be charged with it. I mean, in the current situation, how can a citizen do that if he doesn't meet the freedom of rights, if he doesn't run the complaint agency, if he doesn't? Generally, this complaint institution operates in Anatolia as follows: What happens if I complain? I'm the target of management. I can't run my business and operations from now on. So, if the complaint agency isn't run like this, if the citizen doesn't run these legal rights, where does it work if we bring this institution that's bound to complain? It doesn't work anywhere. Our fellow former speakers said: "There is in Europe. " True, there is in Europe, but in Europe, the government inspector is acting. What's with us? For work, this institution is being brought in for show, but in Europe, the essence of the institution does not produce the element of movement. This will ultimately render this institution dysfunctional. Another thing is that there is also another missing situation: there is the 166th article of our Parliamentary Council. Article 166 of the Parliamentary Council considers who may enter the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Article 13 of the bill brought in regulates the oath of the chief executive in the General Assembly, which means Article 13 is holding the letter of the oath in the General Assembly. The General Assembly, when we look at the Articles of Names (D), says the National Assembly of Turkey (D) in the joke of Article 3 (D). So, what's being held in the 166th article of our Civil Code? Who can enter the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and organise it. The same thing is, the General Assembly and the commissioners' offices have been identified. According to this, no one can enter the General Assembly and committee halls except the MPs, the Parliament staff, the government's staff and called experts for the mission. Those who are in violation of this ban must be taken out by the presidency. Well, now I have to ask... the oath is held in Article 13, the General Assembly, which is in Article 166 of our Charter. In law schools, in the 1st grade, the law was organized: How do you make it? You have to pretend the law is a rug. Now you have to ask the Constitutional Commission, the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, you will bring the letter of oath to the General Assembly, which you have brought to the General Assembly, and this person will not be able to enter the 166th Amendment of the Charter. Isn't that a contradiction? Sir, we've done it anyway, we've got the power, we'll change it. That doesn't make sense, dear friends. Now, do we need this institution? I'll tell you right away whether you need it or not. Turkey has a State Control Board similar to this one, does it do its duty? He's not. There's the Economic and Social Council, does it do its job? He's not. There's an Ethics Board of Public Servants, is he doing his job? He's not. Well, if he's not doing his duty, then this institution you're bringing in will do its duty, and so far, the court has decided... that I, immediately... have a ruling from the General Assembly of Law. In the ruling of the General Assembly of Law, the Prime Minister was sentenced to compensation for failing to implement this decision in the case of Cargill. If there are no court decisions in a country, the public defender's recommendations can never be met, and it's impossible to bring them back. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0035par0274	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0036par0276	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit01spe0035par0277	All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0035par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 120th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and his friends was not enough to vote on the 1st article of the Law Bill 276 rows. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted, there is enough to decide. It's not accepted, I said it was your choice, and I'm sorry.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0037par0006	It's agreed. You said, don't turn around.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0035par0007	Mr. Young, I never break a promise, but it's a lie here. I mean, because it's a mistake, or if I've made a formal statement, whatever it takes, I've never come back for it, ever. We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. Commission? Here. Government? Here. I'm reading the other motion on article 1: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the first draft of the current Public Inspection Act. Article 1 of the article. We respectfully offer and offer the addition of the declaration to release the results of his joke after the word being found. Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0038par0016	He doesn't agree, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0035par0017	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0039par0018	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0035par0019	Mr. Halaçoglu, please come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Let's hear it for Hodja. It's me, Hajji.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0040par0023	Reverend President, the esteemed MPs, I gave a five-minute speech yesterday just as they were closing. In fact, the basis of this law was the Ottoman State. The lack of administrative judicial system for the Ottoman State was the reason, but the administrative judicial system is in the Ottoman state. Let alone the trial of state bodies, even the padishah, would enter into this judicial system because the king of the Ottoman Empire could be deposed for two reasons, and the first would be deposed if he had some disease, such as insanity, or sari disease, if he had a disease that could not carry out his duty, and the second would be deposed. For example, even here, he has a place in the judicial system in the Ottoman state, which can't be said to be gone once. Let me briefly explain for lawmakers who were not present yesterday: the Kadiul-kudât system does not exist in the Ottomans, it is in the Abbasi period, so it is wrong to attach itself to Kadiul-kudât. Instead of Kadiul-kudât, the Ottoman State has a Kazakker's system, but the ombudsman's system is not related to the Kazakri system. He also joined a parliament under the name Mezalim. Mr. Burhan Bey, but Dİvâlım is not in the Ottoman state. ==Early life==Divan Mezalim is also present in the Islamic states before the Ottoman State, but instead in the Ottoman State is Divan-i Humajun. Now, let's talk about how the Ottoman Empire applied this system. Before I say anything, there's an important system of virility in the Ottoman state, so there's a legal system. The institution established today in the Ottoman State is Divan-i Humayun, which replaces the Grand National Assembly of Turkey or the Council of Ministers. All decisions, laws are made in Divan, and when you look at the Ottoman archives, the Ottoman archives are set up to care about them, they have books of importance. The decision is submitted to the king's approval, and if the king agrees to it, he will be condemned, which will be published in the Official Gazette, and it will be passed by the law, but if there is no such practice, then if the king sees this law against Shari Sharif, the Constitution, then the Sheriff of the Ottoman Empire, not only according to the religious rules, but other than that, if he sees it as a violation of them, he will seek the conquest of the Sheikh. So Sheikhulism is the President of the Constitutional Court in today's sense. So even though she is the highest ranking official, she's not a member of the Divan- His Majesty, so she's not a member of him. So the system is very different. The system we call ombudsman today is directly linked to the Ottoman Divan-i Humayun, which I'll explain in a moment, because I don't have time for the next thing. Thus, in the Ottoman Empire, the system was not taken from Kadiul-kudâtlik, as said by Demirbaş Sharl. So you're going to see this in a different way. Consider: The Ottoman Empire has 23 million square miles of soil spread across three continents. How could such a state, a phone today, without telex, have been an empire with a golden ratio, so it could have run justice, any system in the best possible way? When you think of it this way, that's what's in the Ottoman state, that's what, what you call ombudsmanism, is the importance of the system of public supervision. I'm going to go into how this works, how this works, but we have to think about this: for once, the Ottoman State's rule of law system is a very different system, even from our current legal system. To me, more fair practices have been done. Here's the thing: the first women in the Ottoman Empire are tested again, 20 smithereens, 30 maple, 50 maple, 100 maple, but these are wages, daily. The highest womanship in the Ottoman Empire is the throne ladies, called the "mevleveliyet" in Istanbul, which is Job, who is called Biladi Selase Τ, who is the ruler of Istanbul and Galata. Beyond that, Edirne and Bursa are in the presence of their mastery, and 500 a day. The women's income, their salary, is 500 maple, so to speak today, seven gold pieces, seven republics' gold diaries. So, here it is, from the throne ladies to the state of Asia Minor. Those who complete the time of the Anatolian Kazazir are called the Rumeli Kazaskeri, who are appointed sheikülslam from the Rumeli Kazaskers or from their customs, from their pensioners. So she's not a sheikh, she's a witch, she's a lawyer. So, when we put the system in this form in the Ottoman Empire... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll continue my next speech.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0041par0032	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 276 Orders of the Numbered Legislature One. We propose and propose that the purpose of this Law be replaced by "the purpose of creating an independent and effective complaint mechanism in the functioning of public services by creating an independent and effective complaint mechanism for the functioning of good governance in public services." Levent Corporate (Istanbul) and friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0042par0039	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0041par0040	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0043par0041	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0041par0042	Mr. Corporate, please.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0044par0043	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yes, we're discussing the Constitution's draft law on public supervision brought into the 74th Article of the Constitution with a referendum on September 12th, and it makes it even more important that it is being organised as an institution of public supervision and, of course, as a Parliamentary institution, which has been prepared to make this arrangement in line with the Constitution, to resolve the complaints of citizens concerned with the functioning of the administration. We know that the drafting of the law has been considered part of the European Union integration process for a long time, but only the European Union wanted it. In this regard, it is possible to observe many problems in line with the world's examples, whether they are appropriate or not. In the same way, it is doubtful whether or not it will be in a function and practice that is appropriate for the institution's purpose, and there are many problems in this regard. First of all, the world's examples in Europe show that public supervision is organized according to many areas of expertise, so that it can be functional and effective. However, the lack of that in our arrangement is an understatement. This inadequacy is also found in the numerical plan, which means that having one supervisor, five auditors makes it impossible for millions of citizens today to come up with solutions in this area, especially in the face of the functioning of government. Of course, in the same way, the obligation to consume the administrative judiciary, not to touch the holy capital, the government's secret, asylum in the concepts of ▪ticoari secrets, all of which will actually bring with it an inadequacy. Of course, when public auditors have a field of human rights and freedoms in state-owned affairs, where they're going to work, they're going to make the exceptions that the law brings another problem, that purpose and functionality disappear. For example, the lack of investigation of rights violations in prisons or violations of rights within the Armed Forces is also significant, remarkable. Of course, most importantly, it's the principle of neutrality and independence that all opposition views are concerned about. Now, it's a Parliamentary institution. It's not really possible to mention that the majority of parliament and the ruling party will be independent or neutral, so it can't just be passed. It's very important that these auditors choose so that they don't actually have a government commissioner. It's the issue of women, of course, the issue of women, representing women in this area, the question of the representation of public defenders in the area of women's rights, in the area of women's rights, in the field of positive discrimination and gender equality, which this law, the regulation has never seen. Of course, there's no way that a government that finds its courage to speak so unprovokedly in women's rights, especially in the face of attempts to ban abortions, in preparation for this law, or in order to view the area of public supervision as women. Now, the main issue, of course, is that this public audit is being organised, but there's a reality, there's a state procedure, there's an administrative administration that doesn't even apply court decisions. So what are the ombudsmans going to do about this joy in the administration? So the ombudsman and the state will not be democratic at once, nor will the civil rights violations end. We're basically talking about problems and consequences in government operating. It is important that the state be democratized, that a democratic constitution be established. This is the area that we need to focus on today, and we need to solve the problem here. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0045par0056	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in the 2nd article, which I shall have read and process in order. T. B. M. Head of Parliament. The 2nd draft of the current 276 rows of legislation. After this declaration of the Law at the head of the clause, I would like to request the addition of the public chief and the declaration. I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Two of the current bill. We propose and propose that the declaration of duty and responsibility come after the declaration of rights of freedom. Yusef Halaçoğlu Nevzat Korkmaz Faruk Bal Mehmet Erdoğan Ahmet Duran Bulut Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0046par0072	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0045par0073	Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0047par0074	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0045par0075	Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0048par0077	Thank you, Reverend President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to pick up where I just left off. Now, the Ottoman State, which has established such an organization, of course -- as I just said -- has become an important issue of how to monitor relations between management and the public within its administrative agency, which extends to far-off geography. So I told you that as a state that has applied justice to the highest degree, in this framework, it has very well organized the public's relationship with its rulers, which is: that today it is discovered as ombudsman, but it is based directly on the word "Divan-i Humayûr," which is called the investigative inspectorial inspectorship. Therefore, this inspectorship depends directly on the Divan-samayun. Divan Humayun is the equivalent of today's -- as I say -- of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is the legislature. Hence, they travel through geography directly under different circumstances. But let me make this very clear: the Ottoman State is not only organised by an inspector such as its medical inspectors, but also by the right of the people to write their complaints to the Supreme Court directly. As a matter of fact, when you look at Ottoman archives, there are notebooks under the names of the journals. The complaints have been discussed directly in the Court of Divan, and the decision is final and cannot be changed, and it is above the courts. And so, the media inspectors are going to different cities, where they're complaining, and they're discussing all kinds of problems with the public. For example, a person who hesitates on a case informs this inspector, the inspector brings it in writing to the Court of Divan, where, if necessary, the person is called, where he is given the right to defend himself, where he can be held directly, where he can be interviewed, and the decision made in Divan-i-Himajü is final. In particular, I would like to point out that if anyone in the community, anyone in the public, complains about the executives there, if that administrator tries to do the least harm to the people there, then the direct right line is either being removed from office by the Supreme Court, or they're being cut off from their heads. Therefore, there is no way that executives can put pressure on the people who are complaining. Thus, the secular inspectorship becomes the voice of the Divan-immunist, the voice of their own voice in various issues, such as any pressure from the government to receive unnecessary taxes in any way, any unjust judgment in the courts. So, the system that Demirbaş Sharl actually took advantage of and established as an ombudsman is based directly on these methodical inspectors, not on Kadiul-kudata, or on the Dhivan Mezal, as I said at the time. Because when Demirbaş Sharl is defeated by the Russians in Poltava in 1709, he takes refuge in the Ottoman state, first comes to Ozi, then stays in Ozi, then is taken to Dimetoka, then is never brought to İstanbul, but when Dimeteko comes to Dimeteko, they also go to Edirne. He stays four years, he stays until 1713, he examines the Ottoman state system, he examines the medical inspectors who go to those areas. Thus, inspired by them, when he returns to his country, he sets up such an organization, describing it as his own terms. So, valuable lawmakers, the most important thing we can do when we set up this system is that if we want to succeed, we need to not build a system that will be condemned to any political will or be influenced by political will. This is the first requirement if you really want it to work out well. The Ottomans did very well because they are not subject to political will in any way. Secondly, look, many such institutions are being formed, and so are the institutions established, for example, in the Prime Minister's Office of Human Rights, but unfortunately seven of their members are being appointed by the Council of Ministers, seven of the 11 members. When something like this happens, it means that the people who are already going to oversee the execution are appointed by the executives, and that he will never succeed. Same thing needs to be done here and in the ombudsman. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0049par0086	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The 2nd draft of the current 276 rows of legislation. After this declaration of law at the head of the clause, I would like to request the addition of the public chief and the declaration. Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0050par0094	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0049par0095	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0051par0096	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0049par0097	Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0052par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. By the way, of course, I didn't take any promises. This has come to our attention that we have closed the courts, and that Nazimiye and Mazgirt's courts have been closed in Tucson. Now, Mr. President, this government has no idea. Now, it's near the center of Nazimiye and Mazgirt districts, and it's also a terror zone. Now, the law says that when you catch a criminal, you have to take him to court in 24 hours. So how are you gonna take it? I mean, they do it behind a desk without thinking about it. Now, Mr. President, they've brought such a law that I'd like to ask the fellow who lived in the government and the President of the Commission. It says: "In the actions and actions of the administration, the attitude and behavior of the administration...... we understand the action, the process, and what is the behavior?" What does that mean? So Mr. Burhan, you've met a lady. I went to see Burhan Bey, and he winked at me. He will say, "Woe, Burhan Bey, why did you wink at the person who came to you? Actions and procedures, attitude and behavior... we've come to understand his legality, but how will he be fit for justice? Actions and actions, attitudes and actions, will also be appropriate, except for whether or not they are in accordance with the law. How's that fair? Friends, I mean, it's been brought to such a ridiculous understanding that there's such a law that, of course, we don't discuss material from here. In the second article of the law, we now have the law: this is the establishment and duties of the Public Control Agency. No, this law states principles concerning public leadership and public supervision. So the main thing is public leadership and public supervision. Something very incomplete. In fact, I have a recommendation to my friends: either you're going to want to buy yourself five barley stores -- not five -- one chief of staff, five supervisors, general secretary -- so you're going to need a barley. You've already brought the election process to its core in the presidency. What did Recep Erdogan say? Mr. Abdullah, our brother is running for President. Did you choose anyone else? You didn't choose. Is there such a thing as the will of the people? No. And there's no need for this law, Mr. Recep, if you're going to do this, you're going to bring the Fethullah Gulen, or you're going to appoint someone else to head it up, okay, that's our handler. Well, you're going to bring in five chief assistants and you're going to pay what you want. All of these laws are useless, because the writing of the law, the principles of the law, are so wrong that the period of litigation begins if the head prosecutor doesn't decide in six months. These are such important issues that when the trial period stops, when the trial period begins, it's very difficult for the citizens to know, and it's also a loss of rights. Sir, what will be the legal value of the chief inspector's report, and what will be the outcome? No. If the administration wants it, they will obey it, if they don't want it. Then, I mean, the state of the courts is clear. The courts are no more today, there is the will of Mr. Recep. Everyone knows that in Turkey. This person will be arrested. If he says so, he will be arrested, he will not be arrested, he will be released. If he says so, he will be released. Now, what's the chief inspector gonna do anyway? Is it possible that now the AKP's bureaucrats and any other citizen other than your opinion will report to the administration and report to the administration a legitimate request? It's not. So, all of this, you know, you're dealing with things that are illegal, and you're dealing with things that are illegal, and you're dealing with things that are illegal, and you're dealing with people that are illegal. So there's no such thing as law in Turkey, there's no such thing as verade, it's only the will of Erdogan. Look, over a year, there are five elected, eight lawmakers who can't come here. Why? Recep Erdogan doesn't want this. That's what everyone says, plain and simple. I mean, we've heard that everywhere. Sir, special-duty courts... these are special-duty courts. So you, other than Mr. Recep, have no freedom to make decisions here, to make initiatives, to expose the issues of Turkey, and they have no personality. So, whatever he says happens. So now that you're going to be in power for three more years, there's no need to keep the House occupied. As Mr. Recep wishes, Mr. Padişah Tayyip. Whatever Mr. Recep wants in his kingdom. An order is issued, and you obey it, and the country is... For him, I think it's unfair that the House be invaded with such ridiculous schemes, which, after which, for reasons, are not clear, whose end is uncertain, and what it brings to the citizens, and what it brings to the state, and what it brings to many burdens. I want my motion accepted. In the meantime, I want enough to decide.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit02spe0053par0112	Thank you. I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... There's no decision enough, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0053par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 120th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in the vote of Mr. Faruk Bal and his friends' motion given on Article 10 of the Law Bill 276. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. The commission is here. The government is here. I'm reading another motion on Article 10: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Subsequently, we propose the addition of the bell to Article 1 of Article 10 of the 276 Numbered Bill. preferably doing scientific and academic studies on human rights, taking part in the national and international NGOs in this area." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0054par0012	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0053par0013	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0055par0014	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0053par0015	Who's gonna talk? Mr. Commander, please.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0056par0018	Mr. President, dear friends, I'd like to read it again. I begin by giving a reminder to our friends who care deeply about Islamic references: "Give the message to the most faithful one. " He did not say, "Give the law to your people." In everything, there was a need for faith and a driver's license. So, what's wrong with that? You bring people who have such a speciality. It says here. The translation of rejection of this is: "No, friend, there is no need for the rights and the freedoms, the rights and the rights of human rights. " The opposition says things that will make your life and the life of the whole country easier if there is one thing to show that you take this Parliament seriously. Well, you're not a master either, your record's been pretty rough. Why? You brought your own laws here two or three times and had them hammered again. Now, when that happens, what should we say here, we'll say, and we'll listen, but tomorrow we'll go back to history. The Commission has already hooked you up to automatons, as well. Are you joining us? It says here there is no right-wing, Kurdish-Turkish issue, the search for merit, that the people who are to be brought have a license for it. No, not with a driver's license. Is that what you're going to say? At least call it a yes. And you say to history that something had come out of opposition at the time, God bless them, and we have considered it. You don't do that. Friends, this country has a basic disease in this regard, where it often changes places with the car. It's not just about the current government, it's always been a problem here. For example, education campaigns are called, hundreds of schools open, and after a while the school talk is forgotten, and the whole target is directed to open more schools. What are you afraid of here? The more healthy this job is, the more bad it'll be on you. There's only one explanation for resisting this, when we look at all of this, but those who have something to fear can go into that kind of psychology. If there's another explanation for this, bring the person who's right. If there's another explanation for the matter, say that there's a government spokesman or a government deputy, let's say that we're wrong. You're keeping the most intense rights violations in this country out of control. Your understanding of total government is similar. You started by taking him out of court control wherever there was potential for abuse. Then, wherever there's potential for abuse, you've taken it out of the control of the Public Contractorship, or you've taken it out of the way that it's involved in that mechanism. We are now drunk here; which of the laws, which of the newly established laws ignores the Public Contraction Agency, and now we have difficulty following it. Yesterday, a deputy will remove this Public Contraction Agency from here. Let's get it over with. You've brought it to that level. There is no need to be afraid of Murakabah, but if you believe that you are doing the right and lawful, then there is no need to be afraid of it. Always to increase the partnership and make it part of the solution, not by 50 percent, but by choosing this auditor -- I'm throwing -- by 70 percent -- it only increases your credibility, if there's nothing wrong with the work that's done there.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0057par0024	Yes, there's a good name.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0056par0025	Finally, there was a ruling deputy here yesterday who said, "Why don't we have a deputy with a headscarf?" And he was loaded for it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It was our first motion. Your approach, you are Zarathustra, what is your business with the veil? It's history. Just to remind you again. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0058par0030	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1 (c) be replaced by Article 10 of the Competitorship Act 276, which is currently in session. Law, political information, economics and administrative sciences, education from schools of economics and business, or higher education institutions in the country or abroad, which are considered equivalent to them. Is the commission in?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0059par0037	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0058par0038	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0060par0039	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0058par0040	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0061par0041	Ugur Flagtutan.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0058par0042	Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0062par0044	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion that we have made regarding the 10th Amendment to the Constitution of Public Controllership Act 276 rows under discussion. I hereby salute the High Council. Before I begin my remarks, yesterday, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors -- a few moments ago, my fellow lawmakers -- announced the Judicial Summer Decision concerning 2,335 judges and prosecutors. In a detailed statement to the press yesterday, the HSYK uses the same statement in its statements published on its website, saying: "There has been an attempt to observe the calendar mentioned in our declaration of 16 March 2012, but it has been published on the basis of a five-day delay in the Judicial Judicial Judicial Decision, which has been carried out by HSYK. Now, my dear friends, as you can see here, the HSYK has done a five-day savings operation on the closure of some of the courts in all Turkey before publishing this Charter. Unfortunately, two courts fell from this lottery to Artvin. One of these courts is the Ardanuç Courthouse and the other is the Arhavi Courthouse. From what we've learned, since the first years of the republic's establishment, these two courts have been shut down, which serve as judicial services and have taken serious advantage of our citizens. Our town of Ardanuch is a town with a population of about 13 to 14,000, with a population of 17 to 18,000 in the summer, 42km to Artvin, my dear friends. At the same time, our Arhavi district is a district of Hopa, the nearest district of Hopa, where about 20,000 people live, reaching 30,000 populations in the summer. Now, when we close the courthouse in these two counties, when it's saved in a country from the courthouse, what do I think is going to smell, my dear friends? Therefore, due to the closure of these two courts, there are serious sacrifices in the two districts of Artvin, in which our citizens have taken advantage of the legal services, and I demand that this matter be taken into consideration by the government immediately and returned from this error. Why do I demand it? Because our people who live here will have to go to other districts in a very serious sense to get the smallest criminal record, because of the difficult conditions in the winter to reach one place. Look, even a criminal record... if we start this, I believe that in the next few days, they're going to start with the courthouses and shut down the notaries, so it's going to be a serious loss. When Congress started today, I asked at first a question motion, and I said there: "If you start closing the courts, close the trustees." I mean, if you start somewhere, there's no end to it. Do you save money at the courthouse, my dear friends? So everything in this country could have come to mind; we've closed banks in our districts, closed public institutions, closed institutions on public economic initiatives, but we can't tell people about the closure of the courthouses. Look, they're listening to us on TV today. I have some very valuable friends from the opposition party who came here, and they told me. They face a serious problem in their constituency. Tell who what? I believe that our friends at the ruling party are also in a very difficult position and I see that the demands and requests from citizens regarding the closure of the courts in the constituency. So we don't have to talk about it. I, three or four days before this started, made some serious attempts at the Justice Department, asked written questions, asked bureaucrats. No, there's no such thing. They said. Now, when HSYK did that, it came out. Therefore, I demand that the government return from this error at once. Other than that, I'd like to say that the measure in the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' decision issued is that, above all, there is no integrity in these appointments, there is loyalty in them. So there was no appointment based on merit. About the closure of the courthouses in the counties I've just stated, I remember very well, in the cities of Ardanuk and Arhavi, where our two courts were closed in 2011, they wrote, "Arhavi, think big. Think big, think big." In both places, our people thought big, closed their courthouses! I'm reporting you to our citizens from here, and I'd like to make it clear to you first. As for our motion... with this motion, we demand the removal of the statement in the article text of the article (c) of the 10th article we discussed. When the notice is lifted, the requirement is to graduate from law schools or universities that provide adequate legal training in law schools or programmes. In this way, public auditors are intended to make more effective, more expert, and healthier decisions. Our goal here is that in Scandinavian countries, such as Sweden, Norway, Denmark, public supervision is the key key factor in the ombudsman institution, the criteria for graduating from law schools. If we put law school here -- and I don't understand why you're worried about it -- I believe we can solve this problem. With these thoughts, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0063par0056	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three proposals in Article 11; I will have them read and processed in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and "at least three-thirds of the number of candidates" in its sixth joke to be added after the word "at least one woman" after the word "at least one woman" in its third joke, followed by the phrase "three times as many candidates as the auditor" in its sixth joke. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and change the 5th and 6th jokes of the 11th Amendment of the Common Control Agency Act 276 rows. The chief is elected by the secret vote of two thirds of the member's integer. (6) The lower commission, which will be established by the Commission, determines and submits to the Commission in 15 days from the end of its application date, as many as three times as the number of candidates will be selected. The Commission will make the inspector's elections in the next 15 days. Controllers are elected by a secret vote of two-thirds of the membership integer. In cases of multiple Controller elections, a joint ballot is organised for candidates." I'm going to read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 11th draft of the current Public Controller's Act. of the article: One-three. The commission shall submit its candidates who are applying for the chief executive election from the end of its application period. In 15 days following the end of the interview, he will identify three candidates and report to the presidency to be presented to the General Assembly." changed to form, 2-4. The fifteen words found in his joke were removed from the text, adding sixty words, Three-five. 5) The head of the joke is selected with three fifths of the member integer. If this majority cannot be reached in the first vote, the second vote will be passed. In the second vote, the candidates could not be elected unless three fifths of the member integer was granted. The presidency informs the Commission of the situation to determine three candidates among its other candidates. The Commission determines three new candidates, considering the results of its interview. Of these candidates, three-thirds of the member integer are elected head of the first or second vote. If there is no results in this vote, the Commission and the election process will be repeated in the same way." Four-six. "Interviewers are elected by Parliament on the basis of the number of auditors in each political party group, among the candidates the political party groups will show as two times the number of members in parliament," the joke said. changed to form Five-seven. We respectfully offer and offer the release of his joke from the article text and the identification of matter numbers. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0064par0075	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0063par0076	Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0065par0077	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0063par0078	Mr. Honey, please come in.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0066par0079	Mr. President, we have reached the most important issue of the law. With this, the selection of the chief and supervisor is held. When we read the article, it turns out that the majority of the ruling party is in a hurry. In this haste, it is in a state that has been driven by the speed brought into the debate of the law bill in the lower commission, the Commission and the General Assembly, and here, the election process is compressed into a narrow period of about 15 days, where it is obvious that the chair is given to one designated head supervisor, five designated auditors, to prepare their seats. I'm going to try to explain to you here in a few words why public control exists. My dear friends, parliamentary democracies are a system of balance and control. People who believe in the essence of parliamentary democracies know that balance and control are tasks given to certain institutions within state bodies, constitutionally, but in Parliament, in legislation, it is an opposition mission, a process that will be produced by the activities of the opposition, a constitutional process, the procedure required by parliament law. Now, with this bill, you're tasking the ruling majority with the selection of a control body, and you're bringing it into a cover, as if it were an election, to a person who's going to be assigned to the Constitution by a number of sentences. If this was really going to be a choice -- as we've expressed in our motion -- who are the candidates, we need a commission to review this; they need to interview these candidates face-to-face. Two, there will be an election from these candidates, why is the General Assembly voting in 15 days? We said to get the opposition's views on the General Assembly. To find a compromise environment, you must increase it to at least 60 days if you are to limit it. On the other hand, why don't you adopt a form of democratic legitimacy for those chosen by the opposition by providing democratic participation in the opposition, rather than by walking through this clause, where the majority of the ruling majority will eventually choose? Three out of five, two times in a vote, the General Assembly has made this motion to ensure an environment that can be agreed upon, given the unelected vote of those who have not received it and the results of the interview by the commission, by offering the second three people to the General Assembly. Thus, it was revealed that this would be rejected or rejected by a statement of opinion. In fact, it is not the rejection of the National Movement Party's motion, but the acceptance of the process of rejecting the essence of public control, the rejection of its spirit, rather than the self-control of the government. My dear friends, on the other hand, will be elected by the ruling majority. The auditors will be elected by the majority of the ruling parties. The chosen ones will also be able to do all things, do all things, examine every complaint, and decide according to the result. And will the voters of a party that has received only 48 per cent and 49 per cent of the vote here be satisfied? Otherwise, what's the voice of people like 51% who don't vote for the ruling party? So we've suggested that the opposition parties, as in the RTÜK Law, have an opportunity for this voice to appear and to rest, to be able to choose a supervisor. Of course, we know that these will be rejected in the fingers that will be lifted shortly, because they will rule over your conscience instead of your mind. Why are we telling you this? For the sake of God's sake, we say this in order to please the people, and to make it a pleasant place in the sky. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0067par0088	Thank you, Mr. Honey. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and change the 5th and 6th jokes of the 11th Amendment of the Common Control Agency Act 276 rows. The chief is elected by the secret vote of two thirds of the member's integer. (6) The lower commission, which will be established by the Commission, determines and submits to the Commission in 15 days from the end of its application date, as many as three times as the number of candidates will be selected. The Commission will make the inspector's elections in the next 15 days. Controllers are elected by a secret vote of two-thirds of the membership integer. In cases of multiple Controller elections, a joint ballot is organised for candidates." Binnaz Earth (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0068par0097	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0067par0098	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0069par0099	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0067par0100	Dear Earth, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0070par0102	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, my friend Sırrıyya Leader told me in part what I was going to say, but I'm still going to say, Mr. Bkent Arinc, one of AKP's sane men, was here to say, "Mr. Arinc or government officials, why do these laws come to Parliament?" Why are we talking about these laws, these bills, and we're voting? Because my experience is that from the day I got here, we've never been able to turn any law into a decimal in Congress, so it's as it came from the government. So, personally, here, I thought it was a waste of time for us to talk about this, even our vote. Today was a miracle, however, the only thing the opposition parties proposed -- the matter of having a supervisor among these auditors, who would take care of women and children -- was changed from the draft law that came in.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0071par0103	That's not ours either.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0070par0104	This, I hope, will continue, so we can say that this is really a function of this House if we agree to adopt these laws. Now, in a country where discrimination, anti-discrimination and rights violations are very common, I think this law is very important, but, of course, if it can actually be a working and solution-making institution, it's a state-sponsoring institution. The most important obstacle to this is this -- the most important obstacle to the issue that our friends from all three opposition parties were working on last night, from 8 to this point in the evening -- is the question of how to select the public auditor. Now, as proposed here, and I hope that -- even though the government says that we don't agree with it -- maybe, hopefully, at the end of the day, they'll change this stuff, just like they just did, because the reasons are explained, so it's very important that it's independent, that it's neutral. If elected in its current form, it means that whatever party there is in power -- it is not only the AKP's issue -- there may be another party the day after tomorrow -- the person he chooses will come there. A friend of ours from the AKP who spoke last night said: "Sir, don't you remember, at the time, that we couldn't even elect a president, so it was a coup." Now, for God's sake, is there not a single person in a 70 million country that anyone can agree on, that everyone is independent, that everyone is neutral? So there should be a culture of compromise here, where there is no culture like that. I think it's the most important reason to lock down the coven, make the coven unworkable, and, unfortunately, cause all this fighting and noise. Therefore, I hope that this proposal will be accepted and this will be changed. The second issue, this woman thing, as I said, has changed. I was going to bring it up, but thanks to you, BDP friends insisted on bringing it up, and that changed. But that's not enough. I also think that a woman's ombudsman needs to be established. It's not just me, it's women's organizations. As vice president of the Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission, I can tell you that this is one of the clauses our Commission has proposed to the Constitutional Compliance Commission, the violation of such an institution. I think it's extremely important in a country like Turkey. At the same time, half of these personnel -- I'm talking about the current law -- half of these public auditors, come on, half of them can be seen in a ruling parliament, at least one third should be women. Secondly, it's about the public defender's job description. In that definition -- I've forgotten the number one, I think it's the second clause -- I think it should be highlighted, certainly, that it will maintain the principle of equality, that it will fight discrimination, and that it will protect fundamental rights and freedoms. Finally, of course, in a country as large as Turkey, and in a country where right violations are common, this auditor will have a lot of baggage. I know the example of Spain, they built it, they gave up because thousands of applications came in. Later, I think, it's a different model that's been re-established. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So I think it would be very helpful for him to be either a public auditor in every county or a supervisor with separate commissions, as the CHP's friends suggested. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0072par0116	Thank you, Mr. Earth. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and "at least three-thirds of the number of candidates" in its sixth joke to be added after the word "at least one woman" after the word "at least one woman" in its third joke, followed by the phrase "three times as many candidates as the auditor" in its sixth joke. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0073par0123	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0072par0124	Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0074par0125	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0072par0126	Mr. Akat, please.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0075par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on Article 11 of the current bill. I salute you all. We submitted this motion during the Commission debates, which, of course, was rejected. He declared that he did not attend here as well as the Commission and the government. Sure, what do we call no? In the September 12, 2010 referendum, we declare that we will not practice the principle of positive discrimination, which you submitted to the public opinion, and we call it no. Yes, he's done a very good community engineering in power. The greatest need of society was freedom, right, democracy, equality, and you determined that, you told the masses about democracy, freedom and human rights, but then you said, "This is what we have in hand, you will accept it." That's not enough, but yes. His understanding has brought us to this point. So today, one of the five auditors was appointed for the woman, and one for the child. That, of course, is not something we would say no to in this case, but what will be its institutional problems the day after tomorrow? We're predicting one chief inspector, five separate auditors, institutionally. One of them will only take care of the woman, one of them will only take care of the child, and the other 3 will take care of all the areas of trouble in Turkey. We're predicting a general-purpose ombudsman agency, but we're setting up two specific areas where the Public Control Agency can do its job. Why? Because that's what women's organizations want, that's what children's organizations want, but most importantly, we're bringing in this ombudsmanship within the laws of harmony. We didn't build this institution in front of the European Union. We said, "One of the five auditors will take care of the woman and one of the child." This will bring with it some serious problem areas in the future. In addition to that, we only miss one of the five people who are interested in this area. We don't know as soon as the motion is accepted, but we say at least one of the three candidates to be proposed for the Bashombudsmanship should be women. Of the three times as many candidates to be offered among the auditors, one third of them should be a woman. We say, "This is what is rejected." Now we don't know if there will be a woman of three, but this is the general policy of the government, again, let friends see at the shop, probably one of them will be a woman. She's only interested in women's problems, and a woman's view of the general society will not reflect a woman's view of the areas of trouble in general. Once again, if she becomes a member of the woman as a supervisor, you just deal with the woman's problem, and the smart men will handle the others. They carry out their responsibilities in this regard. Against this, let's be silent, let's not oppose, and let's accept. Because that's what we're predicting -- if you want to -- our number of seats here is enough to make all the laws by themselves. Again, when these laws are being drawn up, when drafting the bill, we bring the bill here as we want it to be, regardless of social needs or expectations, and that's how we tolerate the elements that will put pressure on us in public. We won't be silent about it. What did Turkey have to do with you? In the September 12th referendum, a country offering basic rights and freedoms to the referendum in 2010 experienced the essence of its reality. The basic rights and freedoms are the duty of the government, and you offer them to the people, and I will expand your spaces of freedom, and you will not say, "Allow it." But what happened? In the judiciary, military custody tried to justify sharing in the field of power, fighting here through basic rights and freedoms. These were presented to the public, tried to get public support, but in his background, as we did yesterday, there were reflections of that power struggle as we had the day before. In the past, when the generals were appointed, the country would become a bomb on its agenda; now when judges were appointed, when they were replaced, the country fell like a bomb on its agenda. That's the difference. So, is this process going to continue like this? It won't go on. Turkey will continue to say no to the revolutionary, democrat, left, socialist, liberal, non-believer, all its powers, but all its forces for equality, freedom and human rights that have not remained silent thus far. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0076par0142	Thank you, Mr. Akat. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 12 that I read and process: T. B. To the Chairman of the M Assembly This is the 12th draft of the current 276 rows of legislation. The following sentence is to be written at the top of the clause. They are independent of their duties. Is the commission in?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0077par0150	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0076par0151	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0078par0152	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0076par0153	Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0079par0155	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we made regarding Article 12 of Bill 276. Now, Article 12 states independence and neutrality. It immediately began: no body, authority, authority, and person can give orders or order to the Chief of Staff and to the auditors concerning their duties. Now, first of all, in my motion, I say that the chief and auditors are independent in their duties, and then, after that, they can't give the terms, they can't pronounce them....... in fact, the government didn't understand this finesse. There's no government, there's no commission, there's no one at work. Dear MPs, of course, when we bring in some institutions like this, we think they're neutral, independent, they really decide in the measure of right and justice, they serve the state, the nation healthy, but unfortunately, since the AKP came to power, I haven't seen any savings in the appointments made by those they've appointed to the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors, and in the procedures they've established, that are truly neutral, that are really justice-enhanced, that are justice-enhanced. Now, look, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors issued a decree yesterday. You know how Mr. Recep says that some of them are wearing collars? Some of the press organs they wear are appointed by the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors special-duty courts and prosecutors. You open them, you look at them, all the people who served in private court and made decisions that today's political power didn't want. You moved the prosecutor, so what? The D.A. isn't a decision maker. Now, Mr. Bkent says, sir, the MPs shouldn't be inside, they should be in Parliament. Aren't you a partner in the government's work? Don't go out there and be a cheap hero in the market or public, if you're participating in the government's actions, then don't say those things. If you say those things, it's the government you're involved in, if they're doing the opposite, it's the honorable and honorable thing to do, not to share in the actions of that government, but to withdraw from it. I mean, sir, the detention period of special-duty courts... is, of course, friends, I mean, Ergün Poyraz was brought in in in 2007, and today, for five years now, this person, like Mustafa Balbay, Tucay Özkan, many of our friends, Labour Party President, all of them are lying in prison for no good reason. Now, friends, now, Turkey is the state of judges. Judges became the state, but judges are AKP people whose state does not subject to one single torture, wrongful arrest. Other than that, the people across the street are all... Look, today, he's closing a hundred and ninety-two courthouses. This government doesn't know that there's a terror zone in the east, southeast. The people there are people who need bread. When a citizen has a job there, he'll take a car 50 kilometers away, drive away, come back. There's been a crime committed there, and the police have taken these people in. So, what's it gonna be? How are you gonna get security? How are you gonna get him to court? People will stay there and be vulnerable. You, according to the Constitution, must bring those people before the judge within 24 hours. How will it go without security? So you can't harass people by sitting behind a desk like this. Look, about these judges and prosecutors' transfers taken by today's Board of Judges and Prosecutors, they're completely wrongful in special-duty courts, don't you ever read them? The citizen says: "Sir, he has committed fraud in the CDs that have come about me." The judge says: "Sir, this is a technical matter, I don't understand." Well, if you don't understand, release that citizen. After that, if there's really a crime against that citizen, do an expert investigation, then arrest him. Friends, when you're in your prime, judge these events on your own conscience. If you or your children had been in prison for three years, five years unjustly, wouldn't you have rebelled? People with a conscience, a sense of shame, a sense of responsibility to society, the torture of others... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He needs to hear whatever shame he feels when it's done. In that respect, I'm afraid... Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0080par0167	Thank you, Mr. Young. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two proposals in Article 13; I read them in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 13 of the Constitution of Public Controllership Act 276, which is currently in session. "As the Article 13- (1) begins its duties, the chief commissioner is in the General Assembly, and the auditors are in the Commission as follows: 'I will carry out my duties in full neutrality, honesty, justice and justice, in accordance with the Constitution and the basic qualities of the Republic, and upon my honor and honor." Now I'm going to read the second motion and process it: 13 of the current bill. The item is edited in the following way. Article 13- In the beginning of their duties, the chief commissioner is sworn in by the General Assembly, while the auditors are sworn in as follows: I swear on my honor and honor, before the great Turkish Nation, that I will faithfully fulfill my duty to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey in full neutrality and justice." Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0081par0182	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0080par0183	Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0082par0184	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0083par0185	Enver Erdem, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0080par0186	Mr. Erdem, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0084par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion for Article 13 of the Public Control Act 276. I salute your high council. In the speech I just gave, I mentioned that there were some hesitations at the point of whether such an arrangement was necessary. When I looked at the statements of our President of the Constitutional Commission, Mr. Lamb Hoxha, in both Subcommittee and Commission Reports, I actually saw that they themselves had reservations about the functioning of this system. This shows that our words on this matter are extremely important. Dear lawmakers, again, in my earlier statements, I spoke about the rhetorical answers that the bureaucracy had given to the ministries, where lawmakers had asked the bureaucracy by the hand of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm going to move on to another assessment by mentioning another one of these. Now, in the Uluova region of Elazığ, there is a watering union called Jobbags, and this Irrigation Union has had to be shut down due to its rare energy debt in Turkey. It was a scale of the event. 27 permanent workers, however, were left in the middle with the closure of the Irrigation Union. I mean, dozens of families, hundreds of people are miserable and miserable right now. We raised a question to our Home Secretary, the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs. And the answers to these don't really mean anything about solving these people's problems. So where there's a law state, there's a need to be answered questions that can answer the problems of people with problems. I mean, where would these people go? Now, with this arrangement that we've made... you've brought in the legal arrangement for intermediary last week. So you said, "Let's solve problems between people in disputes by means of a finder's hand as an alternative." You said, "You passed it." Now that you've brought the ombudsman's system -- the public inspector -- the work that will be incomplete in public services when the government conducts these services -- this will be a job if we bring it to a better level of service. You say, but the answers are given to the congressman or to the Turkish Grand National Assembly, will this really function? You know that much better than we do. On the one hand, we will solve the problems of the city. You say, "We will comfort the citizens." You say, "You bring these arrangements; on the other hand, you close the courts in about 70 percent of our geography, in our cities in the 80s, in the 250-300s of our 900 counties. So on the one hand, we're going to increase the level of prosperity by increasing the quality of service in the community. You say, "You're blocking the public's access to judicial services." I'd like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister: Mr. Vice Prime Minister, did you go to the network, do you know about the network?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0085par0195	I know.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0084par0196	Do you know how the network transports to Elazığ, Deputy Prime Minister?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0085par0197	I know, I grew up in Elazıg.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0084par0198	So, if a person is shut down there, will they reach Elazığa by subways or by subway buses? What kind of money are they going to come and go with? Yeah, it's easy to fool people. Now, you bring mediation, ombudsmanship, to speed up justice services, to speed things up in the judiciary, and by closing the courts, you block the public's access to justice services. So you can't fool these people with what you're doing. You'll get the answers, you guys are really horny, so you have to see this once. You're horny, you're horny!
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0086par0201	You're being rude!
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0087par0202	Your Grace, please...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0084par0203	What other reason can there be for you to say that by blocking the path of judgment, we raise the quality of service to people in other ways? I mean, who are you kidding? You're shutting down 250-300 county justice agencies, isn't that horny!
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0086par0204	You're being rude!
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0084par0205	Is this not my brother who is insolent?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0088par0208	Mr. President, please take it back, speaker.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0084par0209	There is nothing wrong with my words, and these words are the reward for your deeds.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0088par0211	Please invite him to take it back.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0089par0212	Your Grace, what was the last... I promise you, go ahead.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0090par0214	Mr. President, if you complete our motion...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0089par0215	All right, I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0090par0216	The decision is enough, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0089par0217	No, we've already told the respondents. Those who refuse... are not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Gardendoor.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0091par0222	Thank you, Mr. President. I simply want to say that the person who just gave his speech here should come and apologize to the AK PARTY Group for using those words. Because I don't have a political culture or a family decency to respond to that kind of thing. I don't feel responsible or in the position of answering. My group has no such responsibility. There's only one thing to do, and I expect this person to apologize to my group for using these sentences. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0092par0226	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0093par0227	From what sentence? Sir, from what sentence?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0091par0228	My manners are not fit to say that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0093par0229	What sentence?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0094par0230	What sentence?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0093par0231	What sentence? So...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0094par0232	Shall I tell you what sentence...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0095par0233	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0096par0234	I consider it an outrage to pronounce, to use, to use this word under the House.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0094par0235	I get it... I get it...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0095par0236	Mr. President, if they're giving up the closure of these courthouses that would be an obstacle to the use of 3-4 million people in Turkey's justice services, I'm going to apologize for that sentence, and I'm going to apologize to them...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0096par0237	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0095par0238	If they're not doing that, I took it back here...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0097par0239	But now he's different. Mr. Erdem, criticism is one thing, but work...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0095par0241	But the criticism...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0098par0242	Mr. President, that's not criticism.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0097par0243	So the word of the horny is a word that is not appropriate under the roof of the Assembly.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0099par0244	I think it's a reasonable word.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0097par0245	Sir?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0099par0246	He used a clean language, our friend. He used a very clean language, my friend. He didn't do anything.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0097par0247	I'm having the other motion read...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0100par0248	Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0097par0249	Your Grace, do you have anything to do with your promise?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0101par0250	If you turn on the microphone, I'll...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0097par0251	Wait a minute, just tell me... if you're going to repeat the same thing, there's no need to open it. So are you going to take it back, or aren't you going to take it back?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0102par0252	Isn't he ashamed of himself?
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0097par0253	I mean, that's what I'm asking.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0103par0254	Mr. President, criticism can be presented, any savings of the government can be criticised.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0097par0255	I said the same thing, Mr. Gardendoor. Look, I said the same thing.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0103par0256	They just have to watch their language and take it back.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0097par0257	Look, if this is going to happen again, please... I'll turn on the microphone, and you'll take it back...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0104par0259	Mr. President, let's not put pressure on the Deputy under threat of discipline, so free will...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0097par0260	Mr. Tanal, I'm not saying it was discipline or anything like that, but I mean, with the words being used, maybe Mr. Erdem will take it back, so I asked him about it. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0105par0263	Mr. President, I just -- I just told you -- there's about 4 million people --
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0097par0264	Now, we get that.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0105par0265	We're talking about an application that will prevent them from resigning from judicial services.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0097par0266	Okay.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0105par0267	Now, if that's not horny, then I'll just say they're not horny and make it right. By doing this, the AK PARTY Group...
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0106par0268	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0105par0269	I didn't mean to break anyone's heart, but there's gotta be a price to pay. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-14sit03spe0107par0271	I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
