tbmm-2012-06-20sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 122nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Adıyaman MP Mohammed Murtaza Kıryük, who asked for the appointment of World Refugees Day. Here you go, Mr. Catcher.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, one of humanity's greatest problems throughout history is that people have to get out of their land, leave their homeland, for various reasons, for reasons, for which they were born, for which they were raised, for which they worked. Wars, famines, disasters, persecutions, oppressive regimes have always been the hope of finding a new home in peace and security because of the constraints of people's freedoms. In particular, intergovernmental war has caused refugeeism to become more intense. Other than that, ethnic conflicts, oppressive and authoritarian regimes, natural disasters and environmental problems speed up the floods of refugees day by day. Most people who leave the land they live in prefer this path to life on earth that is beyond living. According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, there are 42 million people in the world who have been forced away. By 2050, about 200 million people are expected to be refugees. So now there are people named after refugees, like Palestine, Somalia, Afghanistan, African peoples. Dear friends, the world's arbitrary practices cause the refugee problem to deepen. For example, according to the International Amnesty's 2012 report, Israeli authorities have blocked the transport of the refugees from Eritrean and Sudanese refugees to the refugee-determination mechanisms. This obstruction also passes through Parliament under an official law, and at the moment, all people who can become refugees are sentenced to three years in prison. So they have to choose the prison to live. According to the same report, thousands of refugees, in the name of their security and future due to political turmoil in North Africa and the Middle East, are trying to make a serious journey to Europe on unsafe boats. At least 1,500 people, including pregnant women and children, died of drowning during these journeys only in 2012. The European Union's response was to increase search and rescue efforts to secure the sea, increase the powers of the European Foreign Borders Agency Frontex, and increase the discrimination of refugees. For economic reasons, countries drive refugees out of their country. Dear friends, there's another oppressed nation I can't cross without mentioning on the occasion of Refugee's Day. Currently there are nearly 1,500 refugees in Turkey, Chechen refugees. Many of them, unfortunately, live under very difficult circumstances in the camps of Umraniye, Beykoz, Fenerbahçe and Yalova, as well as in different neighborhoods of Istanbul. There have been some postings issued by our Ministry of Interior. These days, the commission also provides various studies and legal arrangements for this issue. We will show hospitality to Syrian refugees who have fled from Assad's tyranny and taken refuge in our country after this legal arrangement for other refugees. It is one of the most tragic situations a human being can face when a tree has been removed from the ground for years and has to live again in a different climate and in a forest that is not used to it. The fact that the migrants are not offered a helping hand stands before us as the tragedy of all mankind. In the name of a common future, let us not withhold the help of refugees, orphans of mankind, and the hearts of these exiles. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit01spe0003par0019	Thank you. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Ardahan MP Ensar Öğün. Here you go, Mr. Reminder.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit01spe0004par0024	Mr. President, thank you. Dear friends, before we begin the agenda of our border district, I pray that God will have mercy on the martyrs whom we will bury today, not again. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Dear friends, eight courts have been closed in Ardahan, Kars, our border district. In 2004, the court of Damal district was closed in Ardahan, and this is the border of Georgia. Now the court of Posof district is closed, the border and customs gate to Turkgözü Gate. The Court of Madness is closed, and the border of Georgia is the border, the gate of Aktaş, and the road of Kars-Tiflis. Otherwise, the court of our district of Susuz has been closed, the court of our Selim district has been closed, the court of our district of Digor has been closed, the court of our district of Akyaka has been closed. Dear friends, Akyaka is at the border of Kars, on the border of Armenia, 57 kilometers to Kars. Posof, the border with Georgia, is 50 miles [80 km] to Ardahan. Go mad, the border between Armenia and Georgia is 42 kilometers. And when you consider the harsh winter conditions here... it's impossible to cross Mount Ilgar, 2,540, when you come and go from Posof. You are the Justice and Development Party called Justice, and I want you to think about how these people will pass through Mount Ilgar to ensure justice. And we want to reopen both the courts of Posof and Mad. Plus, besides that, Susuz, Selim, Digor and Akyaka... the population of Digor is taking more migration than any other county. I mean, if there was a drive-by from the village at the end of Digor, they wouldn't be coming and going in an hour. So there's no way to figure out what savings this was built on. Dear friends, look, the Crazy White Gate is about to open. The Ministry of Customs and Trade has made a contract with the Turkish Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges. Now, it's a door to the Turkish republics. Plus, the Kars-Tiflis railroad opens next year. So there'll be more service here, more intensity. The courts of these counties, which are in the border provinces, must be given back in absolute view of this intensity. So Akyaka will stand guard on the border of Armenia, waiting for Turkey, where you will say, "My brother, I have closed the court of Akyaka." What kind of justice is that? There's no justice, there's no development. I beg you, reconsider, reconsider. My dear friends, there's no political party polemics here, there's a fact here. Okay, some of the cities in the inner Anatolia are closed, the courts are closed, and I respect that, but I'm talking about the border. We were occupied by Russia for forty-three years, Kars, Ardahan, Igdir, for forty-three years. Although we were under Russian occupation, we did not submit to the Russian occupation. I mean, we're not going to give the enemy a home when he's alive. We've organized the people, we've gained our independence. So we didn't surrender to the Russians, we just got here... so we don't know what you're doing. So I beg of the High Council and beg of you... for what reason did you close these courts, brother? You can close other areas, but closing the courthouses in the border counties is not strategically correct. So now people have migrated from there. Ardahan had a population of 170,000 in 1992, and now it has dropped to 105, and has even dropped to 98. Dear friends, I mean, in Posof, populations are down, and 100 children are either born or not born a year. I mean, at least let's get the Ahiska Turks settled in Posof and Ardahan, so that Ardahan will have more populations. Otherwise, believe me, in ten years or at the 100th anniversary of the republic, Ardahan will return to a district, which will not be pleasant. I beg you, I ask you, to reassess our courts, to open them, with all due respect.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit01spe0005par0035	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Isparta MP Nevzat Korkmaz, who wants to talk about the problems of fire workers. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit01spe0006par0040	Mr. President, I've been promised to talk to the high-profile lawmakers about the fire department. I salute the High Council. Firemen are a very risky profession and a very important business, but unfortunately there is no such class of profession in our legislation, nor is it an organization that matters enough. I have expressed the problems of these brothers from the Parliament and asked you to provide support and support for them in terms of public health and safety, and in the wake of this talk I have attempted to establish a research commission attended by members of the party group, and what can we do as a legislative body about the fire department and its members? Later, I visited the fire department in Sskits, where I was able to talk to about 30 firefighters who were present. I'd like to share with you what they're saying. First of all, I'd like to point out that the most important thing for our firefighters is to be cared for, respected, as much as the importance of what they do. Because, friends, as you can all appreciate, there's a high risk of life, prices are very low. The spirit that motivates them is the spirit of service and heroism to society. Yeah, well, these guys, they get caught in the flames when everybody gives up their kids and they're worried about their lives. They spend hours in an environment where death and life are blood brothers, where their lungs breathe ash and carbon dioxide, even chemical poison. The municipalities, unfortunately, care more about the makeup and the wax they make on the city. They are reluctant to allocate funds for the necessary use of special clothing, equipment, and training costs to intervene in the fire. Thus, when many workers are sent to intervene in the fire, they go to high heat, chemical reactions, not in casual clothing, but in unguarded, vulnerable, in the hands of God. Sometimes firemen are assigned to the staff of subcontractors without being subjected to any training exercises. Dear MPs, members of the fire department, they want to be a business class, just like the soldiers, the cops. They think most of their problems are because they're not accepted as a professional class. They say they are stuck between political and transactions in municipalities, so an organisation outside the municipality will ease the working conditions. Many municipalities complain that their overtime is paid according to arbitrary definitions, not according to the written form of legislation. The tiredness portion is calculated only by the duration of the fire intervention, and the training and exercises are not taken into account. They're complaining that they can't get a month's worth of actual services invested in Social Security. They ask why the SGK did not pay for it. One firefighter in our country is doing the work of four firefighters in Europe. We're short 40,000 firefighters, except for the real jobs of our country, they're even used for cleaning, tea, fetching. Their salary is extremely low, given the risks and weight of their work. They're obsessed with the trouble of making a living. I'm afraid no one is considering how they can intervene in these circumstances. Since the time was short, I could only share with you a few important problems. There are many words to be said, dear friends, many problems to be solved. As the National Movement Party, I expect you to support the parliamentary inquiry motion signed by 20 MPs. On this occasion, all of our firefighters who have drunk their testimony, I bless them, and may their place be in heaven. I wish all my firefighters who are alive health, happiness, and success. At the end of my words... today there will be funerals, martyr funerals, funerals, which have been very upsetting to all of us on all sides of the country. For this occasion, I ask God's mercy for these martyrs who have fallen to the ground, who have been flagged, who have become a nation. I ask for patience with our beloved nation, especially their families, and I hereby salute all political or apolitic elements that have opened the way for the PKK, the most disgusting terrorist organization the world has ever seen, aiding and abetting it, with its words, with its work and operations, and with its apoliticity, I salute all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit01spe0007par0048	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the problems of teachers serving within the Ministry of National Education and to determine the solutions, we would like to submit to the opening of a parliamentary investigation under Article 98 of our Constitution, under Article 104 and 105 of the Civil Charter. 1) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] [[Inconceived]] 5) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mersin]] [[Kütahya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Tripoli]] [[Mughle]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Adana]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 17) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] Teacher problems are one of the most important aspects of our educational problems. Teachers are among the narrowest incomes in the public sector. Although our teachers work with self - sacrifice, their salaries melt year after year. Turkey is far behind in OECD countries in terms of education workers' salaries. It is surprising that a country that aims for the EU gives a low salary to its own educator. According to the OECD Education Review 2010 report, a teacher in Luxembourg who has just started in primary school, a teacher in the year 48,793, a teacher in the highest degree gross 101, 163 dollars a year, a teacher in Germany who has just started in primary school, a teacher in the year 43,524 dollars a year, a teacher in the highest degree, $5510 a teacher in the year, a teacher in Korea who has just started in primary school, a teacher in the year 31,532 dollars a year, a teacher in the highest degree, and a teacher in the year of U.S.E.C.D., a teacher in 2009, a teacher in the year, a teacher in the year, a teacher in the year, a teacher in the year, a teacher in the year, a teacher in the year of the year, has started in the year, at the year, at the year of the year, at the year, at the year, at the year, at the year of the year, he has won at the year at the year at the university at the year, at the university at the university at the university, at the university at the university at the university at the university at the university at the university at the university at the university. With the government's very low increase, educational workers are struggling with poverty, trying to earn a living. The Ministry of National Education has never been able to find a solution to the teacher's deficit. The problem that remains on the shelf after all these years is the endless ordeal of education. Today, the teacher's deficit is 150,000 people. The number of teachers waiting for the appointment increases year after year. Approximately 350,000 teachers are waiting for the appointment. Thousands of our teachers who graduated from education schools face the fact that they are unemployed. With great enthusiasm, our young people who are anxious to perform their duties are either forced to travel the streets without a teacher's degree, work out of their own profession, or work in private schools, negative working conditions, low wages, without social security. This employment model means taking advantage of the desperation of our young people. Around 80,000 paid teachers are assigned each year. Instead of appointing a staff teacher to satisfy the teaching deficit of the Ministry of National Education, employing paid teachers like seasonal workers shows that the exploitation wheel has been turned by the government. The broken teachers' families have increased by the decree of the law issued by the Ministry, and the families have been torn apart. It is only natural for our future generations of teachers and teacher candidates to perform their duties within the family integrity without any future anxiety. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Constitution's original existence, the Ankara rabbit, is to be brought back to our country, to be published, to contribute to the economy by creating new business opportunities, to preserve its race, to maintain its species, and to take the necessary measures to increase its production, is 98, and 104 and 105 of the Turkish National Assembly's Institution. In accordance with the clauses, we would like to submit to the opening of Parliamentary Research. [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] [[Kayseri]] 5) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Tekirdağ]] 7) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Mughle]] [[Antalya]] 10) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Scholarship]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Kütahya]] [[Adana]] [[Adana]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Mersin]] The Ankara rabbit, aka the Angora rabbit, is known for its long and soft feathers. Like the Ankara goat and cat, purebred rabbits have spread throughout the world from Ankara province. Turkey-Ankara is the home of the Ankara rabbit, which is the home of Anatolia. According to various sources, he was sent as a gift to the Queen of France in the 1700s, and according to Nachtsheim, he was rehabilitated from the Black Sea in 1723 to France and from there to England. The Ankara rabbit's origin is Turkey-Ankara, but it is extinct in Turkey. However, in the world, the growing of Ankara rabbits has been widespread for many years. The Ankara rabbit, raised in many countries up to Australia, France and China, is found on several farms in its homeland, with millions in numbers. The first purpose of raising the Ankara rabbit is to produce wool. The Ankara rabbit is the only animal in the world that gives wool in terms of softness such as whiteness, brightness and velvet. When Ankara rabbits first reach maturity for two months, they begin to crumple. Then, every 3 months, a 4-40-year-old can produce about 1 kg of wool from an animal. Angora wool from the Ankara rabbit gives eight times more heat than sheep wool and does not cause allergies. The Ankara rabbit is the only rabbit variant to be made of thread from wool. The cord made from the wool of the Ankara rabbit is known to be good for many diseases, including thermal clothing, circulatory disorder, and rheumatism used in knee braces, underwear, physical therapy and neuralgia, and because the Ankara rabbit's wool is gold due to its light and high heat holding, electromagnetic effect and lack of allergies. The intensive demand from producers for the growing of Ankara rabbits required that this animal be produced as a gene source and nurtured in the country. The Ankara rabbit's primary yield is wool (Angora), second-degree meat, third-degree fur/deri, fourth-degree yield of fertilizer and slaughterhouse remains. For many years, Ankara rabbit breeding has been common around the world. The Ankara rabbit was taken from Anatolia to France and England by British sailors in 1723. In Germany, the Ankara rabbit was first raised in 1777. Today, China, France, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Argentina, Chile, Germany, Brazil are the main countries producing rabbit wool. The most important countries that ever worked rabbit wool were Italy, Japan, Germany, France, India and Chile. The production of Ankara rabbit wool on Earth is estimated to be between 8 and 12,000 tonnes. 90% of the production is made by the People's Republic of China. The price of Angora wool, which is valuable in textile industry, depends on its length, its finesse, its softness, its cleanness. Ankara rabbit wool, which is used as raw materials in the textile industry in Turkey, is unfortunately covered by external purchase. A parliamentary investigation must be opened to determine and investigate the problems mentioned above in order to reintroduce, promote, create new jobs, and contribute to the economy. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose the opening of Parliamental Research under Articles 98, Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution in order to determine the reasons for the decline in women's employment and obstacles in the accession of women under the state's obligations due to the state's laws and international contracts. [[Batman]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] It is the rate of employment for women as well as the number of factors that determine the level of development of countries, such as national income per person, industrialisation, literacy. However, there has been no similar increase in women's participation in the labour force in developed countries and in women's participation in the labor force in developing countries and Turkey. As a matter of fact, according to the Social Gender Inequality Index, the World Economic Forum, Turkey is 131 among 131 countries in the economic integration and opportunity of women as of 2010. He's in line. In 1985, Turkey approved the United Nations Convention on Dissension Against Women, European Social Conditions, ILO, OECD, AGIC, and the Cairo World Population and Development Conference Action Plan 4. The World Women's Conference was committed to the Action Plan and the Beijing Declaration and to fight any discrimination against the woman. International agreements, which the Constitution also sided with Article 90, have been effective in the face of national regulations. Again, with Articles 10, 49 of the Constitution, it has ensured that the state, women and men's equality will be brought to life and that she will work in a business where she will earn income. Thus, both in his own laws and in the United Nations and the European Union's agreements and regulations aimed at the equality of men and women, he accepted the woman's employment as one of her human rights. Women's employment rates appear to be low in Turkey, compared to the European Union member states under which accession talks continue. Unfortunately, Turkey has pledged to reflect gender equality in all its policies and programmes, but has shown the rate of participation in women's labour force over the years that it has failed to make enough progress in fulfilling it. Women's participation in the labor force is relatively low compared to the 51.6% world average, and 27.9% as of September 2010. As of 2010, women's employment rate should be 60 per cent in Turkey, in line with EU targets set with Lisbon's Strategy, while women's employment rate in total employment as of 2008 is far below the rate of more than 50 per cent in the EU and all OECD countries. According to the Turkish Statistical Agency's (TÜİK) House Labor Power Survey survey, only 26 per cent of women working with 2009 figures have 63.9% of women working in the EU. Turkey is more close to the Middle East and the African countries with these figures in women's employment. In recent years, women's unemployment rates have risen faster than men's. In fact, it's not just Turkey. The unemployment rate of women is generally higher than men. According to ILO data, men worldwide have 5.6% unemployment rate, while women have 6.1% unemployment rate. In regions such as the Middle East, North Africa, the rate is up to 14%. Women's unemployment rates are particularly high in Turkey. In 2009, the official unemployment rate in the country was 11.3, while the unemployment rate of women was 14.3%. Prof. Dr. According to Gulay Toksöz's "Woman's Employment Report in Turkey," only one in four women currently work and one in four employees are women. All of these studies show that one of the most common areas of discrimination against women is the area of women's labor and employment. The most important indicator of discrimination based on gender and working life in social life is that men's earnings are seen as primary in working life and women's earnings as secondary. The lowness of women's participation in the labour force is one of the obstacles to the equality of men and women and socio-economic development. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. 20.06.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday, 20,06,2012 (Today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi and his friends suggested that the Council of Assembly of Turkey (467 rows), which was given by the Council of Turkey on 15th06.2012, "the discovery of those who have stopped the use of collective contract rights in effect, leaving the process of determining the position of its workers and their families, should be read and discussed in the same session on Wednesday (May 20,06,2012), in order to determine the measures that should be taken in terms of their victims and their families." Süleyman Çelebi has asked for a statement in favour of the Republican People's Party group's proposal, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit01spe0008par0229	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute the High Council with respect and love. I have made a promise to share my views on the Republican People's Party's proposal for the process of determining the working arm. I salute the High Council with respect, with love. Dear friends, about a year ago, in the session of 15/7/2011, we discussed a law proposal before the House went on vacation, and we extended the release of statistics at the end of the 12th month, to extend it once again, and those who spoke on this microphone again, there were martyrs at that time, who had first expressed their feelings about the death of those martyrs, after they had first expressed their feelings on this law. We're talking about the same thing today, we've got martyrs again today, and we're talking about such an important issue in a process of violence and terrorism in Turkey. Now, the problem, dear friends, is that since about seven months, workers of a collective agreement with their families, including 900 businesses and 200,000 people, have been deprived. So those who work for an illegal procedure are exposed because the 12th article of the law is clearly published every six months, and according to statistics published, the Minister of Labor gives the identification to the unions. But this law is currently not implemented in Turkey. The last extended time is until the end of the 12th month. So from 1/1/2012, the Minister of Labour and Social Security has declared and stated that the new statistical process will be entered, and that the law will be passed by that date, and that the decision is not one-way with the confederations we have brought to you today, says the Minister of Labor and Social Security. So we're not going to bring a decision to you: let's do a six-month transfer, and in six months, we'll come back to you with a resuscitation. Obviously, we sat down, we talked, and we said, "Let's bring together the Trilateral Advisory Board twice in August and once in September, 3 times in September, 2822, 2821, and we've agreed to change these laws from the September 12th conflict. We'll finish these studies in August. So we're going to finish in August -- we're going to send our proposal to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our bill for changing them, and we're going to have the opportunity to solve this problem without further delays. So we're not going to come back with a six-month extension and an extension to your presence again, and we're going to change the laws of September 12th, the Unions Act, and we're not going to be able to come in front of Congress again with such a request. But that app, from the end of that history process until today. Now, the unions are calling for a collective contract of employment, and the minister answers the question motion I wrote: "The law of collective relations has been sent to parliament, and the law of collective relations is in parliament. Of course, according to a statistical practice today, the ball is in parliament because we cannot authorise the unions. For him, I said that he was in charge of the House, that the House should solve this problem... because people's fate is being tampered with. On the one hand, forward democracy, on the other hand, union rights, on the other hand, we're going to clean the products of the September 12th coup, and this Parliament faces the product of the September 12th coup, and the laws of September are still under way. On the one hand, it is said that further democracy and union rights and freedoms will be replaced by this law... the law of collective business relations was discussed on the commission, discussed on the subcommittee, came to the agenda of parliament, but when will this law be passed? How will these people, these unions, these workers be eliminated until this law is passed? Who's going to come up with a solution to the rights of these people who haven't had a collective contract in over a year? Of course, this Parliament has to produce, of course the relevant Ministry, of course the majority of the ruling party here has to do it. On the one hand, the referendum has announced that we will remove obstacles to the strike, everywhere, on billboards, on the other hand, instead of these ads, here, a pirate law, inside a pirate taxi driver's law, has experienced a process of banning strikes in the air-work arm, and with AKP votes this law has passed through this Parliament and 305 people have passed it on the street. They're fired. Why were they thrown out? 305 people are on the street because they use the right of the Constitution to use their basic rights, to exercise collective contract of employment, to obtain collective contract of employment, to fight, to use the right of the Constitution, which is due to the 90th article of the Constitution. The Minister has initiatives. But in exchange for the Minister's initiatives, the head of the Turkish Airways Board of Directors is concerned. Stay out of our business. We throw away what we throw away, we sell what we sell. If you've done what we've asked you to do, live long, leave the rest to us. So, here are the workers who have been given the right to strike, the right to a legal strike, the right to work on the street and as sacred as their lives. Today, if this law is not resolved immediately in the House... that is why we have submitted this motion... to bring the outcome of this law to the agenda of Congress as soon as possible. Otherwise, this House won't be doing its duty again. He won't have done the law he's passed here before, and he'll be watching the workers get victimized again. So this sacrifice needs to be resolved. What if there's an immediate extension of this victimization if he can't pass this law... that's not true. When we made a promise that day, it will not be a cure. I said, "I have spoken from this stand; these promises will not be fulfilled." I said, "I have spoken from this bench." It turns out we were right once again. We don't say that to be right. I wish we were wrong, and I wish those 200,000 people weren't out of contract today, and 900 people were authorized at work. But at least let's get the warrants now. They want a month, they want two months, whatever it is, let the authorities at least, let the workers not be victims. I'd like to discuss this law with you immediately. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit01spe0009par0239	Thank you. The Republican People's Party Group has asked for a statement against Demir Çelik, Müsh MP.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit01spe0010par0241	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I'm here to present my statements in favor of the Republican People's Party's motion to investigate the workers' right to collective contract and strike. I salute you with respect. Mr. President, it is not acceptable for a high-profile lawmakers to be in a position of public persecution, conviction, human, conscience, social and political rights, whether in a private or corporate position to collect capital, to be in possession of capital-based power based on the sovereign and sovereign relationship. It is a reality that today's world points to a legal state based on human rights and freedoms, and that Turkey, in today's world of significant and serious changes and developments, has also had to change, so it is clear that it will lead to a qualitative portion of changes, both the 1960 Constitution and the 1982 Constitution. But unfortunately, what we've seen, what we've seen in recent times and times, is that, in contrast to the expected change in a positive point of this process, the reactionary, conservative, conservative, conservative, self-serving of society's fundamental interests, the adult mindset, based on the sanctity of power and state, is being observed by us. Although the collective contract and strike rights of workers in Turkish Airlines have not been fulfilled recently, while the victims of the people who want to use it have been put to an end at a arbitrary point in the work of 305 workers, it remains a fact that we cannot find this joy in the state of the law -- in which some legal sanctions are expected to meet the basic demand of society -- while workers who have been waiting for a collective contract for months, laborers, public workers, and public workers' expectations for human conditions are not met, while a sensibilities are not met by power. The strike and collective agreement, which is the legal guarantee of the person who has to live on whether it is a state or private institution, is a social and political right, and the right to do so is the duty of his humanitarian responsibility. While it is the duty of the legal state to bring people to human living conditions, to provide human living conditions, it is not the duty of the legal state to avoid it, to avoid it, not to perform it, but to turn to the rights of the legal state. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we think that about 25 million of our citizens in Turkey are facing the poverty line. In our country, where the poverty limit is around $2,800, many of our employees still have to work and work on a salary below minimum wage, which is close to minimum wage. Our pensioners, BUG-KUR, are being paid 700-800 lira by the SEC pensioner, where our officers are subject to a salary of around 1,500-2000 lira, it's up to the state to make society happy, free. And when the state boasts that the world has an advanced 16th economic power, if it can't share this advanced economic level with the community, if it can't divide it fairly, if it can't stay at equal distance from them as a fair and social state, of course there's chaos here, there's contradictions, there's likely to be conflict, contradictions, unrest. It is also the duty of the legislature, as is the duty of the state, to address injustice, to bring about some social and political measures that will bring the community to peace. The legislature, where there is all kinds of lawlessness, injustice, and inequality, is responsible for providing research proposals, legal amendments, proposals for legal amendments, and to oversee and oversee constitutional regulations in favor of society, in favour of the individual, in favour of the individual, in favour of the individual, in favour of the individual. The fact that millions of our employees have income below the poverty line, that they should be deprived of collective agreements and strike rights, is a condition that, if not the duty of a legal state, the human and human social entity must fulfill its own responsibility. When we ultimately do not meet the basic needs of the worker and the oppressed both as a psychological and social entity, we also take it from production and production and prevent social solidarity, social activity and efficiency. If it's a sustainable, efficient, transparent, and fair management that the world of today understands from good governance, it's a fact that society deserves more than anyone else, the oppressed, the laborer, the poor. We can't deny it to the community, we can't spare it from the people, the oppressed, the workers, we can't keep ourselves away from some legal arrangement that will take away what's rightfully theirs, which will lead to capital savings, power savings. In that sense, we can't deny the right to strike against the state, against the capital, against the ruling centers, the right to a single and legitimate strike, the right to a collective contract from the worker. In this regard, the sensitivity at the point of fulfilling the human rights of the worker and the oppressed is more than anyone else in the House, is the executive body coming out of the House, and it belongs to its respective ministries. Of course, it is necessary for the ministry and the ruling party to have a sense of convenience that allows the Parliament to investigate such and similar irregularities. And even though the collective agreements of 2012 regarding public workers had been transferred six months later, we still should not have had an understanding that would bring them to human conditions and that would not be in content, which would be 4+4 percent, that would ignore their existing problems, that would have led them to ridicule, to dissatisfaction. Unfortunately, in our country, where all these injustices, lawlessness are on its knees, what is being done with the ten-year AKP Power will not be very democratic, legitimate, it will eliminate the fundamental demands of society with antidemocratic practices, it will ignore them, it won't fundamentally ignore them, it will gradually alter society's dynamics; it has left Kurds, Alevis, laborers, poor people, women and children in prison to revolt, leaving them no choice but to burn their bodies, and to face reality. And in that respect, I respectfully salute you all to consider the proposal for the revelation of any kind of research without delay.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit01spe0011par0253	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Ali Öz, MP of Mersin.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit01spe0012par0256	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the right to use this right through Group Business Convention 2821 and 2822, which regulates our working lives, the Strike and the Lokaoutt Act, have actually been established. Long ago, in the Commission, we see that despite the fact that we have completed the commission work of this law, which we found as antidemocratic, which we believe should be done with labor and with the worker, which we say is the remnant of the September 12th coup period, although its procedures and procedures have been fully determined, it remains in the cabinets of parliament. The uncertainty of this mandate is that the collective agreement cannot be reached, and we see that the workers are unable to exercise their democratic rights. You can't really understand why you insist on not giving these people the right to be organized, which you have expressed as an indispensable form of democracy from January 31st 2012. Trade unions seeking collective employment agreements have been submitted to the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, but so far they have not received an answer. As my predecessors have stated, the problem that concerns business life, especially its employees, the 900 workforce, and the family of more than 200,000 people must be responsible for whether or not the Parliament will ever be addressed, and therefore, we expect those responsible to express it and take steps to solve the problem, both from the Parliament and from you as opposition. We know that the application for the collective contract of employment has increased from 631 to 900, even exceeds, and it is imperative that we find out what is the obstacle to the use of this legal right. In the third joke of the 12th article of the Common Business Contract Act, which we cannot bring to the General Assembly, which we have completed the commission workwork, the statistics published by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security each year in January and July are based on statistics for the number of employees in all of these statistics, until the number of unions in this work is published for collective contracts and other transactions. Statistics will not affect the authority of the labor union, which has applied for or obtained the authority to obtain the authority. Again, according to the old law, the ministry is obliged to respond to the union within six work days, whether it is appropriate or not, regarding its application for authority. During our commission work, our work was completed on the grounds that this law would immediately organise many obstacles in business life. Of course, we're not talking about a very easy law. We're talking about the regulation of a law, which has a lot of social side, which concerns labor, which needs to be carried in a balanced manner with capital, but no matter what happens, the removal of the strike and lockout bans -- as we have expressed in the commission work -- in contrast to the 12 September coup law -- which we have expressed that we will side with the workers, that we will stand by the workers, especially in terms of democracy -- and that the rights of organization will not be obstructed by the Parliamentary General Assembly as soon as they are debated -- by the victims of 200,000 workers and the whole world of the collective business contract, in the name of all of whom we say that we will remove the obstacles to, especially by the law, which we say we will not be afraid to prevent them from the law, especially by the way of the parliament and the establishment of democracy.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit01spe0013par0265	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Mahmoud Kozar, Şanlıurfa MP.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit01spe0014par0268	Mr. President, honorable MPs, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party group proposal. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Dear friends, the Law 2821 and 2822 are a coup law, the biggest obstacle to democratisation of working life because the international agreements that Turkey signed, the Social Condition of the European Union and the criteria, are a common agreement that the law must be changed quickly, in line with Turkey's normalisation and democratisation, and that the law must be implemented immediately in terms of the democraticisation of its working life. A year ago, we discussed a one-point law on the final postponement of these statistics, and as we discussed this law, we stated that it was the last time to postpone it, and that the legislation on it would be completed as soon as possible. For the past year, there have been significant steps in this context, distances. Instead of Law 2821 and 2822, the bill was referred to parliament under the Common Business Relations Act. All relevant social parties of this law have been called to receive their contributions, the subcommittee has been established, and they have finally completed their talks on the upper commission and have been brought to the agenda of the Assembly General Assembly. Now, we've got two alternatives, dear friends: we're going to explain the statistics or we're going to get the law out as soon as possible. Our colleagues, who come from working life, know exactly what's wrong with explaining statistics. When you take the data from the existing Social Security Agency, according to current data, it is a fact that a very important part of the currently authorized unions will face closure, except for 10 of them. Important distances have been taken at the point of the adoption of the law, and a consensus has been reached on Monday, with the participation of all social parties led by our Labour Minister. Dear friends, the law, which has completed these commission studies, has been adopted on the subcommittee and commission, which removes the key obstacles to the democratisation of the working life that we have really waited years for, the freedom of organisation of employees and the right to collective bargaining. You know, in particular, the long-term courts for objection to authority in labor unionism, and after that, the demands for eliminating the process where employees are being victimised were no longer a matter of waiting for the workforce to find out. The requirement for notary application has been lifted for union membership and withdrawal. Workers working in business and also in different businesses were able to become members of more than one trade union. The employee's legal rights have been strengthened as a result of the union's discrimination and union reasons. Instead of shutting down the union for crimes committed by executives as individuals, it was agreed that the manager should be punished and his duties terminated. It was accepted that all recordings should be kept electronically so as not to cause problems with authority. Again, the framework contracts... 10 per cent of the labour arm dam brought in for the unions to get a collective contract was lowered. The business collective agreements replaced more than half the majority with 40 per cent of the majority, and in parallel with the constitutional amendment, the responsibility for the business damage caused by individual actions on the strike was taken over by trade unions. So nothing has been done in the last year. I don't think an approach like this is the right approach. In the last year -- this bill -- we've taken very important steps to meet the demands of working life, in line with the democratisation of Turkey's work life, and to remove the obstacles in front of it. I believe that on Monday, both the employer's representatives and the employee's representatives are crucial to the understanding and the map of the road reached at this meeting. For the past year, I have reiterated my belief that this law, which we, as lawmakers, have been extremely concerned about, will also be passed before the House goes on vacation, and I express that I am against this motion, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit01spe0015par0278	Thank you. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0015par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 122nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question motions, and we move on to the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın; Turkey's Grand National Assembly Institution Proposal for Change; Tunceli MP Kamer Gen's on the amendment of Articles of the Turkish Grand National Assembly; and the Constitutional Commission Report from where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin negotiations with Turkey's Human Rights Commission Report, which is ranked second. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 279 rows. Members of parliament, this bill shall be considered under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, after all negotiations on the bill have been agreed to be completed and passed on to its articles, it will be discussed in sections, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Yusef Halaçoğlu, Kayseri MP who has asked on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the entire bill.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0016par0016	Reverend President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Movement Party Group on the Bill of Human Rights in Turkey, 279 rows. I salute the High Council. (x) 279 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Throughout history, nations that care about human and human values have established great states in the world. The Turkish nation has respected and applied these values throughout its history. For this reason, he established 18 great states, all of which are called emperors. What's not to be forgotten is that empire-building nations can never be racist, because racists can't build empires anyway. However, the ambition of the nations to rule the wider land, to become a more influential and richer society has given birth to an understanding that drives man and human values back into the background. However, one of the most important principles in the fundamental philosophy of all religions is the sanctity of the living being associated with the Creator and the respect of the man most respected among the living. Dear lawmakers, after the discovery of the American continent in medieval Europe, the Aztec and Inca communities and the continental Indians have been massacred. A great deal of precious minerals flowed from this continent to Europe. Until 1660, the amount of gold and silver entering Spain alone is 218 tonnes. Let it not be forgotten that this amount is four to five times the precious mine in Europe, according to 1492. The population needed on the continent was provided by African Indians, and the Catholic church took over the trade. ▪ The black ebony trade, called the black ebony trade, has led many to make great fortunes. Meanwhile, European countries have acquired colonies in the Middle East, Africa, and America. As a result, this class difference that the Western world has made among humans and its rights and illegal behaviors on humans have led to the need for the publication of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights on December 10, 1948. According to this declaration, everyone is equal to the law and is entitled to equal protection by the law without discrimination. Everyone has the right to equal protection against any discrimination, discrimination, provocations, against this declaration. After this declaration, however, some states, such as France and England, continued the colonial system and committed genocide in countries such as Algeria, Rwanda. Dear lawmakers, why did I make this entrance? In another part of the world, there was another world that was completely outside of what I said up there, the Turkish world. After the discovery of America in 1492, almost all European states, especially the Spaniards, looted the continent of America and did what I had just told them to do with a great slaughter. Six hundred and fifty years before that date, the Great King of the Sky Empire, the wise Khan Orhun Scrolls, said: "When the blue sky above was created, and the oil was not created, there was a son among the two. I mean, man was created." We see that this understanding continues in the later Turkish states. As with Mahmoud of Kashgar, Seljuk, the Veziri Nizamülmulk also describes how statesmen should be and their relations with the people. As a token of the value given to man, the country was being built, not only for humans, but even for animals, as well as for soup kitchens, shortfalls, fountains, baths, bridges. The way you look at people has continued the same with the Ottomans. Mr. Prime Minister MHP says the people have no history, but I don't know what history books he's been reading, but if I give him a list of books we've read, I know he won't be able to finish reading them for the rest of his life.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0017par0022	He's reading a summary!
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0016par0023	On the other hand, it is important for a person to get what he reads correctly and to get it right. For example, sheikh Edebali, who is known as the counsel of Osman Gazi, let the people live so that the state can live. Because it's different to keep a man alive, to care about a man. As a matter of fact, the same philosophy was carried out by Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror. When the conqueror conquered Istanbul, which, for some reason today -- and whomever he touched -- in front of the wall -- when the ceremonies were banned, he turned to the right Ayasofya, and turned this great temple into a mosque. He set up a foundation for this mosque to live. The first sentence of this foundation is the essence of the universe, which is for people. It begins in the form of people. So there's still a person in essence. After the conquest of the land of the non-Muslims, the justice of the Christian peoples who live here has expressed their security of life and property under the protection of the king himself. At the same time, the Conqueror issued a law of engagement to prevent an injustice to the government's workers. The law states which duties will be brought to whom. In this way, an example of exemplary practice has been given, unlike the bureaucrats who are being massacred by political debates today, such as those who have the right to serve in their rightful place. In the Ottoman courts, an observation committee was formed under the name "How the court works, whether it works properly" and was tried to ensure a fair verdict in the courts. II. In the period of Bayezid, in Edirne, we see mental illness being treated by the sound of birds, music, and water. In contrast to lepers who were dumped on isolated islands in Europe at that time and left to die by isolation from society, The fact that a leper was built by Murad right after Edirne's conquest is an important example of the Turkish view of man. Again, leprosy was created for the treatment of lepers. The hospital, which was built by Sultan Mehmed after the conquest of Istanbul, is free of charge and free of medication for the poor one day a week. There was also a ward for mental patients in the hospital, which was built by the legal Sultan Süleyman. Sultan Süleyman, who earned the title "Great, Great Turk" in Western sources for his military and political achievements, was named by the Ottomans as "The Law," established the rights and justice codes in his capacity. As a matter of fact, about 500 artists who were brought from Tebriz and Cairo to Istanbul by their father as soon as they came to the throne gave permission to the statesman and the family to go wherever they wanted, to release the silk trade with Iran, to compensate the damage of the merchant whose goods were allowed during the ban. He also punished statesmen and military administrators who persecuted the people. In his work, Lord Sudi wrote that one fifth of the budget was reserved for those who were deprived of profit, orphans, orphans, and orphans, for the price of kindness, ibathe, and medicine. So at that time, it says that people who don't have a job are given unemployment benefits. After the conquest of Budin Castle by the Law, this poem is famous for having been written on the castle door, and it reveals the state's view of man: The scales are meditative, sir. There's no harm in that. The end of those who commit injustice here will not be good. The Ottoman state became a great state at a time when it held a traditional understanding and held a man above all things. From the time he lost that feature, the collapse process began. However, Sultan II. Even though the Abdulhamid era was made for all people who were in need of care without regard for religion, it was not enough. By the way, I'd like to point out that in all the Ottoman government's correspondence in Turkish, it was done in Turkish and in the language of the country. In 100 million documents in the Ottoman archives, all official correspondence is in Turkish. So, this law that we're talking about today will help establish an institution that will investigate practices against humans and human values and will provide a guarantee. However, in order for this institution to perform its true function, it must be independent. However, the fourth article of Article 3 of the Law states: "With this law and other legislation, he shall carry out his duties and powers independently and freely. No body, authority, authority or person can give the council orders or instructs or advise on the issues entering the field of duty." Although it is said, it is not an independent institution due to the faulty application of the members' selection. However, according to the matter, the institution appears to be an independent institution. However, when we examine Article 5 of the law, it turns out that this is not the case. In Article 5 of the Law, the membership elections are shown as follows: Two of the members are elected by the President, one of the higher education institutions, one of the bar presidents and seven of the Council of Ministers. So the majority is in the Council of Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I now address your conscience and your mind. Where in the world will they be audited to oversee their own actions? I mean, how right and just is it that the administration appoints people to supervise itself? How objectively can these appointed individuals control those who choose them? No body, authority, authority or person can give the board orders and instructions as much as you want. Yes, he can't order the board, but he can give it to Kuruma or his president. In this regard, we have made necessary warnings in the Turkish Parliament's Human Rights Review Commission. But unfortunately, the power read its knowledge and brought it back without changing the essence of the bill. We have suggested that members of the Council be elected by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for the right work of this Council. Just as the council that did this in the Ottoman Empire is directly dependent on the Supreme Government. But as with any law, in this third dexterity period, the government was anxious to protect itself, choosing its auditors himself. In fact, this behavior is the beginning of the end for power. He's in a rush to protect himself. History has always shown that when a ruling law comes out with the idea of self-preservation, it soon loses power. Congressmans, can you imagine that under the law, the Council of Ministers will terminate the duties of those who do not have the necessary conditions to be elected and those who have not been elected. So the appointed Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers who have been relieved of duty. In fact, the Prime Minister has the initiative in both. In this case, how will the Council work independently and under pressure? Of course, the original organization won't be able to function according to its purpose. But you're killing an institution like this before it's really needed. Therefore, the government is creating a new institution, which is of no further use to its supporters than to provide 76 staff. As a matter of fact, the situation is much clearer when we look at the conditions for the appointment of appointed experts and experts. Strangely enough, for those appointed as human rights experts and assistants, only a license-level education has been provided. However, a subsidiary such as the Outer Relations and Project Unit, which would also open two branches abroad, could be considered at least completed a master's degree and condition in English, considering that their experts will be assigned abroad if necessary. In this framework, I would like to point out that the Human Rights Institution can't function efficiently as someone who's been the director of an institution for 15 years. Indeed, in my 15-year presidency of the Turkish Historical Society, it would be a dream that you would expect a government-controlled institution to conduct a scientific autonomy research directly to the truth. Therefore, the institution must have both the fiscal autonomy and the autonomy of the work, which is the most important thing that it has to endure, is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and it has to be responsible to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Otherwise, this institution will die before it's even born. As lawmakers in parliament, we will fulfill the responsibility the Turkish people have given us, especially in the event that the above issues, particularly the selection of members and experts, and, again, the changes of the institution to which they are bound, will ensure that both the law does its own right and its duties. As I end my words, I pray to God for the mercy of eight of our soldiers who have been martyred in Dağlıca, and to their relatives, I pray for immediate healing for our wounded, and in this frame, I wish that the power would sit down and reconsider once again. It doesn't happen by fighting terrorism, by sitting down, by negotiating, by making compromises. It's happened all the time in history, it's been in the Jalali riots, it's been in the levents; the state has sat down and discussed it every time, but every time, terror has continued. The acts of terror that began in the 1550s were completed in the Ottoman State, but in 1770. Dear lawmakers, we are all responsible for preventing terrorism. You can't prevent terrorism without thinking about who it was, who it was, and who its supporters were, and who the terrorists were created by without fear, without fear, and without confessing. As I end my words, I salute the High Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0018par0045	Thank you. Sezgin Tanrıkulu, İstanbul MP who has asked on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the entire bill.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0019par0048	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the CHP Group over the entire Legislature of 279 rows.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0018par0049	Dear God, we need to know what's on the banner, what is it?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0019par0050	I have statistics, graphics in my speech.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0018par0051	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0019par0052	In the beginning of my words, I salute the High Council. In Turkey, where human rights violations have been committed heavily since the past and have been persistent, it is clear that an effective human rights institution to be implemented is the response to a very urgent and great need for the country's reality. And in the face of this reality and need, it's sad to see the bill that we're discussing here today. I wish we could be here today talking about a human rights institution that meets the needs of Turkey, which reflects the opinion of all Parliaments and NGOs, but unfortunately the ruling party has brought a new C-section to our agenda with the Human Rights Foundation Bill. Mr. Prime Minister says he's against the C-section, but he's giving birth to almost all his activities with a C-section under the name democratization. Well, you know, since the C-section prevents new births, the Justice and Development Party gets more sterile every day. The anger of this infertility also comes from the public, from prisoners and prisoners in prisons, from the protesting officer, from the retired teacher like Metin Lokumcu, from the Turkish Airlines officials on strike, from the TMK victims in Pozant (TMK), from our border traffickers, from our poor people, from the journalist who writes books, from people who have different sexual orientations. Every democratic baby that the Justice and Development Party gets with a C-section is born dead. The Turkish Human Rights Institution Bill is already condemned to be born dead. Because the AKP is not designed to follow, pursue human rights, pursue, establish an institution that is trying to determine violations and problems; rather, it is to dazzle the European Union and Turkey's society. Personally, as a man who has devoted his entire life to the struggle for human rights, I would never prevent him from supporting every step in favor of human rights, but the Bill of Human Rights Law, which has been put in front of us, is so bizarre that we can say from the beginning that this bill itself would put human rights at risk. In preparation for the draft bill, the opinion of the barrooms, universities, civil society organisations and experts working in the field of human rights has not been applied. Now our friends are here, and our Commissioner is here, and our Subcommittee is here, so they might say they're here. This has been on the agenda of Turkey since May 2009, and has been on the agenda of Turkey since 2004. Turkey came to its agenda in May, but NGOs only heard about it in January 2010. In January 2011, the Constitutional Commission agreed, and now it's stuck, and now it's back in front of us without consulting NGOs. Dear friends, we know that this necessity is a necessity to our obligations to the EU, but we know that it shouldn't come to us this way. You're trying to build His Majesty's human rights institution. There is no understanding of such a human rights institution. No! You're going to get the right information from the right place, you're going to make sure that the institutions that supervise you are independent, transparent, pluralistic, involved. This isn't another apartment, it's not a public office. We're not building a new sales agency in Turkey, we're not building a health department, we're talking about an institution that will oversee, monitor, investigate human rights violations, find out, punish them. Who commits these violations? These violations are made by the government, by the government. How will an institution of government officials be independent, transparent, involved, pluralist, and audit? With that understanding, the Human Rights Association cannot be built. Mr. Secretary, at least let's do this right together. We've done everything wrong under the roof of this House, but we're building an institution like the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey, so let's form it together in an institution that's really in accordance with the Paris Principles, in accordance with the principles of the UN. I know it's mandatory, there'll be a progress report in October. In the progress report, we did this. You brought it here to tell us, but we still have the opportunity. There's still an opportunity, let's get a study, let's get the opinion of NGOs in that workshop. All together to independence...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0020par0060	It's being done.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0019par0061	Where did you do it? Where did you do it? Where did you make it? Where did you do it? Where did you love God?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0020par0062	They've been working on it for five or six months.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0019par0063	Not like this. You know it's not like that. Look, the ball's coming, and you're gonna blow it again, this fireball. We'll see in the progress report together, in October, there'll be a report that criticises this government, criticizes this House, and then you'll come out and talk like that? Are you gonna get up here? The progress report is not only your concern, it is not only this government's concern, but the progress report is of interest to the whole of Turkey. That's why I'm telling you. Listen to us.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0020par0065	We heard it, we heard it on the subcommittee, we heard it on the top commission.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0019par0066	I wrote the doctor's thesis on it, if you want me to give it to you. In 2010, he had a PhD thesis. Maybe if I gave it to you, you'd read it. You're doing it wrong. Let's not get this wrong.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0020par0067	It's not wrong, it's not wrong.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0019par0068	You're not building the Justice and Development Party's institution, you're building the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey; you need to be independent of the Paris Principles, from being appointed to function, you need to be transparent, you need to be involved, you need to be pluralist, but there are none of them in this bill, unfortunately, none of them. We should have done it right. Dear friends, this bill goes against principles in many ways, but in many ways, including the way it's done. So we have the opportunity to review, we still do, we withdraw, the government reassembles this bill, and we do this institution again in peace, in reconciliation, in consensus. Now you can say, yes, he's come, he's heard the subcommittee. We've heard 16 institutions in the Constitutional Commission. But not a single objection went through the Constitutional Commission text. The subcommittee also heard, and no institution's objection was passed on to the subcommittee text, only a amendment was made to the 12th article. Other than that, there have been no suggestions regarding the structure of this institution. Now, we have a lot of Justice and Development Party friends from MaZLUMDER, and they have suggestions. Now you're hiding behind it: you're not the old Justice and Development Party, you're denying where you're coming from, or our friends have been standing where they're standing all over Turkey, resisting human rights violations along with other institutions. You're the ones who've changed, not those institutions. That's why you should listen to the criticism of those institutions. You won't deny where you came from. Dear friends, will there now be a Human Rights Institution with its members appointed by the Council of Ministers? Seven of them are thrown out by the Council of Ministers, seven of them! Two of them are being thrown out by the President. Come on, Mr. President, let's move on. The majority is seven out of 11! Who commits human rights violations? It's up to the government, and whatever government it is, it's building institutions that belong to it. During the period of your government or during another administration, there's a future, and what kind of inspection will your appointed officers make? Why don't you trust this House? Why don't we pick them, mostly, with two-thirds quality? Why didn't we give the Human Rights Commission, the Parliamentary Commission for Human Rights an initiative with this law? Why didn't we give the election, the appointment, the criteria? Don't we have the authority? There was, but you don't even trust this Congress to identify human rights violations, not even this Congress, not trust it to make good choices. You don't trust these MPs, you don't trust them to make a choice. That's why you took the authority from him. You will appoint seven men, and you will say, "We have established the Human Rights Foundation." Dear friends, with all due respect, no one will eat this. Our people don't eat, our citizens don't eat, then we don't eat, then the world doesn't. He'll show up, we'll see. Look, there's a report from the agency that visited our country on 17-21 January 2011. You've brought the same with you about the remaining law. He says that a new bill must be drafted because he cannot foresee an independent mechanism in the first place and because of many other shortcomings. They came, visited, visited you. There was no Parliament at the time, but there was this government before the government, who criticized it. So now, what's the use of getting the same review again? The same criticism, same ministers, same government, but you'll get the same criticism, you'll get it from the same committee again. So there's no point in being so persistently wrong. Actually, we're not supposed to be telling you this. Why do we say it? There will be criticism in the future, but that's what we're saying for Turkey, for our citizens, so there are no human rights violations. There is no Human Rights Agency under the government's responsibility, and there is no precedent in the world. There's Ha, there's other democracies, there's non-democracy countries. It's not under the government's control, it's under Parliament's control, it's independent, it's neutral, it's guaranteed, but in this one, there's none of that in this bill you've brought. Dear friends, why am I saying this? Why have not some broader powers been put into place in terms of the content of the bill and in terms of its powers? Was there an obstacle? For example, couldn't a woman, including violence against a woman, have human rights and discrimination not entered the field of duty? For example, freedom of thought and the right to knowledge, could not enter? For example, couldn't the violations of the military and security forces have entered? For example, couldn't the human rights of prisoners be entered as well? Children's rights, couldn't they? Couldn't the rights of minorities or disadvantaged groups be entered? Can't they be considered open? Could it not have been clear that the fight against racism and hate crimes was open? But none of that counts. What's wrong with counting? Let's write this down. What's wrong with that? Dear friends, again, the prevention mechanism that you want to bring with this bill is not a preventive mechanism in line with the UN criteria, unfortunately it is not. And with that, you try to go around the back of the law, but you'll see it again. The UN prevention mechanism, envisioned by the Select Protocol, is not capable of doing so. Therefore, even so, this bill must be withdrawn in terms of government and parliament, which has already signed the Select Protocol. In a nutshell, friends, the Human Rights Institution, which the AKP envisions, will not help to expose violations and problems, but will help to conceal them. If we act on this bill, it is clear that the Human Rights Institution will be no more than a means to an end. Dear lawmakers, we know that the Justice and Development Party has done nothing but darken the police stations, prisons, streets, and so do our people, slowly and slowly. There are basic human rights violations in every field. I'll give you the numbers. The number of people who lost their lives in custody during the AKP's rule is 44. According to officials, 23 of these 44 people committed suicide, five of them had a heart attack, while others either fell to the ground or died trying to take the weapons of the security forces. There has been no serious investigation or prosecution of any of these incidents. Cameras at the police station have always been broken at times of death. During the AKP rulings -- it's in this painting, Mr. President -- 129 unsolved murders have been committed. Again, 426 people were killed as a result of unjudgmented execution, pause notice, and random fire. 322 people have been killed in prisons and detention. Mind you, these figures don't include 2012, which is not the number of deaths that occurred the other day in Şanlıurfa Prison. Again, 47 people were killed during the AKP during the intervention of law enforcement forces. Some of them are now dead with pepper spray that the Home Secretary of the Interior, who is no longer allowed on a public passenger plane, called "invulnerable." According to the AKP, 10,297 people have lost their lives in business accidents or fate, as far as we're concerned. The number of people who received the inoperable report is 16,000. These figures suggest better why the Prime Minister opposed abortion. The prime minister of a country that has lost over 10,000 workers in ten years will, of course, want a population increase so that it can be driven into the field. Look, the number of workers who died between 1985 and 2003 in the shipyards is 39. During the AKP period, the number was quadrupled, so there were 110 people. Violence against women is an increase of 400 percent. According to Human Rights Association data, 13 children were killed in 2010 alone due to fire or mine-free explosives by security forces. The number of children killed from the Justice and Development Party's arrival in power to 2011 is 152. I'm not talking about another country. I'm talking about Turkey. I don't need to repeat what they did to the kids in Posin Prison. May I remind you of the nation? We didn't forget about Şanliurfa. We also remembered the Hrant Dink murder and his case, Uğur Kaymaz and the embarrassing defense he presented to the European Court of Human Rights for this case during the Justice and Development Party administrations. The Prime Minister talks about Hitler a lot. I'll tell you one time in Turkey, Hitler's book "The War" has made record sales in the AKP ruling period. And the second is, what is Hitler or Saddam called? Go. I assure you that the AKP power will also be remembered with pepper spray in the future. Look, from 2003 to 2010, the number of cases brought against him was 5,643 for torture, and the number of convictions was 2,858; the cases where law enforcement was tried. So, what's the number of charges against law enforcement? 104 grand, 64 grand for conviction. The value of this figure is these dear friends: unlimited tolerance for torturers during the AKP period and zero tolerances for citizens. Every citizen who makes a noise is in court. The AKP's human rights record is huge, so deal with your report card, which is filled with these fractures. Speaking of ration cards, we haven't forgotten the gas that was sprayed on the kids the day the report cards were distributed in Uludere, nor did we forget the gas that was sprayed on the elementary school kids. And are these events being investigated? No. There's no concrete judgment on the human rights violations I'm ranking, because the justice is in the hands of the Justice and Development Party's governments. And we've never forgotten that law enforcement in the previous administration has been chanting, "Fuck human rights." But now, there's something worse than the same practice. In the September 12th referendum, we will increase the employee's rights. You said, "You have banned the strike." It's enough just to show that the Justice and Development Party points to the opposite of every slogan. Since the Justice and Development Party came to power, it has demonstrated a performance in practice that would not search for previous authorities. In the beginning, life rights violations, torture, freedom of expression, environmental rights violations, discrimination imposed by LGBTT individuals, the Kurdish problem, the Alevi problem, the problems of our Roma citizens, the business killings, continue to institutionalize the primitive state understanding in almost every area. Against that understanding, of course, we need an independent, efficient, fast-working Human Rights Agency to bring out the perpetrators, but only the Justice and Development Party needs the Human Rights Foundation, which is being put in front of us with the current bill. We say that human rights are violated by states or governments, and no state or government can answer to or answer to an institution that belongs to it. So, my dear friends, why don't you withdraw this bill and we'll all sit down and talk and we'll do an ideal Human Rights Foundation together with NGOs, with our people. Dear friends, just as justice in front of a Ministry does not make the Ministry fair, human rights are not defended by saying human rights to the head of an institution. This bill must be withdrawn, again, with NGOs, with the Paris Principles, in a transparent process where we get the public's views, we need to create an independent and neutral institution together, which is a guarantee of participants, democratic, appointed, and we still have time. If asked -- the session will be closed -- we will do this work together by October, and this will be the first draft of the House to open in October. All the institutions that visit us together, but all the institutions together, we'll do the right thing. We'll tell all the institutions that will visit us. We also tell those who will write the progress report that we are the ones who are safe, the opposition parties. So don't worry, let's sit down together, we'll collect workshops until October, we'll get the opinion of civil society institutions. With a participating model, let's create a new Human Rights Foundation, where the House is active, appointed by the Assembly, guaranteed by the House. Otherwise, with your bill, you will establish His Majesty's Human Rights Institution, which will not be called the Human Rights Institution. Thank you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, you didn't see the painting I showed you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0021par0097	Not at first, thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Ertugrul Kürkçı, Mersin MP.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0022par0100	Mr. President, dear friends, in case the bill we're talking about becomes law or not law, I'd like to take it from an example of what would be the difference for our country, for our people, for those who are fighting for human rights. Engin Çeber died on October 8, 2008 in Metris Prison, after days of torture and square beating by guards. Before being put in prison, Engin Cheber was severely tortured at the Sarıyer Police Station for two days. Today, the medical examiner's report confirmed that recently, on June 18th, Engin Cheber had been beaten to death in prison by a severe blow to the brain and torso. Now, while all this was happening, there was no Human Rights Agency in Turkey. Now, we're building a Human Rights Foundation, and we've given the Human Rights Foundation the task of fighting torture, and according to this law, only the authority of this Human Rights Agency is this: it can report and complain about human rights. It is clear that this would make no difference between the situation before this law was passed and the situation after this law was passed because you can always report and complain, but a proactive Human Rights Agency, as stated in the Paris Principles, should be able to seize human rights violations that it sees fit. If we had passed such a law, the moment he received his torture, he would have immediately entered the gates of the Yellowyer police station with the executives and officers of the Human Rights Association and taken the victim from those oppressors who were tortured. As soon as he got that sense, he could go to prison and take that person away from those guards. However, now that the situation is about establishing a complaining human rights institution, this institution is a government body, it will complain to the government as an organ of the government, and it will never complain to the government, in fact, because our Sezgin Godkulu friend has made it very clear to our Commission that there have been people in all Turkey who have been fighting, struggling for the rights of the poor, the oppressed, the victims, who have been fighting for the rights of the victims for decades, who have come to our Commission over and over and over and over again and over and over again and over again. They said, we all say that human rights is essentially a concept that emerges from the conflict between the state and the individual. Man's rights must be defended against the state, because power, manpower, man-killing is in the state. In contrast, human rights are needed to defend the individual's rights, a principle limiting state power. So, when it's called human rights, we're talking about an institution that's away from the government, which has no property of the state, which has no resources of the state, but does not serve the state, which serves the entire community. Such an institution must be established. We didn't invent this in our heads. Neither have we invented the concept of human rights, since this great French Revolution, since the publication of the Declaration of Human and Citizen Rights, even before the American Revolution, the basic rule of governance of the entire civilized world. We accept this motto, and we try to include its modern progress. A human rights institution, the need for a national human rights institution, is based mainly on a general decision adopted by the United Nations on December 20, 1993. Therefore, this general council should guide and guide us to this decision. This general board decision has clear principles. If we're really going to say that there's a national institution in front of the world that protects human rights in Turkey, first of all, we need to establish an independent institution. During this discussion, Professor Naci Bostancı of the Human Rights Commission, one of the members of this commission, tried to explain that the independence of the human rights institution, as if it were a mockery to all of us, was not even part of Marxism. This is like the battle of Ali and the deputy. The deputy's army had put Koran leaves on the tip of their spears to confuse the soldiers of Ali. But it's been centuries since that war, and we're not those naive soldiers, and Naci Bey doesn't know that much about it. What we're talking about here is, if we're talking about only one relative independence with an independence, which means that, yes, this state is ultimately in control of its citizens, but a resistance from below gives it a set of institutions relative independence. Without it, there would be no independence between legislation, execution, and the separation of the judiciary. If we believe what Mr. Naci said, then we'll know that he's really talking about linking this institution to a harshest, most rude bourgeois administration. That's what the whole struggle is, and we're saying that he shouldn't be tied down here, and we're fighting for it. So it's impossible to fool us with all these concepts. We will continue to fight for it, whether this law comes out or not, but when the road is near, as our Sezgin God-like Friend says, it is possible to undo it, to recover it, because everywhere Turkey will be struck in the face. You founded a government-owned Human Rights Foundation. You say that you will follow the rights of citizens who are victims of military operations by the government with another institution of your own. We don't believe that. Do not give us an example from here; we know the situation in Turkey. It is clear that the source and centre of human rights violations in Turkey is the state itself, law enforcement forces. In fact, he wishes that this institution, which wants the welfare of the state, should not have a reputation for violations in the world, be controlled by these independent institutions and violate our minimum. But what are you doing? I've also heard the justification of this institution. The reasons included: "Look, we have given the Supreme Court the authority to oversee the Supreme Court's decisions. Thus, the number of cases to go to the ECHR will be reduced. So what you've done is you've actually put in another filter so that the consequences of an unfair judicial system don't get in the way of the world. It's just like this, you've created a government-based human rights organisation so that the violations caused by the security policies, the anti-terrorism policy, are not directly handled by independent human rights organizations, not to be carried out before the international public and the public by these organizations. What's it gonna be? Now, it's going to be said that, look, in the process of negotiating with the European Union, you asked for a national Human Rights Foundation. Didn't you want it? Here is the institution. Many years will go by until the original chapter is understood, while many human rights organizations, such as the Human Rights Foundation, such as the Human Rights Foundation, like Mazlum-der, will remain under the shadow of the national institution, whose struggles will be ignored, working with their fingernails, violence and persecution for years. So you're not just not doing one thing, you're cutting off other people's ways. As our intuitive Godlike Friend says, we say, "Come, don't do this, let's turn around while the road is near." In fact, our friends at the Human Rights Commission, our friends from AKP, from their hearts and consciences, as we do, they know that this bill is actually in this context. When we speak to each of them personally, when we speak to them, they will, on conscience, agree that this bill is not in accordance with the Paris Principles. Just by showing us some examples of negatives in the world, but it's there, look, but it's there, too. Now, look at the positive examples when it comes to them, but our conditions are special. It's called, when it comes to the most negative examples. Now, the government's withdrawal of this bill could be evidence that it is truly in a desire for human rights to improve in Turkey. In contrast, there are so many realitys that just because he withdrew this bill doesn't mean we're going to get our human rights reviews back, but this could be the beginning. The provisions of this bill guarantee the establishment of a human rights organisation of the government in all respects. Now, on our objections, the institution has divided its selection among several executives. The government will elect 7 members, 2 members of the presidency, 2 members of the YÖK and 1 member of the Bar Association. All of these organizations, even though the Bar Association is an institution founded as a professional institution, it's one of the institutions under government control, completely independent... even if it were, nothing would have changed. All 11 of these members will be members of the Human Rights Institution and will work in accordance with the government if they have the qualifications to become just civil servants without any qualifications. Now, back to the principles of Paris. We're not inventing anything, we're all referring to the principles of Paris. The principles of Paris refer to such traits as those who will be chosen as well known for their human rights struggle, the fact that they are known for their work in human rights at universities, their work, their criticism, and their theme in this field. But this bill allows the government to make whomever it wants a member of the Human Rights Institution, and I'm sure that if this law goes through, it'll be possible to see the Home Office inspectors, the police chiefs, the criminal judges, because there's no rule that prevents that from happening. Based on what, he won't do as we say? We know we've seen how the government and the president make choices during SEC assignments. Of the 500 faculty members of the university, 499 are voting for one, and one is getting the vote -- of course I'm exaggerating -- but the president does not hesitate to appoint the person who has the support of the university's minority, who has the support of that single vote or the third. In this case, there is no guarantee that he will not appoint people who are known for covering up violations to be members of the Human Rights Council. Velev has chosen all the candidates that I've shown here -- the government, the president and the CEC. I said: "Otherwise, Mehmed, Mehmet, Fatma, Ayþe, and they too have chosen." That genius doesn't mean anything. Because -- as we say down here -- their powers are restricted, so a complaint is created here. Despite our insistences, the government's stances -- as in the principles of Paris -- are being criticised -- were not put here, despite our insistence that the government could have an authority to express their opinion, to draw attention to them, to see that the massacres are increasing, to say take precautions. Now, friends, that's why it really is. We, now, will have the government's Human Rights Foundation. This Human Rights Foundation, in fact, has less authority and less power than our Parliamentary Commission for Human Rights Review, and less pluralist. At least under Parliament's guarantee, the MPs in the Parliament's power are able to be on the Human Rights Review Commission, but we can already guarantee that this will never happen here. Yes, the Human Rights Foundation doesn't have to rely directly on a political representation, but how do you view pluralism? It will be pluralist in terms of human rights approach, and how will you secure this pluralism? No way. Therefore, the request for the members of the Human Rights Institution to be elected by 2 thirds of the House was the only means to ensure both independence and pluralism. And you turned it down with a backhand. Now, what do we have left? Another state agency is being established; Turkey's state offices are being established as if their central government offices are missing. I'd say we haven't seen any other government in the history of Turkey that talks about so much decentralisation, talks about so much decentralisation, but brings so much power, so much power, so much power to the center of institutions. At the moment, many of the powers of local governments are in the government, the administration of universities is in control, the government is in control of the government, the media is under the control of businessmen close to the government, the Government of the Provinces is in control of the government. There was only one area of human rights that was not under the government's control; the government, as in all other areas, stared and took it. Just as he gazed at sports clubs, he set his sights on the human rights community as he gazed upon all independent congregations, and decided to plant his own flag here. Now, is there any good in this place? What good does the government expect from this? If not, Cetin will be able to promote Turkish propaganda for Turkey, as Altan said many years ago, and he can promote the government's government. He buys himself a mirror, looks at himself: tell him the mirror, who's the most beautiful? He says you're the most beautiful. He believes in it, but we want to hold an inner mirror to him, to see all his pimples and treat them, and he denies it, he thinks he can cover them with cosmetics; he's not invented in a cosmetic world like this. A human rights organization that says, "Who can be deceived?" Can he convince the relatives of those who have lost their lives, who have been violated by the right of life? Will Turkey convince people who get beaten up every day in prisons that they don't get beaten up in these squares? Is it going to convince them that life is good in prison, which smokes riots from the chimneys all over Turkey, or will it help them to tell their relatives that their sons and daughters are well taken care of? So let's try once again to create a truly independent institution so that we can protect human rights from the pressures of central bureaucracy in Turkey, from violations of police and military. We're in this effort, we can work all summer as long as you don't establish a government-owned Human Rights Foundation. Look, I'll tell you, the whole of Turkey will respond to the congregation when you give the Human Rights Foundation the same counterterrorism mission as Dianete. How did you get people to read terror wars in mosques, people to leave mosques, start praying on the street, that's how, as long as this Human Rights Foundation gives a human rights fetish like that, people will look outside of this institution for peace and futures, and they'll find it. Human rights struggle in Turkey has a noble and honorable history. Through this history, he must protect his rights... his people, his daughters, his sons... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He'll find another way to protect himself against persecution. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0023par0122	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0024par0123	Mr. President, I have a request to discuss the procedures of the Parliament and the procedures of the Parliament's Parliament, according to the Civil Code 63, before we pass the rights of personal words, because it is clearly written in the Interior Charter, how to take personal words, it is stated in 61, that the statement is carried out according to the order of registration and request. We're talking about the Human Rights Association here today. The Parliament where we talked about the Human Rights Foundation -- the President of the Parliament for Human Rights Review -- is also here -- is now ready for his first law, which is that he's always been auditing it, for the first time ever. The Deputy Prime Minister is here. Now, Friday, when the number was given, the House was on vacation on Friday, Mr. President, and there was not a single congressman here. There were already 3-5 people at the opening of the House, and the MPs were on vacation because there were no commissions, and there was no one there on Friday. But at the time of the number, it could be 4:15 or 18.15 a.m., I don't know exactly what the record is -- there were ninety-eight instructions from the AKP Group regarding the 279th law at that time. This ninety-eight matrix application was signed with the same pen, and only on the top, Yilmaz Bronzec has an article saying that Bart's MP delivered it, and the others were given in addition by a collective person. So each one of the MPs had to apply in a collective fashion. Now, one, the congressman is not ready. Two: not the signature of the MP. Three, this procedure has to be carried out for a personal say. Now, this Parliament, which will establish the Human Rights Foundation, must first respect its members' human rights. The CHP has 62 applications here on the same day, individual application. There are 12 of them. Look at the signatures of the CHP and the MPP. You'll see the signatures from different pens, Mr. President. Now, we've established the ethics commission in the House, the Parliament's commission to investigate human rights...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0025par0128	Mr. Kaplan, please, I'm going to open the discussion of the procedure.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0024par0129	Yes, I want a promise. In this case, you need to cancel these personal words, and I'm going to invite them to respect the law, human rights, law, and signature, to behave ethically, to keep their signatures, not to fake, not to speak human rights. I'm starting an argument for this, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0025par0131	Here, I'll give you three minutes, Mr. Kaplan. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Are you going to talk in favor or against me?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0024par0136	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we're interviewing the Human Rights Foundation. Obviously, human rights aren't really an issue. Look at this coven. How many members sit, look at the ruling ranks, and in general, if there were a vote right now, the opposition parties would be three times as many. Personal words are being taken. In personal words there's a procedure, there's a code, there's a signature, there's a demand. There are four groups here. We are gathered in the presence of the Speakership as gentlemen. We talked in groups. We thought we'd make it a matter of what's to be given and what's not to be given in personal words. We have six or seven independent deputies here. Our independent lawmakers have the right to speak. But when we bring in the Advisory Board, even though they're independent, they act ethically as if they were members of the bloc's MPs, and they don't even take a stand against the Council of Counsellors. But they're very welcome to a five-minute personal conversation. Our independent MPs can't speak. Well, if this Parliament, which will form the Human Rights Foundation, gives 98 false signatures, false individual requests to the Office of the Laws of Parliament, and gives the math, the same pen, blue, one person is allowed to speak here by signing all their signatures... there is CHP's, there's also a pledge request for mp. I'll have the entire group of vice presidents review the signatures, please check the signatures. Neither forgery nor a single MP are present on Friday, Parliament is closed and 98 applications are submitted; then independent lawmakers, other groups, and talks are interrupted. This should not be allowed by the Council of State, including the Department of Law. We've established the Ethics Commission. There are procedures for the Parliamentary Civil Charter. Every congressman here has to abide by it. It's not only ethical; it's a crime; it's a forgery, it's a fraud. You're setting up the Human Rights Foundation. At least we don't call it fraud at the Human Rights Institution. I mean, we're not having this discussion with pleasure. Even the rights of our independent lawmakers, who have a personal say in these discussions, are being revoked and ignored. As parliamentary commissions were established, membership rights were also ignored. We're not gonna shut up here anymore, guys. Either everyone, every member of parliament, will know their own law, or eight of our MPs are under arrest, and we will provide a representation of this will here, with the fact that the eight members of this House have at least more rights than those who forged these signatures. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I demand that the Presidential Court withdraw the distribution of their rights. I invite you to correct wrong.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0026par0143	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0024par0144	And I invite the House to stand by that promise.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0026par0145	Mr. Kaplan, did you speak in favor or did you speak out?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0024par0146	I spoke against him.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0026par0147	Okay.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0024par0148	It's my own suggestion. You're going to cancel this. If I spoke in favor, I'd take my word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0026par0149	I'm just saying that for the record. Okay, thank you. Do you have any other demands?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0027par0151	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0026par0152	Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, please. Against you, Mr. Elitaş?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0027par0154	In your favor, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. All decisions on who to talk to in the talks of a bill or proposal, all decisions on how to apply, all norms are written in the Civil Code. After the bill and proposal have been suppressed and distributed, lawmakers must submit to the Parliamentary Presidency. But, Congressman...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0028par0157	One by one... by their own signature.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0027par0158	No. Look, Mr. Kaplan, there's something you don't know.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0028par0160	One, one... by his own signature, not by false signature.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0027par0161	It's his signature. The signatures of our congressman friends are their own signatures. They're all their own signatures. It's just that during the budget talks...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0028par0163	Would you care for a forensic examination, Mr. Elitaş?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0027par0164	If you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0028par0165	Are you up for forensics?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0027par0166	When the Council of Ministers meets only during budget talks, lawmakers who have taken the stand on behalf of their own, and the MPs who have been appointed by the President of the Grand National Assembly at a certain time, in order that there is no immediate point of confrontation by the MPs, the lawmakers will be able to engage in their own actions only in budget talks, in order to avoid any confrontations when the person of the MP personally has left with the other MP's advisor.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0028par0167	They didn't go in person.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0027par0168	But during the last budget talks, during the last budget meeting, during our previous budget meeting, we agreed as political party groups. We said instead of meeting the MPs there at eight o'clock in the morning, their speech on behalf of the individual was in accordance with a gentleman's agreement, whether it was on behalf of the BDP, whether it was on behalf of the People's Party, whether it was on behalf of the People's Party, whether it was on behalf of the People's Party or the other political parties. Look, the rights given by other political parties are not justified by the motions or demands made by lawmakers of the EC PARTI administration; what you're doing here is a huge injustice. Our congressman friends...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0028par0169	It's not fair, I'm claiming it.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0027par0170	Look, your group can work, appeal to consultants, understand when the bill and proposal have been suppressed and distributed, which the People's Party of the People's Party is following closely, and it's going in the scope of this pursuit, and it's doing its application.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0028par0171	Mr. Elitaş, I told you something different. You don't understand.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0027par0172	But we're here to discuss a five-minute conversation within the scope of the application...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0028par0173	Not five minutes.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0027par0174	...which, if you look at the talking times, you'll see that the opposition parties are doing all the talking more.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0028par0175	Elitaş, I know the Civil Code so that we can speak as much as we want in this article, in every motion; not so. But you have to be moral, you don't have to fake it, you don't have to fake it.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0027par0176	The congressman's friends here are trying to express it as a forgery, and you mentioned the signature of a group of our vice presidents in the past term as a fake signature.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0028par0178	Here, let's do a forensics review, and I'd like to invite you to an M.E.'s office for 98 signatures. I'll apologize here.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0027par0179	I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0029par0181	Thank you. Proposal request... Mr. Kamer Young, in favor of-aleyht?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0030par0184	Against him, against him.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0031par0185	Has he ever spoken in favor?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0030par0186	Do I ever speak in favour of this AKP?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0032par0187	Against...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0030par0189	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I've just listened to Mustafa Elitaş. I, Mustafa Bey, know you well. Last semester, when I was independent here, friends, AKP people brought up all the motions, they closed all the rights, and then, if I was in the General Assembly Hall, the AKP people would come out right away, and everybody would talk -- everybody would say, "If I wasn't in the General Assembly Hall, there's no one asking; this is, once, a fraud, so it's not a normal behavior." Of course, it's not just you, it's the rulers who run the House, so if they have a say in the matter, then it's the people who want it and then they need to talk. But now you have a strategy. Now, Mustafa Bey just said here: "Sir, the opposition's speeches are more than just power." Of course, there are three opposition groups. So the Civil Code is open, every group has a right to talk about everything, but 550 lawmakers have a right to talk about it, but you always shut it down. After that, of course, when the laws are printed and gone from the printing press, some of the other groups have no idea, you send your own people there, you shut them down. Why are you so afraid? Because you're deeply disturbed by the corruption, the abuse, the unlawfulness that you've committed here. My advice to you is don't do corruption, abuse, looting, and we'll go out there and praise you. Now, look, Recep Erdogan received an award in Germany the other day. He stopped going to get a reward at the last minute, what did he say? Sir, the soldier's been martyred, I'm not going for him. Well, look, now eight of our soldiers have been killed, 16 have been injured, and 13 of our citizens have been burned alive in Urban Prison, so why don't they stop traveling then, if they really have the love of a soldier in them? If it were anywhere else, let it be that two citizens of 10 people, 5 people, died unjustly or were killed, a country, people, people with love for citizens, would come and share their pain. So you're always trying to trick people. At least know how to speak honestly when you're in public at this Turkish Grand National Assembly. I know how long you've been here... didn't your friends who went to the house vote here? What do they call it, Mr. Mustafa? Don't they call it fraud? You will go to Umre, and you will not act in accordance with the terms of Islam -- the righteousness, honesty -- that is, in Muslim terms -- when you are in prayer, you vote here. That's not gonna happen. That's not gonna happen. Such behavior is incompatible with the quality of mankind. That's why, I mean, here we know each other so well. What we're doing here... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Anyway... Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0033par0198	Thank you. Any other requests? No. Members of lawmakers are required to specify the color of the game with all and all of its articles, including the number of members in the General Assembly, including the number of members in the Court of Directors of Laws and Decisions. In tasks considered to be considered the basic law, the demands on the chapters are made from the decision of the General Assembly to be the main law. Proposal demands are not mandatory by law enforcement. The application shows that lawmakers' demands have been brought to the Chairman of Laws and Decisions. In this order, along with its distribution, lawmakers from the EC PARTY, the Republican People's Party and the National Movement Party have asked for a statement on behalf of their own. In recognition of the adoption of the bill as the basic law, it is understood that the two MPs have asked for a speech on the chapters and later handed over their rights to another member of parliament. Public officials serving on behalf of the presidency receive an objective record of the date and time. Applications are carried out in accordance with the Civil Code provisions. It also appears that party groups have made promises to each other by setting up dialogues between them. It's for your information. There's been no change in sight. [[Continue]] Hamza Mountain, MP for the Justice and Development Party Group on the entire bill. Here you go, Mr. Mountain.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0034par0211	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group over the entire bill of Turkey's Human Rights Act, 279 rows. On this occasion, one of them, my fellow citizens of Kütahya, remembers with mercy the martyrs we take to the Hereafter today, and to their families I offer my condolences and salute our great coven. The concept of human rights, of course, is based on the human phenomenon. The argument that human beings, mind - bearing, thinking, and at the same time, have some human rights because they're human beings, is the beginning of the human rights idea. Generally speaking, the right states a situation where a person can ask, suggest, and use. The state, which says it will meet people's needs, has said that they have certain rights and freedoms to come and protect them. People who see that their rights and freedom are safe have also shown their consent within social life in exchange for some restrictions, in exchange for this assurance. The facts of right and authority are actually the basis of social order. Human rights represent the rights that all humans have because they are only human beings. The basis of these rights is the understanding that man is a valuable asset. Since the beginning of our party in 2001, we have often expressed that sheikh Edebali was a human being so that the state could live. This understanding is at the root of his promise. We've never put government interests first in terms of human rights on the basis of human-focused philosophy, not government-oriented human philosophy, because for us, it's the people, not the state. The existence of a government where its people are not happy, under pressure doesn't mean anything. Although the formation of human rights as a concept began after the 18th century, the concept of human rights is actually much older. At this point in the world today, the concept of human rights is no longer a national element, but has been moved to international space because it is accepted today by the world that the highest being, the color, the language, the religion, whatever its race, has universal rights. Wherever there is a human rights violation in the world today, we can't tolerate it, we can't remain silent, just as we haven't been silent about human rights violations in Syria. Mr. President, in many areas such as economics, education, health care, transport during the AK PARTI rule, Turkey's coalition governments have won back the years they lost in time, but most of all, it has taken crucial steps to become the democratic and human rights-related state it has deserved for many years. A radical transformation in the field of democratisation and human rights has been achieved, not by the strong, but by becoming a country where the right one is strong. I want to make it clear that the results of the 2011 elections, which we've come up with by promising to build a new, civilian, democratic and human-oriented constitution, are the greatest indicator of our people's faith and trust at this point. During our rule, the Law on Information was passed, guarantees on basic rights and freedoms increased, and freedom of thought and expression expanded. The study, which we started by calling torture zero tolerances, ended systematic torture in the prisons, and reported positive reports from international institutions. The sad events of the rare have been dealt with to the end, and those responsible have been questioned. The usual determination to fight torture will continue to be constant. The sad events of the southeastern province were followed by an extraordinary state, and after 2002 there was no unsolved incident. Education courses have been opened in different languages and dialects banned in our country, which have large cultural wealth, and television channels have been opened. With the democratic opening, the unspoken, undisputed issues are discussed, debated, and the search for solutions. The 301st article of the Turkish Penal Code has been changed and many victims have been eliminated in this sense, and most of the 1,025 permit requests have not been approved. There is no doubt that Turkey is at a much better point today than in 2002, in the field of basic rights and freedoms, as in all areas. Of course, the situation is not enough. With a constitution that guarantees civil, democratic, human-oriented, individual assignments, human rights will be placed on a solid basis, and there will be no obstacle to becoming a leading country. Mr. President, the United Nations General Assembly's Decision, known as the Principles of Paris, December 20, 1993, demonstrates the basic principles for the status of national institutions established for the development and protection of human rights. In the light of the Paris Principles, this bill literally covers the Paris Principles and is an institution worthy of our country. Before I go into the details of the bill, I'm making a brief appeal to the Paris Principles. The principles for the status of national institutions, or commonly known as the Paris Principles, set standards for the establishment of authority and responsibilities of national human rights institutions, guarantees of independence and pluralism, working methods and the status of semi-judgmental institutions. Under the following principles, the national institution will be equipped with powers concerning the protection and development of the law and human rights. These principles give the institution the authority to advise or give opinion to all authorities at their request or at their request, especially the government and Parliament, on the integration of the state's international obligations in the field of human rights. The Paris Principles care for the creation of a pluralistic structure, where the members of the national institutions can be determined, where all the relevant parts of society can be represented, and the quality has administrative and financial infrastructure that can do its tasks smoothly in terms of quantity. Mr. President, the valued MPs; the draft of the Turkish Human Rights Institution Act submitted to parliament in 2009, was sent to the Constitutional Commission at the time, and a subcommittee for the bill was established and started. The Constitutional Commission has made significant changes, and the Commission's report remains unconcerned at that time. During this period, the bill sent back to Parliament on March 5, 2012 was transferred to the Human Rights Review Commission as the main commission. This bill, which is the first draft the Human Rights Review Commission has discussed, came to our General Assembly as a result of nearly three months' work, along with subcommittee work. The Subcommittee of Turkey's Human Rights Act, established within the Human Rights Review Commission, has been working for nearly two months. As a subcommittee, I have a word to say about associations, foundations, academics, barrooms, universities' human rights centers, international institutions, intellectuals in this regard, in short, anyone who says, "I have the rights to speak about it." He has listened to his last word, received his proposals, and helped them to contribute to the bill. The bill, which came into our commission as 11 clauses, was adopted into 24 articles, with the assessment of the work and the proposals made in our lower commission and our top commission, and was evaluated in the accompanying bill. The area where the criticism of the civil society is concentrated and the criticism of the opposition is concentrated is at the point of whether the membership criteria, the election criteria, the board formation, the pledge of membership, the institution and the Paris Principles that it is associated with. The Council of Ministers elects a member of the bill. The declaration has been changed in our subcommittee and later in our upper commission. With the change made, seven of the members of the board are appointed by the Council of Ministers, and two members are appointed by the President of Human Rights persons; one member is elected by the Higher Education Board of academics who have worked in human rights; one member is elected by bar presidents who have been working in this area for at least ten years. Thus, the pluralisation of the membership election is important, not by whom we listen to, but by who is chosen. The point is important, and it is important that people are chosen in the field of human rights. In addition, the Council of Ministers elects the chairman and the second president, the Council of Ministers, one of the most critical issues in the bill. The notice has been changed, the President of the Council and the Second President of the Council have been given the opportunity to choose. If all members and presidents of NGOs determine the Council of Ministers, this institution will be under political pressure. This proposal has been taken into consideration with its opinion, and changes have been made to allow the Council to operate within an independent structure. Here, just now, our friends from the opposition party have brought in some criticism about the Council regarding the election of the institution. I want to answer these issues by giving some examples from Europe, especially from countries where democracy is said to be at the forefront. In England, all members and presidents are appointed by the minister. The budget of the institution is determined by the minister. In our bill, the institution's budget is given by Parliament itself. This was adopted by the ICC in full harmony with the Paris Principles. In France, all members and presidents, let alone the cabinet of ministers, are appointed by the prime minister himself, and we all know that the prime minister's structure in France is not like ours. The institution's budget is included in the prime minister's budget. Parliament grants the prime minister a budget and the prime minister gives it to the board. We, by the Parliament itself, allocate the budget to the board, and it is also considered by the ICC to be in full harmony with the Paris Principles. Examples of this can be increased in Australia, Norway. In our bill, members are appointed by four different institutions. The president and the second president are determined by the Council itself. The budget is expressed in private budgets. I want to make it clear that this institution will be established far beyond the existing institutions. At the point where this bill meets the Paris Principles, we have no doubts. In addition, judicial assurances, the highest level of public collateral, are provided to members of the Council, thinking that members may be under frequent pressure. This is the case: The members of the board cannot be relieved of their duties in any way. They can't be caught, searched or questioned, except for their criminally ill-advised state in the criminal court. The highest security of this Council, which is working in the field of human rights and will write a report, is the best way to demonstrate our government's approach and opinion on this issue. The collateral for the judges is somehow the same as the collateral for the members of the board. We all know how appointed judges are. These are due to this assurance, if we say that the judiciary is independent and the judiciary is independent. The board has been guaranteed that its members will serve for four years, and has been placed under arrest and cannot be detained except for a felony charge. Because in light of the Paris Principles of this bill, we cared that the institution could take real independent, pluralist, democratic and civil initiative. Thankfully, we are here today to defend this bill with a clear heart, and we are trying to get it legalized. Another criticism is the matter of the institution being associated with the Prime Minister. At this point, there are three types of methods in our administrative law: one, connected; two, relevant; three, related. We cared about the weakest commitment of all, and we used it. Last week, there were similar criticisms from the opposition about public supervision, the association of the Public Control Agency with Parliament and the election of members by Parliament was criticised. I'd like to draw your attention to this, and the exact words are as follows, the expression of public supervision: ▪ What did you do it for? To protect basic rights and freedoms. Who are you testing? The administration. When, what do you do? You're auditing the head of the administration. Who are you having audited? Again to the man or person chosen by the majority. Criticism, which criticises the election of Parliament for Public Audition, is critical of today's election of the Prime Minister and the president of the other administration mechanism for the Human Rights Institution of Turkey, and Turkey's Grand National Assembly is a political institution. The choice made by the political mechanism is legitimate until the end. We're against the choice of smart men or statusists, but both the political institution, the Parliament and the administration, will always be able to choose these kinds of institutions, they must be able to. Let's let the council pick here and look for 2/3 majority. The approach is not really right. If you look for a 2/3 majority, even the slightest disagreement can cause a crisis. For example, in the third round of the 2007 presidential election, the Constitutional Court's decision led the country to a crisis, although 2/3 majority were not sought. If we associate the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey with Parliament at the same point with the public inspector, our first problem will be conflict at the point of duty and authority. They are both in charge of human rights, and if it is associated with parliament, there will be trouble at the point of duty and authority in the future. We've been running this country for ten years, and we know very well how institutions are going to be built for ten years, but those who haven't ruled this country in 60 years, or who have never run it again, may not have experience in the establishment of institutions. We have experience in this regard.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0035par0240	It's obvious how you've managed Turkey for ten years.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0036par0241	Did you come by choice?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0034par0242	With the legislation of this bill, Turkey is literally represented by the Paris Principles, transparent, liberal, NGOs...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0036par0243	Did you come by choice?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0034par0244	...a direct theme of human rights, a visionary of 2023.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0036par0245	I didn't recognize you. Did you come by choice?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0034par0246	I salute the General Assembly, wishing that the Bill of Human Rights of Turkey, rank 279, should be good for our nation.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0036par0247	I don't know, I guess you're here by choice.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0034par0248	If you've said that word to me, Mr Muharrem, I hope you realize you're insulting a congressman. There's no middle-election in this country.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0036par0249	It's not an insult.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0034par0250	I took 85,000 votes in the June 12th election, and I've been in this Parliament since the June 12th elections. Mr. Levent knows us very well.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0036par0251	It's not an insult, it's a joke.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0034par0252	I salute you all again, and salute our great coven with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0036par0254	But, look, I'm out of my mind.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0037par0255	Thank you. Zeynep Karahan Kudlu, Şanlıurfa MP who has asked for a personal word on the entire bill.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0038par0257	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have made a pledge on behalf of myself over the entire Turkish Bill of Human Rights, asking for mercy to our brothers and all our martyrs in Hakkari, and to our wounded soldiers, asking for immediate healing, and saluting your grand delegation. No doubt protecting and improving human rights is among the basic duties and responsibilities of governments. However, on the world scale, national qualified institutions such as the Human Rights Institution of Turkey, which are on our agenda today, were only started after the 90s, and these practices were encouraged by the United Nations by the United Nations, and are encouraged by its 48/134th Decision adopted in the General Assembly of the United Nations in 29/12/1993, and are also the principles of the status of human rights institutions known as the United Nations, which invite it to strengthen its existing institutions, and if it does not exist, to establish such institutions. However, 30 per cent of European Union member states still do not have an ICC-acredicted human rights institution, even in eight member states. In other words, as a reflection of the AK PARTI government's right-based political understanding of centralized rights, it is also proud to demonstrate the initiative to create a new institutional structure before many countries that will serve the goal of protecting and developing human rights at the highest level. By the way, it should also be said that the Paris Principles agree that when the national human rights institutions are established, they do not include specific models that the countries will implement, but that the countries have the right to each state to choose what is best suited for their needs and properties in accordance with the general principles established. In this context, it should also be noted that the independence and efficiency of the institution to be established under the bill we are negotiating is at the highest level. The institution has been granted administrative and financial autonomy in order to strengthen a separate, unique public corporate personality, and to further strengthen the public corporate personality. Also, the organisation of the Human Rights Institution of Turkey in the form of a special budgeted structure is consistent with practices in the world and European Union member states. The Human Rights Institution of Turkey, no doubt, has to be associated with the absolute structure of any ministry or prime minister, according to the principle and basis of governance law, but at this point, it is important to ensure that the institution is defined by the Prime Minister as the most vulnerable institution, the institution's activity and the ability to work freely. It is also a financial reflection of the same liberal outlook, when the institution has the appreciation and authority to spend the funds that are earmarked to it from the general budget. In terms of authorization, it is possible that if the board finds out that a crime has been committed during its mandate, it will be able to report and complain to the republic's prosecutors when it sees the need for it to act according to general provisions. In addition, the individual application of our citizens to the institution is an expanding approach to the pursuit of rights. So this structure, particularly torture and abuse in terms of protecting human rights, is also equipped with the responsibility to assess and do what is necessary, as we take a proactive approach to the issues that serve this purpose, to conduct education, to evaluate developments. The way members of the board are elected has also opened the way for social partners to contribute to the process, the expertise in the field has been clearly defined as an essential element, the barrooms, the Council of Ministers, the SEC, the presidency, to be able to shape its member structure through multiple channels. It has been provided for all members of the board of judges and prosecutors in our legislation for independence and collateral so that they can carry out their duties without any anxiety. The Human Rights Council, which will serve within the institution, will examine all human rights violations, especially public institutions, based on allegations such as these, and will be regarded as an expert report by institutions. So all relevant public institutions will now have a human rights report card, and this report card will be achieved in this sense, in terms of the principle of transparency, by sharing it with the public. Studies will be carried out in a wide range of individuals who have been protected from the evaluation of conditions in prisons that have once again come up in the incident in Şanlıurfa Prison, following the recent incident of the human rights organisation. To those who have lost their lives and their families in this tragic event, I would like to stress once again the need for this institution to be viewed as one of the reflections of the sincere ownership of the EC PARTI government in order for such suffering to never occur again. It is also important that the institution is equipped with the responsibility of building cooperative models on a wide range of programmes, from regular consultations with NGOs to resolving rights violations, thus securing a participating working style. But the main thing to consider here is Turkey's big change in terms of democratisation. A series of legal reforms in this country, which could have been described as a silent revolution in human rights over the past ten years, have been carried out by the initiative of the EC PARTY government. In addition to many regulations, one of the four main institutional mechanisms envisioned in human rights in advanced democracies is the legal basis for public supervision. The other human rights national institution and the structures of the national prevention mechanisms will be subject to the adoption of this bill. In order to establish the other institution of equality, studies are also ongoing against discrimination and the law of equality, and, of course, it is not satisfied with structures that will contribute concretely to this process, for example, to ensure that the law system operates more effectively and quickly; the bill for the establishment of the law enforcement commission in order to improve transparency and credibility is also on the agenda of parliament. While such and similar developments are taking place, many parallel processes are actually being conducted together; cultural rights are also good for a multicultural, multiethnic, multilingual Turkey. See, that's exactly how it's been passed down to an understanding spoken in this country in accordance with the demand of educational institutions, which has been acting as if he had committed crimes in this land for years only because he had listened to Kurdish songs, and that's how human-oriented politics, the servant, the waitress state, is dominated by this whole concept of integrity. Turkey's transformation into its strategic vision with its AK PARTI governments is stable, stressing that there is a country that will continue to own citizen-oriented politics to the end, with its community, with its demands, with its community, with its values, with its expectations, not with its expectations, but with its aims, will strengthen Turkey's journey to democracy, will continue to strengthen and strengthen; human rights in a multicultural, multilingual Turkey will be the most peaceful weapon on earth, and I respectfully salute the High Assembly, not to protect us, not from weapons.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0039par0270	What do you mean, multilingual?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0040par0271	On the whole bill, the chairman of the Human Rights Review Commission, Ayhan Sefer Sagittarius, asked for a statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0041par0274	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the Commission on the Bill of Human Rights Act 279 rows and the Commission's Report on Human Rights Review of Human Rights. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, here, before me, our fellow speakers have touched on many issues. First of all, the subcommittee that was involved in bringing this law here, we really thank our president and members, our commissioners, our government, and our esteemed Minister. It's better that the law doesn't come here. This is the first time we've set up an institution like this. So it's really important that this institution is founded, and it's coming with what it lacks. The purpose of the Law is to establish an institution for the protection and development of human rights. We're building an institution. A new institution, a new creation. It will protect and improve human rights; that's the basic goal, philosophy. Dear friends, there have been significant developments in human rights in Turkey, especially in institutionalization. This House has done it, it has contributed. Just last week in this House, the Public Control Agency is under law, and hopefully it will begin its mission as soon as possible. Again, the Constitutional Court has been granted an individual application. It will come into play on September 23, 2012, and it will appear as a door to our people. Here we are again discussing the Bill of Human Rights Law, which we care about very much. Hopefully, with your contributions and your votes, it will be legalized and passed into life. Another law-designed, law enforcement commission, and another will be discussed in our Parliament as soon as possible, hopefully, with the anti-discrimination and equality institution. Thus, June may be considered a very important month for human rights. It can be seen as a period of re-modification in terms of human rights, acceptable. Dear friends, we can also describe these institutions in the field of human rights as triads. The individual application system has been established within the judicial system to oversee judicial decisions. He will oversee the decisions of the judiciary. It's an institution we care about a lot. With the amendment, this achievement has been achieved. The Parliament established the Parliamentary Community Control Agency within the legislature last week. And now, I'm speaking in terms of management and execution -- the Human Rights Foundation is being established. So in this way, a threesome in the field of human rights has been completed within the judiciary, within the law and in the administration. Dear friends, when such a system or such an institution was needed, where did this idea come from? During World War II, there have been really, really heavy human rights violations, and many structures have been established after that -- international structures, the United Nations, the Council of Europe and so on -- with their proposals, states, within themselves, have been encouraged, recommended to form national human rights institutions, and it has been established in many states since 1945. But, unfortunately, in our country, it may be a little late, but they say, "Get better, get better, get better." Hopefully, this institution will establish and eliminate this delay. Dear friends, while the United Nations supports these processes, in fact, you're going to build an institution called motamot, and you're going to do this. These institutions are better if they stick to such principles. They have set some principles in their form. These principles are also called the principles of Paris. When we look at these principles -- I mean, we've just had reviews, we respect them, we take advantage of them, but -- let's see if this structure that we're building is really compatible with or contradicting the principles of Paris. See, the 1st principle of this Paris Principle is that national human rights institutions are established by law. So, what we do here today is we make a law, we establish a legal basis for this institution. Otherwise, it could have been set up with a regulation, maybe with a sentence, but that wouldn't have provided sufficient assurances. In that respect, we're doing exactly the right thing here today in the Paris Principle. This institution must have as broad a task as possible, he says. When we studied this law, the 4th article counted duties and powers. There's really been a lot of work here, but no, there's one thing that's missing. If you call it that, it can be added. Here, fighting human rights violations, individual application rights, some symposiums, editing, everything is installed, but if there's anything missing, they can be placed within the task and authority. Another principle is that it should have its own budget, its staff and its facility. Now, look, this law says that the Human Rights Institution, which has a special budget of its public corporate personality, administrative and financial autonomy, is established in exactly the way the Paris Principles want; it has a special budget, its own staff. One change in our commission, and we said, "Well, it's 60, it's 75, it's 75." For comparison, guys, I'm working with seven experts at the Human Rights Commission rights Commission right now, 75 staff members of this institution. From that point of view, I really think it's in line with the Paris Principles. He should be able to communicate effectively with political, social, and civil formations operating in the field of human rights or be able to represent them as pluralists in the institution. Friends in the Commission know that when this bill first came, all members were appointed by the Council of Ministers, and even the Council of Ministers appointed the vice president and vice president. However, it has been found that this may contradict the pluralism principle, and our Minister has actually contributed, and the choice of members has spread to different grounds; here are the barmen who will choose one member, the SEC will choose one member, and Mr. President will choose two members and so on. Apart from that, other assurances have been placed, such as Aman ha, that when this Human Rights Agency is in office, no one should instruct it. It has been said that the members have been given a guarantee of judgment. Look, look at the bureaucracy, judges are the ones who are the most trapped with collateral. So there's all this collateral, there's money, there's a budget, there's a building, so we'll call it work.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0042par0288	Can you tell me which judge's collateral?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0041par0289	Look, you're the ones who make these seats valuable, and these seats are valuable because you produce something. In that sense, after such assurances, of course we have the right to ask the board for a job.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0042par0290	Let him decide against one Mr. Recep.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0041par0291	In addition, he can look at the individual application. Look, he put this as an old man's principle, but here we are, the Human Rights Foundation will look at individual applications, and if there's a violation here, he'll press charges, he'll report it, he'll announce it to the public. I mean, we've even put a subject here that the Paris Principles set up as an elder. In that sense, I really think this law is in harmony with the Paris Principles. Look, now, do we really care too much about this subject, perhaps the Paris Principles? Because look, in France, for example, all of these members, the president, et cetera, the prime minister is throwing them out. You know the position of the prime minister in France, so it's almost at the minister's level. But France's human rights board received a note from the Paris Principles (A). Again, in England, all the members are appointed by a minister. When we look there, he says that the principles of Paris are in perfect harmony with the principle. Now, so if we stick to this whole Paris Principle thing too much, we can really be wrong if we just stick to one principle. Dear friends, this bill actually came to our House in the 23rd term, then -- Mr. President, in front of me -- we discussed it together in the Constitutional Commission, but then, in the 24th term, this bill was referred to the Human Rights Commission. So you might wonder, what happened in the 23rd term when the Constitutional Commission looked at it, came to the Human Rights Commission in the 24th term? Dear friends, look, the Human Rights Review Commission was established in 1990, but it was built like a one-winged plane, so it only has control clearance, but it wasn't authorized by law enforcement. So with a change we made earlier this year -- he passed through this House with your votes again, thank you -- our commission has been really strong, our Commission has gained a core commission authority, and has gained the opportunity to look at the law. That law, in that respect, was referred to our Commission and dealt with by our Commission, with the discretion of our Speaker. We've had serious work done on this Commission, thanks to our Subcommittee and its members, they've listened to a lot of NGOs, listened to a lot of people, and, along with their proposals, this law was raised to 24 articles when it was 11 articles. Many changes have been made in its true nature. Look, it's just been mentioned, the board members have been brought in to the Commission to make sure that the members of Kurul work comfortably, that no one gets orders or instructions. There's a guarantee of justice. It's about the election, and I've told you before, the Council of Ministers will appoint all 11 members. But now these members are diversified in the name of pluralism. And we listened to the civil society, and we said to the civil society, "If you have a suggestion, give it to us." In fact, if there's a way you can choose between yourselves, bring this. But they finally told us that we don't have a roofing company, so we don't have that choice and we don't have that ability. Again, it has been decided that members will be chosen from the people who are on the theme of human rights, so let no random man be chosen from the street, fill his ten years as he is chosen from the lawyers. Let him work in the field of human rights again. The provisions have been made. In that sense, we believe that pluralism and diversity have been achieved. Again, the President and his members will be elected by the Board himself, and the board will be released from within itself. In the first draft, the Council of Ministers appointed this president and deputy president, but in our current arrangement, the board will choose the President, the Vice President, and its members. Something also came up: "Can't the Parliament choose? " It may, perhaps, be considered, but there are obstacles ahead of it. Look, there was a bill from the Constitutional Court that had already been passed that the members of the RTÜK should choose the Parliament. The Constitutional Court said: "You can't give the authority which is not clearly counted among the duties of Parliament. There are Sir, there are constitutional studies, we can put this in place. You may say, but we're talking about a law that has come to us right now. I just said another angle. When we think about the trifecta, it's already a public audit bill that's going to work one-on-one with the House. Therefore, it is connected to the Parliament, but the Human Rights Institution is related only to the government or to the administration -- I say it in evidence. Sir, let's do it completely independent, not to the state, not to the... Look, 75 staff, buildings, expenses, inspections... who's gonna pay for something like this? Then there are already associations. This has already been considered and designed as a national institution within a state in other European countries. They serve three types of role models in Europe. One of them is a consultant for the government; he's on a mission. There's one -- there's the staff part like the institute -- it works like an institute; it builds panels, it broadcasts. There are also institutions that receive individual applications. When we look at Europe, one of them may have been authorized, and there are institutions that can do both. We thought he could get individual applications and work as an institution. Sir, why didn't we give counsel and authority to the government? They would have said, "Well, look, the government will consult me or consult the government at work. There would have been a one-on-one dispute with the government." In that sense, we didn't put it here on purpose, dear friends. Now, of course, a lot of changes have been made in the subcommittee, but we said, maybe it has a psychological effect: the Human Rights Institution, which is the last institution to be established and started in its work on September 23, 2012. What does that remind you of? The right to an individual application to the Constitutional Court is now in effect. So we wanted both the Human Rights Agency and the Constitutional Court to review human rights violations at the same time. Let that have a psychological effect. Dear friends, look, imagine the Human Rights Foundation in your mind, that when you put it in the center, it actually has a lot of relationships with a lot of institutions. We established a relationship with the Turkish Grand National Assembly on the subcommittee. This institution will come to the Human Rights Commission at least once a year when needed, at least once. But it's necessary, it can happen twice, it can happen three times, it can happen every month. That's how he got in touch with Congress. Again, the Council of Ministers is appointing seven of its members, and thus a link to the Council of Ministers has been established to the government. Two of the members will be appointed by our President. In this way, let the presidency be connected to this institution. What's going on out there, if you can really go over human rights violations, keep an eye on them, get some information, exchange information. That's done. Again, it's connected to the universities. We said: "One member is appointed by the Board of Higher Education, sir, among university professors who have studied in this field and have studied law and political branches." Look, we've established a connection with a science class. Again, we've made contact with the Bar Association. We said: "There will be an appointment among those who have completed ten years in their profession, who have worked in the field of human rights. There will be a contact with lawyers, lawyers, lawyers, the Bar Association, the Bar Association. He's been contacted by the civil society. Before, only those who wanted to be a member of the board were applying themselves, but there is one person who may not want to apply. We said: Let the civil society organizations, the associations, the unions, offer any one of them, and choose this person. This one was brought. Again, this institution has been given the opportunity to co-work with these NGOs. Dear friends, you can be criticized. So in the beginning, human rights associations or human rights NGOs didn't have a lot of dialogue with us or enough dialogue with us, they had a reaction to them, but we discussed them completely in the Commission, and we got all of their opinions. So the withdrawal of this law, the renegotiation, has been for two years, so rather than the withdrawal of this law, here, here, I think it's useful to negotiate. It is a law in accordance with the Paris Principles. So I wish you well for our country, for our nation. And I'd like to thank the fellow contributors in advance. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0043par0311	Thank you. On the whole bill, Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalalay asked for a word. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0044par0314	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you with the deepest love and respect. Today we are discussing an important bill in the field of democracy and human rights in our country. For the first time in our country, there is an institution called the Human Rights Foundation. And I have made a pledge on this bill in the name of our government. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, of course, today have become the most distinctive and legitimate criteria for human rights, modern, political and social order. In the international sector, their communities are one of the most important criteria for considering countries, states. It's one of the most important things to take care of in democracy. In fact, speaking to the modern world, the new language of cooperation is human rights. This has been our primary sensitivity as AK PARTY governments from the day we were formed as parties. I'm saying this on purpose. I'm saying this as someone who's been involved since the founding of our party and the establishment of the government, and especially as one of those who's trying to give the most strategic contribution in this dimension. So it's the most important sensitivity of our governments. In fact, when it comes to democratisation and human rights, the 58th government -- as it turns out -- the quick start of the process of the European Union and so on -- let's take our democratic steps faster, and let's get the European Union wind behind us. So in general, the EC PARTY period is, of course, a period of democratisation. Mr. Halaçoglu made very good statements in the first part of his speech, the assessments of our history... thank him very much. So human rights is the essence of our civilization, our own civilization. There have been several references to Sheikh Edebali. Of course, we can say those concepts differently. Let them live, that they have meanings. Glory to man, that the state may be exalted and so on, but his son-in-law and his disciple Osman Beye, the founder of the Ottoman empire, says: "My son-in-law, has become a new ruler." The first days of the empire, the early years - be careful. That will is a wonderful thing. ▪ Cherish man first. Cherish a man, if he is not satisfied, the state will not be strong. First, one will be pleased, happy. His confidence in the government and the government will grow, and then you will be stronger. And given our civilization, our history, these precious friends are the essence of our civilization.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0045par0319	It's the opposite of what you said. Pity!
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0044par0320	And believe me, in the time of our own governments, there are popular, unpopular, inadequacies, it's a process of human rights, democraticization, there are always the best of them, but we've always been looking for the best, and we've tried to establish the infrastructure of this as much as possible here. I'm not going to go into them now, I'm not going to list things that have been done in the last ten years here, but most of us already know that. In this June, when our Parliament is about to end this year of legislation, it is a joy to have important institutions of human rights established in our Parliament, in the High Assembly, and to have important laws discussed. We too desired it as a government. Here, last week, ombudsman's office, public supervision, was held in the High Assembly, accepted. In 2005, we passed the law on him, but he vetoed the previous President, and the Constitutional Court has not been given such a position in the Constitutional Court. He called it off for a reason. And therefore, on September 12, 2010, the Constitutional Amendment became an ombudsman's constitutional institution and now its law has been passed. Now, hopefully, if the Human Rights Foundation gets out of the House on this occasion, if the High Assembly agrees, the law enforcement mechanism will follow. Which is very important, especially in law enforcement, we're bringing in a new mechanism for citizen relations. I had him prepped during my Ministry of the Interior, but he came to the House, became a bitch; now he's back, I think he's coming to the Board. And of course, we consider the 3rd and 4th judicial packages very important. So the third judicial package, especially immediately, is on the agenda of the General Assembly... so that there are a lot of dimensions of human rights -- there are a lot of human rights -- that's where important projects are being discussed these days. Dear lawmakers, I thank my friends for speaking on behalf of the groups, who have basically explained to our friend and the President of the Commission the very dimensions of this bill, but I would like to rephrase a few issues. Of course, you have to take a good look at this bill when you're considering it, so it's going to be said here, there may be a lot of positive-negative things about it, but a good assessment, when a careful assessment is done, it's really a step forward in our country, it's a step towards human rights. So we're building an institution, not just in terms of welcoming the United Nations Principles of Paris. I mean, even the name of such an institution in this area, of course, represents Turkey's sensitivities. So instead of all and none of his evaluations, let us consider: Could there be positive, good things, and other things? Like, what could it be? Here, Congress...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0046par0326	13 people wouldn't be burned in Urbana Prison.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0044par0327	Let Parliament choose at work, Parliament... even one of our deputies said: "You are afraid of our MPs, you do not get the Parliament elected. "Our beloved MP, Godkulu, has a good book on human rights, I value it very much, but we've explained it in the commission. Dear friends, Congress is important to us. Congress, everyone. Guys, he's represented here. So our most important sensitivity as government and party is the guidance of the nation and the will of the House.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0047par0329	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0048par0330	Is that why you're bringing him in as the basic law?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0044par0331	We care very much about bringing everything to the House.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0048par0332	Then why are you running the country by law?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0044par0333	Now, about that...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0049par0334	The parliament is the AKP's...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0044par0335	...we might have thought about it, and we might have thought about it, but our Commissioner Ayhan Bey has just expressed it, and I'm reminiscing about the ombudsman issue, and Burhan Hodja is here, and they know very well that you can only serve the Parliament with the Constitution, and you can't serve with the law. So the law and Congress can't do their own duty. The Parliament was not given a mandate in the Constitution. Oh, the new constitution is being made, so let's give it to him, and let's give it to him in the new constitution and let him choose. I just gave an example of ombudsmanism. In 2005, we made the Ombudsman's law, out of this House, gone. At the time, the President of the Constitution said to the Parliament, such as appointing an ombudsman in this Constitutional Court, and he sent it to the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court cancelled it. And then we made it a constitutional institution. So, believe us, we sincerely express this as always, as the government, as the party, all of these issues should be the main solution to the matter of Parliament, the decision-making parliament. Because that's the essence of democracy. We're open to that, and I'm just saying, let all our parties know, and we'll do something about it. So if it's wanted for this institution, the Constitutional Compromise Commission can be brought up and this Parliament can be elected. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, this institution is an independent, autonomous, private budgetary institution. These concepts are special budgetary, etc., our Parliament knows, our budgetary Parliament, our budgetary Parliament, our special budgetary... of course, they're very specific statements in the administrative system. In fact, we've been in charge of this, and we've been getting funding from the general budget, and we've tried to make it the most independent institution of all. This, of course, came to the House in 2010, and then became an ox, and brought it back. The reason we brought it back exactly is that it might have been a little bit of work, but it was delayed, so we contributed as a government in the subcommittee, which has been changed a lot, so it's pretty much changed from the bill that came to Parliament in 2010.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0050par0339	You've even made independent institutions dependent!
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0044par0340	Now, valued lawmakers, look, we're putting this on September 23rd, because it's the beginning of a new history of human rights in a sense in Turkey. So our Constitutional Court will start receiving the first individual applications from September 23rd. You know, with the amendment to the Constitution on September 12, 2010, we now have a human rights court...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0051par0341	Is the application paid, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0044par0342	I mean, the Supreme Court became a human rights court, and it took two years...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0051par0343	How much is the application?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0044par0344	...now that two years are over and the Constitutional Court will start receiving individual applications in September.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0052par0345	To avoid going to the European Court of Human Rights, you set up that rule to intercept it, which was made for him.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0044par0346	The human rights court will serve, and that's when our human rights institution will begin to function, and ombudsmanship will be established.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0052par0347	You have brought only that rule to intercept the ECHR, to distribute rights, not to distribute justice. You did it to prevent applications to the ECHR.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0044par0348	Hopefully, this will have worked out as a big mechanism in our country. Dear lawmakers, of course, you have to see that human rights court property very important, so, you know, we have international problems there. In that sense, you have to see him, to be honest, important. Now, there's one thing that's been criticized here, and I want to make it very clear, especially in this time period. Look, here, the ombudsman selects the House...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0053par0351	But he doesn't choose a qualified majority, Mr. Secretary; he chooses power, actually, power.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0044par0352	...but we're building a new institution parallel to it. This comes from different institutions. Here, I've just stated, we can't give this mission to Congress, but here, we're giving it to institutions like the Council of Ministers, the President's office, the NGO, the Bar Association. Dear friends, may I say that in Turkey, perhaps the property of our country, I sincerely say this... Mr. Ayhan has just expressed that he is appointing ministers of the Human Rights Foundation. He said that in England, and in France, the Prime Minister is not the Secretary of Ministers.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0054par0354	In England, it's not the minister, it's the parliament, it's not the right information.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0044par0355	That's correct, and I've identified it.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0054par0356	Parliament is throwing, it's not accurate information, it's not the minister.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0044par0357	Now, dear friends, of course, the whole country has been examined. Oh, maybe Turkey's situation is different. So, where the members are assigned, we sort of do the evaluation a little bit, depending on the way they're assigned and where they're assigned. But the truth is, that's when I worked when RTÜK depended on me. In many countries of Europe, I looked at it and looked at it and looked at it, and the ministers of communication are throwing out members of RTÜK-like organisations.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0055par0358	How is it connected? He's independent, isn't he? How is RTÜK up to you? You admit it, it's up to you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0044par0359	Now, what matters is the principles and the qualifications and the work of the appointed ones. Dear President, dear lawmakers, look, we're the government: we don't build these institutions to deceive ourselves.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0056par0361	You're setting people up to cheat.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0044par0362	We're building these institutions to get further distance in the field of human rights. If you bring a person to a place, a general manager at your disposal, or a government, let alone a connected organization, that's connected, not even to the institution, who doesn't do well, who doesn't work according to those principles, who isn't efficient, who isn't qualified, you'll fail yourself. It's cheating on yourself. I mean, we're not that kind of government, we want to be successful. We want to do good work in the field we work in. So if you don't give the trust to your master, you fail; that's a clear measure.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0057par0363	But you can't!
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0044par0364	Now, what we're saying here is that we've talked to international institutions, we've talked to NGOs.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0058par0365	Who's going to transfer it, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0044par0366	In this area, we have six-seven basic civil society organizations working on human rights, all of which I have very good contacts, all of which we've interviewed.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0058par0367	Our theme for who?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0044par0368	You'll see, this will be a very important human rights protection mechanism for Turkey, you can be sure of that. We'll do all we can on that. Later, my friends expressed the weakest contact in the public. Connected, not relevant, connected. It's just that, you know, a minister has to defend his budget in Congress, and other than that, he has nothing to do with the PM's office. In our case, the relevant institutional specimens are the upper boards. There are organizations that are concerned, let's say TRT is the organization that's involved, that are related organizations like BDDK or something like that. They have nothing to do with authority or authority. We have that independence... and the members of this place, of course, guaranteed almost independent rule.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0059par0371	Are there any guarantees left in the judges?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0044par0372	In that sense, I believe it will be a productive institution, and for the first time, the Human Rights Review Commission, as a primary commission, is a study of itself in the High Assembly, so that a institution related to its design, so that it can be legalized, that it works. I wish you the best for our Human Rights Review Commission. This council will inform this Commission at least once a year and will also inform the Human Rights Commission and hold a meeting with NGOs working on human rights three times a year. We're going to run all those mechanisms here, I assure you. We're going to be here to provide all the talks, all the contacts about that area. This, of course, is not a judicial mechanism. There's judgment, we have judgment.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0060par0375	What judgment, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0044par0376	He's getting an ombudsman application. He's his own...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0061par0377	Special authorities are violating human rights, Mr. Secretary. How do you explain that?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0044par0378	And here we're moving forward with the inhibitor function, the inhibitor... Look, I believe there will be an important service for the representation of social pluralism, which will conduct education and awareness activities to increase human rights awareness, to prepare projects, to co-operate with universities, NGOs, international institutions, public institutions. I'd also like to also say that we have laws in particular, and we have international contracts that we sign, especially the United Nations Convention on the Protection of Torture and so on. He will also oversee the implementation area of all of this, and in international or national evaluation reports, the opinion of this place will be taken, which means Turkey will contribute, which means it will file a report. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we would like you to contribute with all these qualities, so we would appreciate any further contribution from our House.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0062par0382	If you contribute to our proposals, we will contribute to you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0044par0383	The goal of all of us here is to get further distance in the field of human rights... And sometimes there are arguments like, "Ombudsmanship, what is the need for Human Rights Institution?" What is the need for arming surveillance? In countries like Turkey, I believe that there's no harm in different mechanisms like this, so it would be helpful if they could all get a little more control. For him, there may sometimes be conflicts within these areas. So the ombudsman's office only gets applications, this place doesn't.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0063par0385	There's no conflict, there's only one decision, no conflict.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0044par0386	This place is gonna go down on everything he's ever witnessed. He'll be fine here, don't worry about it. So I'm saying that by sharing these kinds of institutions amongst themselves, hopefully they'll contribute to the development of consciousness and practice in the field of human rights in our country. Thank you very much for your support, and I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0064par0389	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Malik Ecder Özdemir, Sivas MP who has asked for a personal word on the entire bill.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0065par0392	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the current bill of law. I salute your high council. Before I begin my speech, I ask God's mercy for the martyrs who lost their lives in Hakkari. I offer my condolences to our nation. Dear friends, our friends earlier described the painting the Parliament was in. We're discussing human rights at empty tables. We've just heard from Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, who is more than a dear member of the AKP, listening to our friend Mr. Zeynep Karahan. I have a feeling that I wish I could take Miss Zeynep by the hand and take her to the prison of Sanliurfa, where we went yesterday with the Commissioner.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0066par0395	To your hometown...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0065par0396	I think you might have heard the cries of the people who were hurt there, of the 13 people who burned themselves alive, of the families outside, of the mothers outside.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0067par0397	We hear these cries better than you do, we do what is necessary, and we strive to do so. It's not because you said it, it's because...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0065par0398	I wish I could take you to Mardin Prison where we went two weeks ago so you could see the drama in Mardin Prison. If you had a conscience, you wouldn't be able to come and talk about it so easily. Dear MPs, 62 women remain in the barracks of 20 people in Mardin Prison. Congressman, 60 women remain in the ward for 20 people!
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0068par0401	In a year's time, two new prisons will be in the ministry in Urbana.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0065par0402	There are girls hired from Dicle University, brought in, housewives, over sixty-five-seven years old...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0068par0403	Admit we did what we had to do, then talk.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0065par0404	...five women were in Mardin Prison and five arrested women there are being tried on charges of being members of an illegal terrorist organization.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0068par0405	So you're just talking, but we're producing work, we're building solutions because we're really feeling pain, not our language, but our heart, our mind.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0065par0406	Congressman, I'd like to tell you about Turkey's painting, and I'd like you to listen with the courtesy of a lady.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0068par0407	We listen, but you don't tell the truth, you twist the facts, you try to roll up the sun with clay.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0065par0408	Turkey's painting isn't what you described, it's not what the Deputy Prime Minister described. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, we can talk about everything on this bench, we can talk about inflation values, we can talk about the cost of life, we can discuss poverty. If you look out your own window, you may be right, but this government has no right to talk about human rights.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0068par0412	That's the most you've got.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0065par0413	If in this country, you, us, the people on the street, are listening to my phone. If every citizen living in this country is afraid of what case he's going to be accused of tomorrow, there's no way to talk about justice, law in this country, if he's afraid that he's going to appear in court tomorrow with anonymous tip letters, confidential witness statements. We may have all been wronged from time to time, we may have been abused in police stations, we may have been wronged in government offices, but there was a feeling in our hearts that if I went to court, justice would be served and we would get what we deserve.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0069par0414	You were saying, we weren't.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0065par0415	Today, in this painting you have created, there is no trust in justice. The state, on the contrary, has become an instrument of injustice, free from the distribution of justice. You're not supposed to brag about this painting, you're supposed to be ashamed. In this country, first, we want free education for students who distribute brochures. You have made the students a member of the terrorist organization, you have made the housewives. In Mardin Prison, you made Cemile Yasar, 70, the director of the terrorist organization. Not enough, former military commanders became members of the illegal terrorist organization, former Chief of Staff became members of an illegal terrorist organization. Be wary of God, such understanding, such logic as this is going on in Turkey, no sensible person has the right to speak of human rights, democracy, and advanced democracy on this stand. When you came to power, there were 49 thousand prisoners and prisoners in prisons, and now there were 138 thousand. You're correcting my number, the last time you paroled, the numbers in the prisons are now 126,000. Congressman, yesterday, we entered the ward where 13 children were killed, where it still smokes. There's six of them, now 18 of them, in a ward that's built for three. What kind of human rights is that? What kind of democracy is this?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0070par0418	What if we're building two new prisons, how do you describe this phenomenon?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0065par0419	How's that for understanding?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0070par0420	We're doing two new prisons to solve the problem.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0071par0421	Don't make a prison, fix the conditions.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0065par0422	You created this painting, you!
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0070par0423	He's been tendered, he'll be in the service in 2013.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0072par0424	Who runs this country, who?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0065par0425	You're running this country, Mr. Vice Prime Minister...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0070par0426	How can you ignore such a will?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0072par0427	Congressman, who runs Turkey?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0065par0428	You can talk about other things, but about human rights...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0073par0429	Congressman, please...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0065par0430	AKP has no right to speak.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0074par0431	God will provide you with their homes.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0075par0432	We're doing two modern prisons, one in Urbana, one in Siverek.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0076par0433	And what are you defending? Oh, my God!
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0077par0434	And in private court, Turkey, you have an eyebrow over your eyes that criticizes you. He has declared anyone who says, "Obviously guilty."
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0075par0435	You're just talking and talking and talking and talking to throw mud!
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0078par0436	If it's so comfortable, may God grant you a share! So what do we do?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0077par0437	Now, our Commissioner is here. Congressman, I was a member of the Human Rights Commission last semester. We've been to 30 prisons. We've been to 30 prisons, every prison we've been to, three times as many prisoners and convicts as possible. We visited Potty Prison in 2010. Not only did I visit, we visited with AKP MPs. In the barracks, sexual harassment can be all sorts of abuse. We said, "You didn't pay attention." When the rape of children exploded in public, you immediately closed this prison. If the Minister of Justice were here, I'd ask, we've been to Van M Type Prison. On April 20-21, 2009, we went with AKP MPs. It says here: there are 18 different types of wards. The institution's capacity is 375 people. In 2007, some bunks were turned into three floors, and the capacity was increased to 520. In April 2009 -- when we go -- there are 716 people in the institution. And again, in this report, we said: "Van is an earthquake zone." This prison must be destroyed immediately under very bad conditions, but the Ministry of Justice has not moved. When that earthquake took place in the van, we're following from the newspapers -- the prison wall collapsed, over 200 prisoners and prisoners escaped from prison. Now, I'm asking Mr. Secretary, at that time, it's still in the press that some of those who escaped from prison returned of their own free will. So, how many people aren't coming back? How many people have escaped from Van M Type Prison, who are still on the run? Mr. Vice Prime Minister, I'd like to know.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0079par0439	He doesn't know.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0077par0440	Again, we went to Gaziantep Type E Prison. 550 people remain in a capacity prison of 1,650 people. That's where our commissioner lives. These numbers are not the numbers I distorted, but also the signatures of our AKP MP friends in this report. We went to Osmaniye Prison. There are 1,212 people left in the prison of 650 people. There's a lot of fun in prison. Everyone who goes to prison gets robbed naked, butt examined in this prison in this day and age. If you're not ashamed of this painting, if you're out here talking about human rights despite this painting, you have no self-respect, my dear friends. Now, you have to talk for hours about the painting in Urbana. For whatever reason, 13 young people took their own lives. Every person in the prisons, regardless of their crime, is entrusted to the state and the government. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, if you couldn't protect the 13 lives entrusted to you, could there be a greater reason for your resignation? When I saw those wards, I thought of the Madimak massacre. There was still smoke. In Madimak, 35 people searched for eight hours - perhaps you were not in power, but the government. If in one country the government can't distribute justice, take all the rest of the services and steal them! (CHEERING) That's not understanding! It's the sense of justice that holds people together in a country, justice. If people lose that feeling, then there's no point in talking about development, the divided path in that country, the economy in that country, and frankly, you'll be the last victim of the injustice you've created today.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0080par0444	You're still threatening me.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0077par0445	If you can't bend and close the congregation's wrist -- I'm telling you from this bench -- you and Mr. Prime Minister will be the last defendants of the special court, then there will be no one to defend you in this country. So...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0081par0446	If we're guilty, we're ready to be tried.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0080par0447	You're threatening me!
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0077par0448	I want justice here. I'm not threatening you, I'm showing you the next painting.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0080par0449	We're trying to keep this justice.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0077par0450	If you don't remove the special authority courts today, you'll be the last accused they've ever tried, Mr. Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0082par0452	You'll be happy, you'll be happy.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0077par0453	I know you can't afford it. Once again, I urge you to put an end to the unlawfulness, injustice in Turkey. This bill, Mr. President, will be no different from the institutions that have been established so far. It's obvious from the lines of Parliament. I respectfully salute your grand delegation with this nature of law offering.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit02spe0083par0456	Thank you. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0083par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 122nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 279. The commission and the government are in place. The talks on the entire bill were complete. There will now be a 20-minute question-and-answer procedure. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0084par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the Deputy Prime Minister, the struggle for human rights is a voluntary, religious, civilian, risky, daring business. If you look at the Human Rights Association and the MaZLUMDER, you can see how many of them are in prison, how many of them are still on trial, how many thousands of cases have been filed. Doesn't this new Turkey Human Rights Foundation look like it's sort of a taltif, a position of office, a position of office? Again, it is said that the 5th Amendment (c) of the members to be elected here cannot be chosen against state security, even if it is a year and more, even if it is an intentional crime. So, according to this bill, the Prime Minister was tried at DGM earlier than 312, and he can't be a member of this institution, but he can be Prime Minister. What kind of contradiction is that, can you explain that? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Second, why didn't you take these human rights members?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0085par0012	Thank you. Dear Light... Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0086par0015	Thank you, Mayor. 1) Is there any negligence in the attack on the martyrdom of eight of our soldiers in Dağlıca? 2) How were the terrorists who carried out the attack and reportedly entered Turkey from northern Iraq undetected by the Herons? 3) How did Heron not notice a large group of heavily armed terrorists watching and setting the stage for the slaughter of civilians? 4) Why did the eye that saw the smuggler not see the terrorist? My respects.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0087par0021	Thank you. Mr. Tuncel...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0088par0023	Thank you, Mr. President. As you know, today is World Refugee Day. Those who have the most problems with human rights are refugees. In particular, there is a directive issued by the Ministry of Interior concerning refugees from Syria to Turkey. What does this directive contain? And human rights agencies want to know about this directive, why isn't it shared, why is it classified? In other words, Mr. Secretary has stated on the stand that the third and fourth judicial packages will be brought up. The biggest violation of human rights in Turkey is actually the Law Against Terror. Do you have a study on the removal of the Anti-Terror Law in this fourth harmonisation package or in the third and fourth harmonies package? Another issue is the subject of prisons -- also expressed on the wing -- is a very serious problem. Especially with women in Maraş Prison and Malatya Prison.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0089par0028	Thank you. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0090par0030	Thank you, Mayor. In these 279 rows, there is an expertise in human rights. Does Turkey's higher education system and curriculum include a degree in human rights expertise? What universities have a master's degree in human rights and a PhD program? Is there any preparation or initiative to open these programs? What college department graduates can be admitted to human rights expertise and grad school programs? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0091par0033	Thank you. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0092par0035	President, thank you, thank you. I'd rather ask Mr. Secretary a question at the center of the House than ask him. The laws keep coming out, the upgrades are being made, the people voted for us. They make up political political elites, high positions, but martyrs, separatism, poverty, corruption, riots in the prisons, forest fires, land roads, traffic accidents, so agriculture, farmers, and tradesmen don't go well. What kind of government is that? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0093par0038	Thank you. Mr. Aksoy...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0094par0040	Thank you, Mr. President. Some time ago, as Erzurum crossed the street in Karayazıt, a boy named Joseph Snake died a terrible death as he was hit by an armored car called. I want to know what's been done about him. On the other hand, a tragic incident occurred just yesterday at Istanbul Fatih, at around 2:30 p.m., exposing police terrorism in Turkey. One person was beaten in front of his wife and children by seven or eight police officers dressed in formal clothes, and as if it wasn't enough, the person who was then lifted up was taken to a lonely place and badly beaten in the car. What do you think of that? There are also women's wards in Marash, and Malatiah.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0095par0045	Thank you. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0096par0047	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in your earlier speech, when RTÜK was attached to me, do you really think the Human Rights Council will be an independent committee, and since you've already established independent boards under a law, do you think that the two members of the Human Rights Council will be elected by Presidents of the Council of Ministers, seven members of the Council of Ministers, one member of the Council of Ministers, and one member of the Bar? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0097par0050	Thank you. Mr. Ascendant...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0098par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, do you think that the establishment of the Human Rights Foundation would mean anything to the officer, the laborer, the trade unionist, the students who wanted to have free education, the elected mayors in prison without evidence, without suspicion, because they were members of a terrorist organization, and without special officials who persecuted them? Do you intend to remove the special authority courts, or do you want them removed?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0097par0054	Thank you. Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0099par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary: We're hearing studies regarding the transfer of recently convicted terrorist leader Abdullah Ocalan to another type F prison. Does your government work on this? If so, what is the purpose of these studies? What will he serve, who will he serve? I want an answer to that. And you're both the spokesman and architect of the opening that began two years ago by the government, which I think has been a failure. Is this opening still going on? If this opening isn't going on, if it is, will we be able to hear it from you as the spokesman for the opening?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0100par0059	Thank you. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0101par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'm not really saying this as an accusation that upsets all of us, but I'd like to know that the incident at the Şanlıurfa Closed Prison does not suit Turkey. When building the Human Rights Foundation, one's right to live is one's responsibility to keep the human alive, to the people who run the country. Everyone was talking about the fact that this jam in prisons known all over Urbana, or almost everywhere in Turkey would reach such an event. Do you take any political responsibility for this incident? Do you think you owe people and society an apology? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0102par0064	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0103par0066	Thank you, Mayor. Is there an arrangement for payment between $130 and $160 a month based on population density in the neighborhood chiefs' area? If so, is a grant from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Interior being transferred because of this arrangement? If the grant is being transferred, why isn't it paid to the chiefs? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0104par0069	Thank you. Mr. Kaleli...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0105par0071	Thank you. Will Turkey side with the Treaty of Missing Persons? Are you going to start a study to ensure that crimes against humanity does not have a statute of limitations, that mass graves are opened in the proper manner? U.N.... do you think there's a comprehensive arrangement for the prevention and investigation of illegal, arbitrary and judicial executions? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0106par0076	Thank you. Mr. Light, last question.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0107par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, is it true that a columnist in the Yanya newspaper last week has agreed that members of the Turkish Armed Forces working to fight the terrorist organization will be tried for war crimes? Has such a statement of agreement been approved or negotiated in PKK-MIT talks? Second: Are the messages from the social media accounts of Abdullah Ocalan, who continues to run the terrorist organization from prison, being checked? Messages from his Twitter account last week meant that the government would take the guerrilla off the mountain within two months if it fulfilled certain promises. Do you have a promise to Ocalan? What are these messages?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0108par0081	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0109par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, some of the questions are about our Justice Department, maybe not what we can answer. I'm starting with the first question: this is the Human Rights Council, you know, could it be a place of human reward? I just expressed it in my speech. Hopefully, we think of this institution as a very effective human rights institution, a mechanism. You'll see, when this place is set up, when it starts working, it's going to be very specific about that. The second question: is there neglect in mountain? There are questions about the mountain, and so on and so forth about the herons. Dear friends, of course, there's been a treacherous terrorist attack. I myself was there yesterday, and went to Highova. Over there, with the command committee, we listened to our Chief of Staff, his friends, his friends, both living and present. Of course, these cases are being investigated. This is the responsibility of the armed forces, but the information we're getting there, the information we're getting from you right now, the information we received yesterday -- fresh information -- yesterday afternoon: of course, our soldiers there actually fought a successful battle here. Of course, about half past three in the middle of the night, assault, a very serious collision there. I've come to the conclusion that in the things that I've been listening to in there, of course, our soldiers are actually fighting a successful battle there, but other dimensions are researched. We ask for God's mercy again, and we have 16 wounded, and three of them are a little heavy. We visited them at the local hospital in Van. We received information from the doctors. May God heal them. The other wounded are lighter. Another question is about the refugee law, which is about the generalization. I don't quite understand him, but I'll also be happy to report that a bill on immigration and refugees was adopted today at the Internal Affairs Commission, which means that I worked during my Ministry of Internal Affairs. He's very important to Turkey. We don't have an immigration and asylum law. There are regulations in different laws. For the first time, such a tidy, all-encompassing law will be on the agenda of the Grand Assembly, the General Assembly. It's about the fourth package, of course, the third, fourth judicial package is important, both of which are democraticized packages, and the trial process that speeds up the judiciary. ▪ Is there a Anti-Terror Law there, too? The basic feature there is in the fourth package of judgment -- yet, of course, it hasn't been finalized, it hasn't become a bill -- but what we think is that there are studies that make it even more possible to separate thought from violence as much as possible -- the expression of nonviolent thought. Our congressman has a question about human rights expertise. Of course, it's in all the ministries, institutions now, so it's not as an education, but, of course, when he's an expert, he's got his own thesis or something. Let's say the State Planning Agency, you know, was one of our important institutions, there was a master of planning, we were doing a thesis there, they were preparing a thesis, and then they became experts in exams. I mean, that's what's gonna happen in this area. Which university, which college, that means there's no limit to the law. Whichever one he needs, he gets the assistant specialist in that field. Sometimes he needs a sociologist, sometimes he can be a psychologist, sometimes he can be a lawyer; the institution will determine him by what he needs; he's our approach. Here, of course, it's about different events... so there could be mistakes in many places, there could be irregularities. So I saw on TV today, the police incident last night in Istanbul -- a friend. Of course, that's not something to be approved of, our esteemed congressman, which means it's done as it is, and the Home Office has already appointed an investigator. You know, right now, the punishment for torture is too severe. It was held in 2005. In the new package, we also remove the statute of limitations. There -- the penalty for deliberate injury, then, irreparable, unregisterable -- therefore, on this occasion, the trial has never been filed for torture in Turkey in the last two years, and there is no one going to the Human Rights Court in Turkey, so with those measures we've taken, because the punishment has become too severe. There are also things that are necessary, that are not covered up by mistakes. Are these independent institutions connected? We have the upper board, the institution, the board authority, they're eight of them, and RTÜK is one of them. So this is going to be a really independent institution, like them, and we believe in it. It's about these special authority courts -- of course, this may be a bit on the sidelines of the issue, but our Prime Minister explained it, so we explained -- there's a work being done in our Ministry of Justice, so let me put it this way. There's a decision made by our Prime Minister and the government on that subject, there's determination, and it's going on. There's a question about the Imralı, the prison somewhere else, the type of F... we've explained before, and then our Prime Minister was asked that, too, he said. We don't have that on our agenda, dear friends, let me express it. It's a question of our Democratic Open, National Union and Brotherhood Project. Of course, our National Union and Brotherhood Project and our policies on it continue, dear friends. Our fight against terrorism has many dimensions, one of which has security, other than that, of course, social, political, legal dimensions; it is carried out with determination. And all of the work we've done so far, and I personally, as responsible for all of that work, I'll do it today, even if it's today. All we care about is saving Turkey from this terror, living in peace and brotherhood in the country. There are things we cannot compromise, the unity of our country, our nation, the integrity and the law. All our struggles run in this frame, and we will continue and continue to do so with the same determination and determination to resolve these problems. It's about the neighborhood chiefs, in fact, that's been studied within the Village Code. During the time of my Ministry of Interior, the Village Law was studied and included in it the subject of the chiefs, because its place is in the Village Law. There will be an arrangement, but that bill is still not in Congress. Other than that, there are questions about prisons. I can't answer them now, of course. There's war crimes against the Turkish Armed Forces and so forth... of course, we don't know where they're being taken from. It's not what we know, what we hear or what we think, it's probably what someone invents. The system we run is very clear. As president of the High Council for Anti-Terrorism, the contact, trust, coordination between our institutions is at its most effective. Here we were yesterday, our Chief of Staff and the Joint Chiefs of Staff, all of us at the same time, in the early morning, all of us at the top of the hill. These are important sensibilities, so don't worry about it. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0110par0101	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The question-answer process is complete. Thus, negotiations on the entire bill are completed. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now we begin negotiations on chapter one. The first part covers the 1st to 14th article. Levent Gök, Ankara MP who has asked on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the first chapter. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0111par0110	Mr. President, before I speak, I'd like to correct a mistake in an answer given by our Minister. Minister, you have just stated that Turkey has not made decisions made by the European Court of Human Rights regarding torture.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0112par0112	The case hasn't been there in the last two years, so I'll fix it.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0111par0113	Yes, but my data, unfortunately, is not so, Mr. Minister, that the European Court of Human Rights in 2011 constitutes the most violated rights order of the European Court of Human Rights as 28 per cent, the right to a fair trial, the right to torture, inhuman and degrading treatment, 25 per cent.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0112par0114	There's been no trial in the last two years.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0111par0115	Moreover, these documents are a document from the Prime Minister's reports and information. We know you're the Deputy Prime Minister, so I've found it appropriate to share this information with you in the Prime Minister's reports. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're discussing an important law today, but I'm afraid this law doesn't really understand the attention it deserves today in the House. We call it human rights, everyone talks about human rights, but in such an important law, and the government, and the Commission, I'm afraid our MPs don't follow it with enough interest, my dear friends. However, the concept of human rights is not so cheap, but many speakers have spoken of them, and human rights are an ethical value above all, my dear friends. It tells us that human rights are an ethical value, Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. What's the 1st article: ▪ All men are born equal in respect of freedom, honor and rights, and this is how human rights that have been described have come to this day, as concepts that the state has been limited in historical development, that the rights and freedoms of the individual are protected. In human rights, the state will not be protected against the individual, the individual will be protected against the state. The state can't enter the individual's field of rights and freedoms. Professor Tarik Zafer, one of the most important intellectuals that our country has raised, is caught in a small book while visiting a museum in Tunaya Paris. It is the 1791 French Constitution. He wants to study the artifact a little bit closer, and the sentence he reads freezes his blood: ▪ This book, this Constitution, is covered with human skin. It makes so much sense that the depth, the length, the length of the freedom wars, what is called freedom is not free, the cost of living is clearly understood. So, dear MPs, these struggles have led us to today's platform of democracy. The goal is to acknowledge that human beings have certain rights and freedoms with the honor of being human. There's a small world in which a man can move freely, direct himself. He didn't give them power. He has them because he was born human. Power must not enter or enter this world. The rulers are instructed to recognize these rights, protect them, and improve them. Fert fert, the common purpose of these mass revolutions has been gathered in these ideas, my dear friends. The kind of power that history offers us, kings, orders, sultans, citizens' rights, they count them as a tip, a bill of honor. What do you mean, human rights? People can have rights as much as they do, people are servants, they have no right to demand rights. Their mission is to increase the greatness and power of their power, that's all. Here, these ideas have been fought. The goal of all liberal revolutions is to break these authoritarian rules, to add to the results that have been achieved along the way, to the developments. The struggle for freedom has followed a long line of progress that continues today for human skin-covered constitutions. Dear lawmakers, the Bill of Human Rights we're discussing today is unfortunately not a law that meets the development of human rights that we just described, bringing us to the same level as democratic countries. This law is a law that was born from the very beginning by giving the executive authority of the entire body of the Council, which will oversee many antidemocratic provisions and, in particular, the rights violations of the state. Dear lawmakers, the majority appointment of the members of the Council by this law, the Council of Ministers of seven, the President of two, the President of one, and the election of the YÖK and the first of them by the bar, have been taken to Parliament today, contrary to the views of all the NGOs, the most respected intellectuals and human rights advocates we have called to our subcommittee on this subject, and the scientists who have taught us the human rights in this regard. The main intellectuals, barrooms, Bar Association of Bars, Human Rights representatives of Turkey we have heard in our subcommittee of parliament, MAZLUMDER, everyone, the Helsinki Citizens Association, all the institutions of human rights; the comet of Turkey's philosophy, Diyarbakır Bar, Ankara Bar, all the Bars, Bar Association of Bars, when they come to us; withdraw this law immediately. Turkey can't carry that burden. They said it was my dear friends. These friends of ours, these valued scientists, were told to be listened with dignity, to do so, but unfortunately, we sat in their seats together, fighting for human rights commissions, and again, our AKP members, regardless of even one of these views, brought this bill to the General Assembly. Turkey has no patience for such injustice, my dear friends. Turkey may be among the less developed countries, but Turkey is a country that wants to push its democracy forward. We will have to explain this attitude, this negative situation of Turkey, with much more pain from now on. In the Rivalry Commission, the Minister listened to us, said he was participating in some of our views, and our friends said they would do their best. But with this law, my dear friends have made the Human Rights Foundation a state in one word while the government privatises all the boards in Turkey. That's the only name for it. The Human Rights Association in Turkey has been nationalized, my dear friends. You can't explain it any other way. It is not at all possible for all members of the council to be referred to as the Human Rights Council, which is clearly under the authority to conduct it, to remain under its influence. Let's not make fun of each other here. We're all going through a human rights struggle. We've all been a part of the human rights struggle from here or here. When we say it, it's bad. But I'd like to emphasize to you, if you'd like, what was said about this bill in the European Union Progress Report. In the European Union Progress Report, it has been said that the following are not in harmony with the principles of Paris, where members of the Council are responsible for the Prime Minister in the Human Rights Act of Turkey and their members are determined by the Council of Ministers. This is exactly the statement in the Progress Report of the European Union. Well, would you like to hear the words of Jean Morris Rippert, the new representative of the European Union Commission last month? The words of the new representative who will follow Turkey are as follows: There are two key conditions in the draft of the National Human Rights Institution prepared by Turkey, and it does not vaccinate. First, this head of the institution and its members must be independent of the government; they must publish their findings, their reports independently. Second, he must have a separate budget. If this goes through, I'd like to express to you that these sentences -- we have to explain that this is not in line with the European Union's legislation, and everyone will be unhappy again. That's exactly the European Union's point of view of this bill. Let's not fool ourselves. With your contributions to our proposals as the road is near, I say we all work together to make the necessary changes in harmony with the principles of Paris, and I salute you with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0113par0127	Thank you. Atila Kaya, İstanbul MP who has asked for a speech on behalf of the Milliyetci Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0114par0130	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, before we proceed directly to evaluations on the bill, I'd like to bring to your attention the philosophical background, which is the essential basis for making any more meaningful views on the concept of human rights. Dear lawmakers, human rights are rights that are derived from the understanding of human nature and are assumed to have only been acquired as human beings. Every human being is considered to have these rights by birth without any other effort. Human nature is a cultural phenomenon, not natural nature, although it may cause a reverse perception in the minds that prefer not to question the term "natural" in the concept of human nature. That's because what we call human nature is actually the definition of human beings, and the historicality of the content of this definition shows that this is what it is. When we look at the origins of the human nature and the historical shapes in the context of meaning, we see that the greatest share of perception today is liberalism in the mind. Under contractorial theory, the person whose rights are sought is a political person, a citizen. As the night watchman of classical liberalism, liberalism, which has a tradition that extends from the understanding of state to a minimal state, has made two fundamental distinctions in defining human rights. The first is that the most basic human rights are property rights. So that even the right to law is derived from the concept of property and considered the right to possession over man's body. The fact that the founding fathers of liberalism refer to human rights only to the rights of property owners highlights the centrality of liberalism, as well as the historicality of the concept of human rights. The second fundamental distinction is that human rights are wanted to be defined on the axis of a state-country conflict of interest. The less government, a product of this effort, has an anarchist tone in its motto, but in today's world, it is no longer surprising that libertarians and anarchists meet at some points. However, logical and historical savings prevent further progress from this movement point. It must not be forgotten that the concept of the yurtstones can only come out as a derivative of the concept of the state. The effort that this warning requires from us should result in more states, more citizens. The opposite should never be overlooked by fewer states and fewer citizens. Dear lawmakers, we believe that the Liberals seem to have forgotten the nature of the state of nature that they've established in the origin of community contract theory. It is necessary not to view the state as an obstacle to human rights, but as a source and security of human rights. The biggest obstacle to this view is the destruction of the actions of underprivileged and manipulative governments, which must be eliminated through their rehabilitation or miss. One of the most important reasons that gives birth to this perception is that the officer in almost every position and place can make himself a state. This is one of Turkey's most important problems, a problem that causes problems. It doesn't make much sense to see the perception of the situation as solely responsible until this problem is resolved. In Turkish state tradition, it is evident that any officer of your kind, even the Turkish men of the state's administration, has neither the right nor the courage to say "I am the state." They're eager to think that way, not themselves, XIV. He should count the Louises' grandchildren. Dear lawmakers, there is also a standard for them to have the ideal content of the concepts of the government and of the citizens of human rights, which is called the independence and neutrality of the judiciary in Turkey today, which shows the insincere lack of human rights of the mind that is in the hands of political power. One of the problems that political theory faces with human rights is the state being both a party and a judge. The only way to resolve this problem is clearly the presence of a judicial order that is believed in its independence and neutrality. Dear lawmakers, I will not give an example of AKP government's practices that eliminate faith in the independence and neutrality of the judiciary because it seems pointless to me to do so in today's Turkey, which resembles a Kafka novel. If Kafka lived today and read the Silivri novel, I believe he would tear up his case, and I still believe that AKP lawmakers know more than we can give them, but they shut up. When one day comes, though, I did not know these things. I want to remind them that if there are those who seek refuge in his alibi, do not follow what you do not know, because the ear, the eye, and the heart are all responsible for him. Dear lawmakers, the principle of justice is the most fundamental principle of our faith, culture, and civilization in order to regulate social life. The most fundamental categorical distinction in our religion is the distinction of justice and justice is not only for Muslims but also for all people. The religion you believe in is worse than killing. If it can't begin by convincing you of your judgment, it must also have the right to speak of human rights. My fellow lawmakers, many of the issues mentioned by our dear friends who have just spoken on behalf of their party, are indeed very justified criticisms of the content of this bill. First of all, when I was on the subcommittee, we listened to valuable agencies and individuals who came to our Commission and were competent, specialized in human rights, who actually had the savings of many years in this regard. What the representatives of our NGOs who came to the first meeting said was that this bill is far from meeting the expectations of society, and that international contracts are contrary to the spirit of agreements, inadequate at the point of meeting them, so withdraw this bill. The fact that this bill will be adopted in this manner is not in the same way that you misbutton the first button of the shirt, as in that sequence of mistakes that went on and on, the coming out of this bill -- as I have just explained -- is not in the capacity to respond to social expectations because of its shortcomings at the point of fulfilling functions that were expected of it. Thus, the bill must be passed by making a study in the process of making this bill into a bill that can reflect the views of all these parts. But unfortunately, with the majority of AKP-led friends in the Commission, this bill came before the Turkish Grand National Assembly, with changes that we can describe as making up, not so much of a touch, not too much of an impact. So the state of this bill, as I have just expressed, is incomplete, inadequate, because it cannot carry out all the things that are expected of it. Therefore, considering that you high-profile MPs of the Turkish National Assembly should pay attention to this issue, at least as we move on to the following articles of the bill, I respectfully salute your high-ranking delegation as we consider the criticisms, warnings that these NGOs and valuable experts have made regarding this issue, in light of them, will be useful, will be efficient, and will carry out the required functions.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0115par0143	Thank you. Iğdır MP Pervin Buldan has asked for the Peace and Democracy Party Group on behalf of the department.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0116par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have been promised to talk about the establishment of the Turkish Human Rights Institution, part one of the bill. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are the biggest problem of our country where no progress has been made, rights violations. Both domestic law and international law are the biggest interests of Turkey. It is a violation of human rights. Therefore, it is imperative that an institution be established with state support for the development and protection of human rights as important transformations of political quality are needed. However, the fact that a state-owned institution in this country is based on its independence has a right to bring with it some concerns, especially when it's based on human rights. We, as a nation, are well aware that the state itself is the greatest violator of rights. Is it an institution that, through its own power, will protect the rights of its citizens, despite its own wrath, the rights of its citizens, any practice contrary to humanity's universal values and universal human rights criteria? If it's about human rights, we'll have a sign for it. As a product of a classic state practice in the terms of it, this law has been downloaded to the General Assembly today, and that's the main issue. Yes, dear lawmakers, there's no need for a long line of rankings here. We all know the enormous extent of the government's activities on the rights of the government, which is in power. As a matter of fact, we're on the fast track to doing Earth degrees on this. We're all watching together, and we're alive, watching the government take over from the bishops of September 12 coups, signing practices that wouldn't have searched for 30 years ago. Here, at least the inevitability of democracies, even from the roof of this Parliament, shows that the state of this state has gone further than ever before when it comes to the status of the person who has been sent illegally under this roof, even though thousands of voters have been elected to be held in prisons and elected as deputy. As a matter of fact, this illegality has been implemented in our local governments. Tens of thousands of our mayors, our chosen ones, have been harassed and arrested. The last time our Van Mayor was arrested and relieved of his post, the municipality of Edremit was transferred to AKP. This extortion on the will of the electorate has reached the final point in which the state has carried itself out with the aid of this government on the matter of extortion. You have as much right as I do, and you're as human as I know you are. It's no more than the thought of an agha who says, "It's no more than the thought of our state." That's why we bear witness to the tragic consequences of this situation every day as heavy rights violations continue to slow down. At this point, the state of prisons, which are the private square of democracies, is our greatest injury. Let our country be one of the greatest tragedies in the history of the world, the state of prisons in Turkey. Just as McCarthy, a man of the dark age of American democracy, is remembered today with shame, so is the practice of the AKP today, as Hitler, who built massive concentration camps, is cursed by fascism, and these fascist practices will be cursed. Mr. President, if the government in one country has decided to shut down every opposition thought into prisons, it is as clear as the day when the bill for this rotten political understanding will be heavy if the government believes that it will arrest its citizens by arresting scientists, journalists, students, workers. The results of these practices are inhumane, as well as non-democracy. A government that doesn't value human thought, human thought, or life, causes new deaths, new slaughters every day. What kind of violence is it that 13 of the 18 people who were put in an air-conditioned prison in the heat of 45 degrees [45 degrees] of Urbana, were burned to death? How does this government manage to be so indistinguishable in the face of this violence? Mr. Ergin, Minister of Justice, explains that I am uncomfortable in my dreams. To be honest, I think you're making fun of the people, but I think I might be uncomfortable in my dream. Because if we had a minister and a government who could grieve over this very burning drama, they wouldn't have moved to our agenda every time, as a center of violence, filled with a 100 percent increase in ten years. If the Pinarbaş was disturbed by the prisoners who were burned alive in the ring vehicle, the doors would not be bolted on the prisoners during the earthquake. Our children, who were just little lambs, were not thrown in front of the rapists by the state's hand in Pozant. All these citizens would not have been arrested for decades without being convicted just to be persecuted. This corruption of justice was not to be tolerated all this time. At least the reports of the Urban Bar, Human Rights Association and the Prison Subcommittee, which foretold this tragedy that had cost 13 of our people their lives, would have been taken into account. Moreover, it would be the search for more human and more democratic actions than raising new prisons for prisoners forced to live in inhumane conditions. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, the government's attitude in the face of all these human tragedies, why are you guarding what? I'm afraid we're dealing with a government that's not responsible for anything that's going on in this country. The government, which says it is not responsible for unemployment, poverty, hunger, does not accept responsibility for the problem of democracy; it does not take responsibility for judicial executions, labor killings, children who have been murdered in Uludere. According to this government, everyone in this country jumps to death on purpose. The young man who was killed in custody has actually killed himself! Workers who die in environments where there is no safety at work have died of their own unconsciousness! During the winter, those who died in burning tents almost every week lost their lives as a result of their own neglect! Hrant Dink, for example, caused his own death because he explained his thoughts! In Uludere, children embrace death because they do not know how to step on landmines! As you know, it was first-hand, expressed by the Prime Minister, these grave statements. The police won't shoot him if he doesn't run! If he doesn't throw a rock, the Panzer won't crush it! Even if he's away from the barracks, if he doesn't play games, he won't shoot soldiers, he won't blow up bombs in his tiny little hands! If they hadn't fought over air conditioning, they wouldn't have burned to the ground in the fires, the bodies of the Jaffa prisoners! The administration of a single-handed country, which has been handed over to them, does not accept responsibility for any tragedy in the country. The problem of democracy in Syria is this government's responsibility. The internal security of Afghanistan is the responsibility of this government to provide a location for missile shields that will be used in possible attacks on neighbouring countries, but the state of the government is not responsible for those of its lives as a result of the actions of this government. This is why the situation in the country is most tragic and inextricable. This government, who considers model country in the Middle East the greatest responsibility for being a model country, is not only the perpetrator of rights violations but also the preventer of such violations because it does not consider itself responsible for its citizen's rights, his law. So, again, I would like to say that even though we are one of the most important countries in the world to protect and develop human rights, we see that this government, which does not have the responsibility to become a democratic state of law, is in vain in its human rights, as it does in its preparation. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit03spe0117par0161	Thank you. It's 20 o'clock for the merger. I'm taking a break until 00.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0117par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 122nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue negotiations with Bill 279. The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0118par0004	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0117par0005	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0118par0006	Mr. President, during the talks of the bill in the Commission, our İzmir MP, Mr. Hamza Mountain, was elected and agreed on as special spokesman for this bill. Except he didn't file a C.E.C. report. I've made a statement to make sure that this matter goes into the reports. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0117par0008	Thank you, it's been filed. Now, in chapter one, Alim Ik, MP of Kütahya, who asked for a personal word. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0119par0012	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the first chapter of Turkey's Human Rights Institution Act 279, which we are discussing. On this occasion, I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to express my opinion that such a bill is necessary for our country. However, when the examples of an institution under the name Human Rights Foundation are examined in other countries, the most specific feature of this institution is that it is an autonomous and independent institution, but unfortunately the fact that seven of the 11 members of the institution are appointed by the Council of Ministers in this bill is the most important evidence that this law or the Council established by this law was born dead in the first place. Under the Prime Minister's orders, it is good will to expect a decision from a council appointed by seven people to be made against power or to be relieved of any harm that the government does not support, in the light of the word. Let us maintain this goodwill, but in this law, I would like to say that if these regulations are not made and the opposition is not met with the necessary corrections, then the Council will not be able to perform a very important task. Dear MPs, I've just asked Mr. Minister, a columnist named Emre Dolli in the January 10, 2012, has made a claim that ten days later, this claim has not been denied in any way, nor has a statement been made to his statement. The claim is that soldiers and police serving in the southeastern part of the country will be tried as war criminals. The protocols, which have been expressed as nine articles, stated in the MIT-PKK talks, indicate that this verdict was included in the protocol submitted to the referee state by signing it.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0120par0016	They're already on trial, there's no need. They're already on trial.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0119par0017	We find it useful for the High Council and our beloved nation to explain in person the ruling party's Deputy Prime Minister. If, in this case, there are relatives of our soldiers, who have died in the name of this nation's future, the soldiers who ordered them to defend their homeland in the chain of command, the fallen policemen and their colleagues who worked together, who will be tried tomorrow as war criminals for fighting terrorism, and let's not talk about anything if the statement that this is in the context of understanding is true. Eight lives were buried today, and we have to fight for it. In other words, there is a promise of second employment promised to the families of martyrs for nearly five years. For some reason, this matter has never been brought to this great House by the government. The text, which was last claimed to have come out of the Council of Ministers, claims that the second promise of work to the families of martyrs does not include single martyrs. Then why are we martyring our young, twenty, twenty-one-year-old single children there, Minister? Therefore, this must be explained. Now, this law has a few troubling clauses. One of these is the arrangement for the structure of the board, which I've just expressed. Another, the chairman of the board, the vice presidents and other members will not be arrested, tried, questioned in any way. Is there such a judgment, dear lawmakers? Then how can you trust them? How can you bring an arrangement against the principle of equality of the Constitution to this great assembly? This needs to be removed. On the other hand, there's uncertainty about the Council providing information to the Human Rights Commission, which needs to be resolved. Our motions on this matter will be shared with you when it comes to it. I hereby salute you all again.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0121par0023	Thank you. Ahmet Salih Dal, Kilis MP, who has asked for a personal word on the department.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0122par0026	Mr. President, the institution, which will be formed, will be tasked with working to protect and improve human rights in general, to investigate and investigate claims of human rights violations in this framework, to observe legislation and implementation, to carry out information, awareness and educational activities, to make recommendations and recommendations. Our country has been frequently criticised for not having a national human rights institution so far, on an international level and especially in the process of membership in the European Union. The institution organises the establishment of the Human Rights Institution of Turkey, which has its own budget and personnel, independent, administrative and financial authority. Turkey's Human Rights Council, which is the institution's decision-making body, consists of 11 members. Two members are elected by the President, seven members by the Council of Ministers, one by the SEC and one by the bar. The president and the second president are elected by these members. Dear lawmakers, there have been criticisms that the draft bill is incompatible with the Paris Principles. However, the Paris Principles emphasize two points in the establishment of pluralism. One: National institutions must be equipped with the ability to communicate effectively with civil society forces operating in the field of human rights or the ability to represent them in a pluralistic way in the institution. The bill meets both points. In fact, the Paris Principles are recommendive, inviting and encouraging countries to establish or strengthen these institutions. Dear lawmakers, we can clearly understand how democratically ahead our country is from the Council's membership election. In France, the president and members are appointed by the prime minister, while in England, 11 board members are appointed by different authorities, while the president and the second president are elected by their choice. According to the bill, Turkey is independent of its duties and powers because it is a private and autonomous institution of the Human Rights Institution budget. No one can give orders or instructions on matters related to their duties, advice or suggestion, and therefore the independence of the institution is guaranteed. The independence of the institution can be discussed in the European Union and other countries. He believes that the Turkish Human Rights Foundation, which is very important for our country's democratisation, will do well if it becomes a law, thanks to all the friends who have worked on drafting the bill, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0123par0032	Thank you. There will now be a question-and-answer procedure on the section for 15 minutes. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0124par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I want an answer to what I just said. Are these claims true? If that's true, who did Mr. Prime Minister send as his special representative and declare that he spoke on behalf of Mr. Prime Minister in these talks today's Deputy Undersecretary -- on behalf of today's Undersecretary of MIT -- made this agreement on behalf of whom? Is that why you're fighting against this person's non-judgment? Do you intend to make a statement on that? Second, in what countries are the foreign diplomatic missions of this institution considered to be opened? The law states that it can be opened in two countries. Do you have any idea? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0125par0039	Thank you. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0126par0041	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I just asked you a question. Mr. Secretary says the boards are independent. Now, to your attention, Law 3046, the Ministry of the European Union has been granted the right of ministers to oversee all activities and operations of relevant and related organisations, and thus the financial and administrative autonomy of these institutions has been undermined and terminated. As the Minister spoke on the stand -- I don't think there was a slip of the tongue -- he used the term "RTÜK" when he was attached to me. All of this suggests that independent boards are not independent, that they work in the form of government-based institutions. The greatest quality of statesmen is to tell the public the truth. Is the Minister going to correct that? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0127par0044	Thank you. Mr. Tuncel...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0128par0046	Thank you, Mr. President. The question I just wanted to ask the Minister was incomplete. Especially in prisons, rights violations are too much, it's beneath human dignity. One of them was asked to be applied at Maraş Elbistan Prison and Malatya Prison, and women in particular object to that, about the placement of cameras in women's wards in prisons. Does that include information? With what kind of practice... is that a general procedure in prisons? Why is there a need for surveillance through a ward camera in a place that's already under control? That's a point that undermines human dignity. Second, Tekirdağ No. 2. Lu F-type Prison, it's 1700 hours again. There's an approach in the lawyer's opinion, even after 00, that the prisoner is searched naked while he's inside, which is very damaging to his human dignity. Is there any study of preventing these practices? Maybe he's the Attorney General, but he's basically the government. These are just a few examples, and in general, in prisons, these kinds of human rights violations are intense.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0129par0050	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0130par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. Our MP, Mr. İbrahim Ayhan, who was in Şanlıurfa Prison, sent me a telegram on June 13th, and this telegram, which wrote the pressures, the troubles, all of it, reached me on June 20th, seven days after the riot. I gave this to the Speaker today, the Commissioner of Human Rights. What is the reason why a telegram sent from a congressman to an MP on this matter was kept by the executives for seven days by the prison administration, and also by these prison problems? Why would prison do such an exercise? I want an answer to that if any study has been done.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0129par0054	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0131par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. I actually just answered the first question. Claims with no foundation, no wrong, no original lining. Just because people are writing somewhere... almost all of this doesn't always happen, so maybe it hasn't even been noticed.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0132par0058	Yeah, the tape comes out, what kind of place does it say?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0133par0059	But I sent it to the Prime Minister, who he called him.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0131par0060	Basically, there's no such thing as understanding, there's no such thing, there's no such thing, and there's no such thing, so let me rephrase that, dear lawmakers. I mean, it's a memorandum of understanding that's been decided, that's been decided -- we're very open on these issues -- so it's out of the question.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0132par0061	Is there a referee, a government, an interviewer? What's wrong with this referee government?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0131par0062	Where are their foreign diplomatic missions? There has yet to be a decision on that matter.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0132par0063	You won't get away with this, Mr. Secretary, you won't get away with it, never mind, you won't get away with it.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0131par0064	Foreign diplomatic missions...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0134par0065	How many times have you denied it first, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0135par0066	Congressman, please, you asked a question, Mr. Secretary will answer, please.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0131par0067	If it's my turn, if it's my turn...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0136par0068	But he's not answering the question right! Mr. President, that's not an answer.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0135par0069	But let him answer, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0136par0070	The tape comes out, everything comes out, Mr. Secretary. It doesn't exist. Is that an answer?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0135par0071	We can't dictate to the Minister what he's going to say.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0136par0072	My dear, what a man of state would say... that's not an answer!
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0135par0073	Each will answer himself. Please have a seat, excuse me. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0136par0075	Let them be honest, let them be a little, let them be honest, that's all! I want them to be as honest as they are.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0135par0076	Please sit down, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0137par0077	We, Congressman, are always honest.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0135par0078	There's no such procedure.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0138par0079	Yeah, never mind.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0137par0080	We -- believe it or not -- we're open and honest, we say what we do, we say what we do.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0138par0081	Yeah, the tape comes out, and you're saying... the referee comes out, the state comes out, the referee is the state, and you're saying there's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0137par0082	This is what I do, if I say so myself, and whether I believe or not, it is for you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0138par0083	The Prime Minister says I sent it. What do you deny?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0137par0084	Okay. Foreign diplomatic missions...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0138par0086	This goes on the House records, what do you deny?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0139par0087	Mr. Longhorn, please sit down. God, God! I sent it. It says. Mr. Secretary, come in. Please, Mr. Tallie...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0140par0090	It's about their foreign diplomatic missions... Of course, we answer with kindness, and then it's yours.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0141par0092	You answer with a lie, not with kindness!
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0140par0093	What do I say?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0141par0094	The Prime Minister says: I sent it.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0142par0095	Mr. Tallermak, you've asked a question, Mr. Secretary, and he's answering, is there such a procedure, Mr. Tallermak? Please...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0140par0096	Look, have a nice seat...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0141par0097	How's that supposed to work? Are we going to show kindness to the person who isn't telling the truth?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0140par0098	I wouldn't yell at you like that. Look, don't yell like that! Don't shout! Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0143par0100	Please sit down, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0144par0101	So you're not gonna tell the truth, and you're gonna trick us here?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0140par0102	We always say the truth. We always say the truth.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0143par0103	Mr. Secretary, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0144par0104	The Prime Minister says I sent it. He says, you say, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0143par0105	Mr. Tallback, please...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0145par0106	You didn't hide it?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0143par0107	Mr. Secretary, please respond to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0146par0108	We always tell the truth, never lie. We never lie.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0147par0109	Yeah, yeah, you told the truth at the lighthouse!
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0146par0110	May God bring about the best of those who lie! God damn it! All right?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0148par0111	Maybe he'll give me the opportunity to tear you apart!
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0146par0112	We don't lie, sir. We don't lie. We don't lie for politics, we lie for personal matters, we live honestly, we do clearly what we do.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0148par0113	Then the Prime Minister is lying. I sent him.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0146par0114	If you understand what the Prime Minister is saying, he doesn't say it. You understand him the way you want to, keep understanding him! Keep understanding as you please!
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0148par0115	The Prime Minister says I sent Hakan Fidan.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0149par0116	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0150par0117	Mr. President, they ask questions, they don't listen to answers. Mr. Secretary will answer in writing if they don't listen!
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0151par0118	Continue to understand as you wish! It's obvious what we're doing, what we're doing, understand what you want! Okay!
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0152par0120	He who lies is a scoundrel!
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0153par0121	And you can keep understanding as much as you want! What are you gonna do, beat us up, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0154par0122	Congressmans, please... why aren't you listening to the Minister's answer?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0153par0123	Mr. Secretary isn't answering, he's scolding me!
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0155par0124	It doesn't work for you, it bothers you!
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0156par0125	We're uncomfortable when he's not telling the truth!
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0157par0126	Please... this isn't the right style, Congressman.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0158par0127	Praise be to our country, whatever we do for our nation, we do for our nation, we take responsibility, we fear no one, we fear no one, whatever we do is for our country, and I do it again today. I'll do it all again, and I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0156par0129	Did you make it open before Oslo was exposed?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0157par0130	Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0156par0131	That's in Kayseri Square.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0157par0132	Mr. Longhorn, is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0159par0133	He's sabotaging it, Mr. President. He's sabotaging the truth here.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0157par0134	Please...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0159par0135	Please tell it to me, not to me.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0160par0136	The Minister is sabotaging the truth, Minister.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0161par0137	Of course, this is about Maras, Elbia, our congressman's question, and of course, let me get some information on that. Here, of course, about Mr. Kaplan, about the prison, about the lawmakers' prison, and what I can give him right now, about a private matter, I don't know about that. And there's a question here. Now, if you'll excuse me, let me explain that a little bit. A member of parliament says that these boards -- I think they mean the boards -- are not independent, but brought something like this. Dear friends, the status of the upper boards, as I've expressed, are government-related boards. These are the commitments in the state system in Law 3046 -- in the law of the binding, relevant, and related boards -- there is that law here too -- in the state system. Relational boards work independently. The relevant boards have boards of directors, but they also have contacts in certain issues. Tied enterprises, like the head office of the ministries, are all fully committed to what we know. Because I used a word here, which means that the state departments, the deputy prime minister, are being contacted by institutions. There are institutions that you're responsible for. In that sense, when I was Secretary of State, RTÜK was a contact with me. So we don't need word abuse, so it's clear what we mean, we have eight upper boards, like RTÜK, BDK, the Acquisition Agency, you know, they're all connected, and they're all the same status. The minister, who is politically committed to them, has little authority. They have their own boards, they make their own decisions. So I want to explain it here in particular. And as for what's going on here, if it's about the Human Rights Foundation that we brought in, I want to rephrase it: it's an independent institution, so it's related. He's got his own board; the law already states the duties of the board. Even the board will decide its own budget. Only the concerned, relevant minister defends his budget in the House. Other than that, the board makes its own decisions, makes all its own assignments. If you open the law like this and read it properly, you'll see. All savings are made by the board's own decisions. Just like today's senior boards. Of course, it's something that we ourselves want to make sure that the institution is especially independent, so we want to make sure that our citizens' rights to human rights violations are well protected. As a government, there's nothing more natural than us wanting to do it the best way we can. Winning people's trust, winning people's love, getting people's votes. We work for our people, our people, to provide a more human environment. That's what governments work for. What's the Human Rights Agency gonna do? He's going to set the stage, train, work for that kind of consciousness. In the end, this institution will do its best to increase sensitivity in the field of human rights. So this institution is independent, most independent... and I hope that when those members are appointed tomorrow, you will see that, hopefully, we'll be able to come to our parliament and give you some information -- valuable MPs -- in Turkey, who have worked most on human rights, who have had experience, who will actually be assigned to this place. So we're going to try to do the best there is. We want these boards, this place, the Human Rights Foundation, to serve best in this matter, because in the first place, it's in the best interest of the government to protect human rights the most, so there's nothing more natural than that. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0162par0145	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Serindağ, please.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0163par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, a member of your party recently claimed that there was an organized crime gang in Gaziantep, designed the capital, trade and politics of Gaziantep. It was in the newspapers. Gene also stated that some local politicians were involved in this organization. He even stated that he had a foot in the Police Department. What are you going to do about it? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0164par0150	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0165par0151	I don't have an answer.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0164par0152	Thank you. Time is complete.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0166par0154	Give it to me in writing.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0164par0155	Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. There are two motions on item one, which I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 1st draft of the current bill 279 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be changed as follows. (1) The purpose of this Law is to ensure the protection and development of human rights in Turkey. (2) The Law covers the foundations for the establishment of the Human Rights Institution of Turkey and its powers and duties. Intuitive God-like Malik Ecder Özdemir Levent Gök Mahmoud Tanal Hussein Aygün Orhan Dek Veli Ağbaba Melda Okur Free Special To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey I'd like to propose and change the first amendment to the current 279 rows of legislation. Yours truly. Hasip Kaplan Pervin Buldan Ertuğrul Furçı Erol Dora Sebahat Tuncel Demir Çelik 1-The purpose of this Law is to protect and improve human rights and to organize the foundations for the establishment of the Human Rights Institution of Turkey and its mandates. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0167par0178	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0164par0179	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0168par0180	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0164par0181	İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0169par0183	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 1st Amendment. I salute you all. Of course, we're talking about an important issue here, especially in Turkey, where human rights and freedoms are a serious problem, not just in prisons, but in all areas. When this government first began, the last term, rather, began to call torture zero tolerances, many times on this bench. The Minister himself has stated that they will again approach human rights with zero tolerance, especially during the opening process. From that day forward, I'm afraid the torture has turned into a torture house instead of zero tolerance. Here, people were exposed to violence because they were against HESEs, because they wanted to study in the language on the street, because they wanted to study without money, or because they wanted to study in prisons, and now people are being burned alive. This shows what has become of the human rights report in Turkey. Of course, it's important to have a board, but it's important to have an independent board that really solves problems. But unfortunately, all the laws passed here were made by the European Union. Congressmans, there's an approach here that doesn't touch the most basic problems of this country. The main problem of this country is the Kurdish issue, which will unfortunately continue to violate human rights in this area as long as the problem remains unresolved. Where there are conflicts, wars, human rights violations are the most common. This is not a unique situation for Turkey because we are fighting terror. All freedoms are being declared under the name "The Terror." Almost everyone in Turkey is a terrorist. We've become the country with the most terrorists in the world. Now, is that our question or not, or are we going to solve this problem? Now, sometimes when we talk to our friends from opposition leaders and other opposition parties, how do we solve this country's fundamental problem? There is no approach that would rather turn this problem into a point that ignores it or into more nationalistic aspects. Congressmans, are you aware that there are dozens of different identities and cultures in this country; there are 20 million Kurds in this country, these people have rights and freedom issues. These people are exposed to human rights violations every day, their rights are being revoked every day. In this country, people are declared terrorists because they want peace, because they want education in the native language. How are we supposed to settle this? As long as we don't solve this approach, as long as we don't change it, we can't talk about human rights, democracy, law, because that's exactly the approach, the terrorism approach, that's the problem. There will be tension in this country as long as we can't do that. We offer our condolences every day on this bench, isn't that our problem? So if we're going to solve this problem, everyone's going to put their hands on it, but not by being a nationalist or anything like that, we're going to come and solve this country's basic problem. Whatever Turkey has rights in this country, Kurd, Laz, Çerkek, Armenian must have the same right and law, democracy is necessary. It's not possible to eliminate human rights violations in this country unless we can provide that. Why are the prisons so full today? You've sent 8,000 BDP people to prison because they're from TK. The MPs are in prison, our mayors are in prison. In fact, it's so fast that the AKP government is getting a second-day notice before our mayor is arrested. How is that possible? Now, as long as we don't talk about these things, let's talk about human rights as much as we want, it's not just a front step. That's not intimacy. If it's intimacy, then we'll solve our problems, so that's how we solve human rights violations. If you're taking away the rights of a people, if you're taking away their language, their identity, their culture, of course, there's a major human rights violation. Now, are we going to solve this or not? Now, the most fundamental problem in this country is locked up in the Imralı today. How do we solve this problem where we make it polemic? Mr. Ocalan hasn't been allowed to talk to his family, his lawyers, his lawyers are under arrest for 11 months, and that's causing tension, deepening the war, deepening the conflict. Now, it's not just the problem of BDP, it's the problem of the whole place. If we don't want our young people to lose their lives, if we really want a democratic Turkey, if we really want the brotherhood of the people on the basis of equality, then we're going to do it, then we're going to sit down and we're going to do it together. Everyone's talking about the debate: get out of the debate table. Is the negotiation table sat down so that you can get up? There's a problem because it's not sat down, because the problems aren't solved, because we can't talk about it... it's not possible to really talk about human rights in Turkey unless that happens, dear friends. I think once again everyone should lower their hats and think about it a little bit more. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0170par0192	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 1st draft of the current bill 279 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be changed as follows. (1) The purpose of this Law is to ensure the protection and development of human rights in Turkey. (2) The Law covers the foundations for the establishment of the Human Rights Institution of Turkey and its powers and duties. Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0171par0202	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0170par0203	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0172par0204	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0170par0205	Hüseyin Aygün on the motion, the Tunceli MP.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0173par0207	Mr. President, thank you very much. At the end of a session with such abundant human rights violations, but with such poor interest in the General Assembly, we are expected to receive a similar result from the Information Information Information Board, which is likely to eliminate the excitement of the Right to Information Act. There was also a great expectation at the time, that the administration would then be audited, that the unknown secrets would be learned by the public, that the rulers would answer, but if you look into how many people are petitioning today to benefit from the Information Law, you'll find that almost no one has applied because the information learning mechanism didn't work. Dear lawmakers, there have been events in the last five days that are actually possible to see how vital the bill we're discussing is. For example, the sentence issued by Berna and Ferhat, who were punished for opening banners, was issued. The court said the punishment was not based on banners, but was fined for membership of the organisation for the signatures under the banner, as well as for the possible responses to the government. 13 people died in Urbana. We went to the prison yesterday. We entered the ward where 13 people were burned. The smell of the book, the bed, and the slippers accompanied the smell of a burnt human being, and there was a terrible sight. From there, we also went to the ward of the chosen Abraham Ayhan. Believe me, there's no way you can tell how 20 people are left in the ward for three, how they're breathing in there before you get there. Mr. Prime Minister's statement came to his cell phone while we were doing our inspection and review work there. He said all prison riots are connected to the organization. Thus, it was seen after a statement by the Commission, which would ultimately make no significance to the report he was going to make. The judiciary, which decided this morning why the mosque should be built, said that the population of the divided community has changed and that the mosque is needed. A few days ago, Didim sent a proclamation to Cemevi. He declared that he would destroy his house in thirty days, because it was on the land of treasure. Apparently, there are major problems in life rights, human treatment in prison, freedom of thought, freedom of expression, freedom of worship, and freedom of faith. The developments of the last five days that we've been summing up suggest that. But if the prime minister says, "This is related to terrorism, the prisons are not innocent." If he says, "There is no question of the account of the 13 Kurds who died in that country, there can be no negotiation on this issue, nor can prisons be humanized." Anyway, the Ministry's project to build new prisons shows that the issue is not understood, that the problems inside are not being understood. In this regard, even if you build a very good Turkish Human Rights Foundation, you can't expect democracy in that country without the principle of conduct, the relations between legislation and the judiciary, the separation of forces, an independent judiciary and transparent media. Before you, of course, Turkey was a very good country, not a democratic country, but really, you have to see with great honesty that all of the data is getting worse in terms of the data, except for the economy that you're so proud of, in fact, all the data shows that the alarm bells have been ringing in Turkey, especially in terms of 132,000 prisoners inside. The government... what are they afraid of, what are they afraid of? In a country where the institutions such as the European Union, the military, the Constitutional Court, have been neutralized and the European Union has been scolding Europeans daily, I also commend to your appreciation that Paris Principles are a deterrent, but really the prisons are a disaster, and these 13 dead should actually have led us, but let alone the 13 dead, we can't discuss the eight martyrs who died today in Dağlı. So, dear lawmakers, let's not create a new government institution that resembles disappointment in the Information Act. Consider the criticism of the opposition. Otherwise, you'll see how dysfunctional this institution is starting next week. Mr. Secretary, we'll appoint competent officers. He said he'll serve on this committee. But please don't forget what happened to Ertugrul Yalçınbayir. I salute you all. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0174par0215	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0175par0219	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit04spe0174par0220	There's also a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Tüyük, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Seşam, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Yüksel, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Tunay, Mr. Private, Mr. Moroğlu, Mr. Bridgelı, Mr. Godkulu, Mr. Turmen, Mr. Trust, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Onur, Mr. Kaleli. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0174par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 122nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The decision of İstanbul MP Celal Dinçer and his friends on Article 8 of Law Bill 279 was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... There are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected. We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on Article 9 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 9th draft of the current bill 279 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be changed as follows. (1) The institution's organisation is part of the Human Rights Council of Turkey; the Committee of Racism, Genderism and Discrimination, the Committee for Human Rights and Equality, the Committee for Research on Human Rights and Violations, the Committee for Refugee Problems and Anti-Man Trade, the Committee for Observation of Human Rights, the Committee for Human Rights Education, the Bioetic Committee and other national committees to be established in a need; from the General Secretariat and its offices, the Law Unit, the Foreign Relations and Project Unit, the Information and Public Relations Unit, the Committee for Human Rights and Documentation, the Human Rights Committee for Human Rights, and the Committee for Human Rights Committee for Human Rights, and other technicalities and other agencies. (2) Committees' mandates and powers are organised by regulations. (3) The chairman and members of the Council will be assisted by human rights experts, human rights experts, and other staff members in the implementation of the primary and permanent services required by the institution's duties. Intuitive God-like Malik Ecder Özdemir Levent Gök Mahmut Tanal Hussein Aygün Mehmet Ali Sesam Veli Ağbaba Melda Onur Free Special Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to propose and propose that the draft of the 279 rows (9) which are being discussed be removed from the bill of the law. Yours truly. Sebahat Tuncel Pervin Buldan Ertuğru Furçı Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan Halil Aksoy Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0176par0031	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0174par0032	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0177par0033	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0174par0034	I'm reading the reason: The bill does not guarantee the independence of the TİHK. The main responsibility for human rights violations is states and governments, and an institution designed to prevent violations and protect rights requires that it have an organisational model that is completely independent of the government's governance hierarchy, which can observe and oversee it from the outside. The appointment procedure the bill envisions is against the principle of independence. The bill organises the TİHK under the responsibility of the Prime Minister, the government. Any institution can only be as free as the individuals that form it. So it's very important to know which organ the appointment will be made and how the election processes will be run. The procedure for dismissal of the bill is against the principle of independence. The mandate to relieve you is closely related to the independence of a national institution. In order not to compromise independence, members of the national human rights institution must be under staff security. In order to prevent the possibility of an arbitrary termination of the president's duties or members of the Council, objective criteria for dismissal must be made clear in the law. The financial structure envisioned by the bill is against the principle of independence. According to the Paris Principles, there is a direct relationship between the fiscal independence of the national institution and its functional independence. In addition to other revenues, the bill is listed as "helps leaving the general budget." In addition, the bill is not clear on what level of financial autonomy the institution will have. This does not guarantee that the institution will have a suitable and independent budget. The CDC was designed as a presidential mechanism, such as all previous human rights institutions. If the president doesn't want it, there's almost no way the institution can work. The Bill of Law envisions a bilateral institutional structure for the CDC: the presidential system and the Human Rights Council. The bill sees a significant difference in power between the Council and the presidency, as described. The shape of the Council raises concern that it will have a function. The bill did not specify the members' selection criteria based on the Paris Principles and the functions of the TİHK. Working and fighting in the field of human rights requires that experts with different professional backgrounds and disciplines work together. The bill does not guarantee the pluralism predicted by the Paris Principles. As noted in the Paris Principles, one of the things that guarantees the independence of the national institution is the principle of pluralism of those involved within the decision-making body of such an institution. Besides, the decision-making body must be equipped with the ability to respect differences. A national institution, consisting of members of a certain ethnic, religious, cultural, or professional group, is far from reflecting diversity in society, and therefore cannot fully represent the society it comes from. The bill does not offer the CDC sufficient access to prevent human rights violations. While the bill has provided a wide range of jurisdiction for the TİHK, its jurisdiction has not been defined in specific and detailed terms, contrary to the prediction of the Paris Principles. The bill does not allow the creation of an independent, functional and effective prevention mechanism, envisioned by the UN Additional Protocol on Torture (Selected Protocol). Because the "national prevention mechanism" guaranteed independence predicted by the Selective Protocol is being made a subsidiary of Turkey's Human Rights Institution with the Bill. This means that "the process of creating the national prevention mechanism is not inclusive and transparent. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 9th draft of the current bill 279 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be changed as follows. (1) The institution's organisation is part of the Human Rights Council of Turkey; the Committee of Racism, Genderism and Discrimination, the Committee for Human Rights and Equality, the Committee for Research on Human Rights and Violations, the Committee for Refugee Problems and Anti-Man Trade, the Committee for Observation of Human Rights, the Committee for Human Rights Education, the Bioetic Committee and other national committees to be established in a need; from the General Secretariat and its offices, the Law Unit, the Foreign Relations and Project Unit, the Information and Public Relations Unit, the Committee for Human Rights and Documentation, the Human Rights Committee for Human Rights, and the Committee for Human Rights Committee for Human Rights, and other technicalities and other agencies. (2) Committees' mandates and powers are organised by regulations. (3) The chairman and members of the Council will be assisted by human rights experts, human rights experts, and other staff members in the implementation of the primary and permanent services required by the institution's duties. Sezgin Godkulu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0178par0055	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0174par0056	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0179par0057	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0174par0058	Mehmet Ali Sesam, MP of İzmir demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0180par0060	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to amendments in Article 9 of Law Bill 279. I salute you all. When I express my views on the law on human rights, I'd like to first redo a definition of human rights: what are human rights? It's people's right to ask the state for an honorable standard of living, so it's the state's right to maintain an honorable standard of living, which is called human rights. Who are we demanding? The state, we demand from the government, we say: "Give me a future that suits my human rights." So, is the law on human rights made up of civilian people instead of the required state, or is it made up of a structure of the state itself? When we give the institution we demand human rights the right to follow human rights, it's clear that we are in a very serious vacuum about human rights. Dear friends, the proposal to reject this law has been made very clear in the commission talks of this matter and the latest, addressed to this Parliament by Mr. İbrahim Kaboğlu, whom you respect very much, has been proposed to lawmakers. He said, Mr. Kaboglu, refuse this law. Why would you refuse? Because this is an institution that does a full-state job with elected members that does not contain civilian initiative. In this sense, it will not function at all. It has been highlighted in the speech of all of our friends, including the opposition MPs, all organisations have drawn attention to this point in this law. Turkey has a bad record of human rights. International organisations have very important insights, but even recent events, let alone recent events, show that Turkey needs a very important committee on the Human Rights Council. However, we can see from the practices of the past that you are not at the point of good faith. There have been studies of human rights since 90. In these studies, the Human Rights Review Board was established in the 90s. In 2001, Law 4643 and Human Rights Advisory Board were established, and this Council has not been convened for seven years, friends. What happened to Mr. Ertuğrül Yalçınyır, his efforts to work on the civilian initiative of this Council, and what happened to him in the end. Now a new board is being introduced, and in a flash, only to international institutions, we've established a board of human rights. A board is being formed to say, I sincerely suggest that the economic development of a country can be done, but the first condition for a country to become a respectable country on earth is the level of human rights. Right now, no one and no one has the right to show Turkey's position in terms of human rights levels in international institutions at a point in the third world. Dear friends, we, the Republican People's Party, have once again warned you of the need for human rights in Turkey, the establishment of a civil, independent modern institution to protect the rights of young, women, disabled, children on the street, people burning in prisons. We believe that there should be a civil government in the establishment of this institution, and that this administration should first develop a human community that respects human rights with education. With these feelings, I give you one last warning and respect.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0181par0070	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on Article 10 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 10th draft of the current bill 279 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be changed as follows. (1) The chairman of the board is also the chairman of the association. The president is in charge of the institution's general administration and representation. This responsibility also includes the operations, auditing, evaluation of the institution's work, and its mandates to be publicly announced when necessary. (2) The President's duties and powers are as follows: A) Set the agenda of the board meetings, date and time, and manage meetings. B) To include issues the board members have requested to include in the agenda until the opening of the meeting. C) To ensure the notification of the board's decisions and the public release of what is required by the Council and to monitor its applications. ) To appoint the Secretary General and the staff of the institution. D) To give the board the final version of recommendations from administrative units. e) To prepare the institution's annual budget and financial tables in line with the specified strategies, annual goals and goals. f) Co-ordinating the board and the institution's administrative units to work in a compatible, efficient, disciplined, and regular manner, solving the challenges of duty and authority among them. g) To prepare annual reports of activity, to evaluate activities based on annual goals and goals, and to present them to the Founder. H) To conduct the institution's relations with other organisations and to represent the institution. I) fulfil other tasks related to the management and functioning of the institution. (3) The President may hand over part of his non-committal duties and powers to the Vice President on condition that the Council be decided. The transfer of authority is announced to those concerned with appropriate vehicles. Intuitive God-like Malik Ecder Özdemir Levent Gök Mahmut Tanal Hussein Aygün Veli Ağbaba Melda Onur Free Orhan Decent To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey I propose and propose that the 10th article of the current bill of law, 279 rows, be removed from the bill. Yours truly. Sebahat Tuncel Pervin Buldan Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan Ertuğrul Kürklül Halil Aksoy Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0182par0106	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0181par0107	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0183par0108	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0181par0109	I'm reading the reason: The bill does not guarantee the independence of the CDC. The main responsibility for human rights violations is states and governments, and an institution designed to prevent violations and protect rights requires that it have an organisational model that is completely independent of the government's governance hierarchy, which can observe and oversee it from the outside. - The bill's appointment procedure violates the principle of independence. The bill organises the TİHK under the responsibility of the Prime Minister, the government. Any institution can only be as free as the individuals that form it. So it's very important to know which organ the appointment will be made and how the election processes will be run. - The procedure for dismissal of the bill is against the principle of independence. The mandate to relieve you is closely related to the independence of a national institution. In order not to compromise independence, members of the national human rights institution must be under staff security. In order to prevent the possibility of an arbitrary termination of the president's duties or members of the Council, objective criteria for dismissal must be made clear in the law. The financial structure the bill envisions is against the principle of independence. According to the Paris Principles, there is a direct relationship between the fiscal independence of the national institution and its functional independence. In addition to other revenues, the bill is listed as "helps leaving the general budget." In addition, the bill is not clear on what level of financial autonomy the institution will have. This does not guarantee that the institution will have a suitable and independent budget. - The CDC is designed as a presidential mechanism, like all previous human rights institutions, almost impossible for the institution to work if the president doesn't want it. The Bill of Law envisions a bilateral institutional structure for the CDC: the presidential system and the Human Rights Council. The bill sees a significant difference in power between the Council and the presidency, as described. The shape of the Council raises concern that it will have a function. - The bill did not specify the members' election criteria based on the Paris Principles and the functions of the CDC. Working and fighting in the field of human rights requires that experts with different professional backgrounds and disciplines work together. - The bill does not guarantee the pluralism predicted by the Paris Principles. As noted in the Paris Principles, one of the things that guarantees the independence of the national institution is the principle of pluralism of those involved within the decision-making body of such an institution. Besides, the decision-making body must be equipped with the ability to respect differences. A national institution, consisting of members of a certain ethnic, religious, cultural, or professional group, is far from reflecting diversity in society, and therefore cannot fully represent the society it comes from. - The bill does not offer the CDC sufficient access to prevent human rights violations. While the bill has provided a wide range of jurisdiction for the TİHK, its jurisdiction has not been defined in specific and detailed terms, contrary to the prediction of the Paris Principles. - The bill does not allow the creation of an independent, functional and effective prevention mechanism that the UN Subsequent Protocol on Torture (Selected Protocol) envisions. Because the "national prevention mechanism" guaranteed independence predicted by the Selective Protocol is being made a subsidiary of Turkey's Human Rights Institution with the Bill. This means that the process of creating the "national prevention mechanism" is not inclusive and transparent. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 10th draft of the current bill 279 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be changed as follows. (1) The chairman of the board is also the chairman of the association. The president is in charge of the institution's general administration and representation. This responsibility also includes the operations, auditing, evaluation of the institution's work, and its mandates to be publicly announced when necessary. (2) The President's duties and powers are as follows: A) Set the agenda of the board meetings, date and time, and manage meetings. B) To include the issues the board members have proposed to include until the opening of the meeting. C) To ensure the notification of the board's decisions and the public release of what is required by the Council and to monitor its applications. ) To appoint the Secretary General and the staff of the institution. D) To give the board the final version of recommendations from administrative units. e) To prepare the institution's annual budget and financial tables in line with the specified strategies, annual goals and goals. f) Co-ordinating the board and the institution's administrative units to work in a compatible, efficient, disciplined, and regular manner, solving the challenges of duty and authority among them. g) To prepare annual reports of activity, to evaluate activities based on annual goals and goals, and to present them to the Founder. H) To conduct the institution's relations with other organisations and to represent the institution. I) fulfil other tasks related to the management and functioning of the institution. (3) The President may hand over part of his non-committal duties and powers to the Vice President on condition that the Council be decided. The transfer of authority is announced to those concerned with appropriate vehicles. Sezgin Godkulu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0184par0140	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0181par0141	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0185par0142	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0181par0143	Ugur Flagtutan on the motion, Artvin.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0186par0145	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the 10th amendment of the Turkish Bill of Human Rights Act. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, before I begin my remarks, I'd like to tell you what kind of Turkey painting, what kind of human rights table we're dealing with: Turkey, which was ranked second in the European Court of Human Rights after Russia, also ranked 1st in the court's violation decisions between 1959 and 2011, with 2,404 verdicts and 47 countries. The Prime Minister's Human Rights Presidency reported the application and statistics on court decisions made to the European Court of Human Rights on the general Council of Europe and Turkey. According to these reports, Turkey is ranked second to Russia on appeals to the ECHR. When applications against Turkey were proportional to the population, the number of applications per 1 million across the Council of Europe was 79 in 2011, and the number reached 118 in Turkey. In the total number of violations made by the European Court of Human Rights between 59 and 2011, Turkey is ranked 1st among the 47 countries who sided with the agreement with the case number 2.404. Infringement decisions on Turkey constitute only 19 per cent of all violation decisions made by the court. Turkey is the most violated state as of the number of cases against it in 2011, and Turkey was sentenced by the European Court of Human Rights on charges of violating at least one clause in 2011. The rights, which were most violated between 59 and 2011, are also listed as the right to fair trial by 33 per cent, the right to property with 16 per cent, the right to freedom and security by 14 per cent. There are complaints about the right to a fair trial and the length of trial of 13 per cent of applications for our country. In 2011, the most violated rights against Turkey are again 28 per cent, respectively; the right to a fair trial constitutes a 25 per cent ban on torture, inhuman and degrading treatments, and the right to freedom and security is 13 per cent, my dear friends. Human rights violations that have existed in Turkey have continued in 2011. We're dealing with a picture of Turkey, which we've seen in places of detention or during informal detention, as well as the practice of torture and abuse that has been carried out, as well as the routine suppression of protests by excessive force. In a number of cases, government officials' statements also support the use of excessive force in law enforcement. I tried to take a little picture to show you what kind of painting we're dealing with. From the very beginning, the human rights issue continues to live with us as long as Turkey exists from the years when the republic was founded. Our congressman friends who came here also mentioned it in their talks. One of the most important institutions for us to address this problem is the need for the Human Rights Council to be an independent and autonomous institution that we're trying to create. Unfortunately, with the bill we've received today, our friends in our hesitation that we've created a new government organization, that we've created a new CIC, that we've created an independent and autonomous organization, that our lawmakers have issued warnings in subcommittee and commissions, and that's why our Ankara MP Levent Gök has tried to explain to the council how the membership assignments here are being appointed beyond independence, and therefore the autonomy institution here is facing serious danger and threat. I've studied the details of the opposition statements in the subcommittee reports and the Commission reports, even though I'm not a member of the relevant Commission. Unfortunately, the Turkish Bar Association, which I believe should be a competent organisation in Turkey, which I believe is seriously doing its warnings, has not been taken into account in the Commission's work, and we are facing serious problems. One of the most common areas of human rights violations in Turkey is prisons. Here's how last week's event in Şanlıurfa showed how we lost 13 lives. One of the most interesting events here is the fact that a year before this incident, all the details of the Şanliurfa Bar -- two and a half pages -- were ignored by the administration as to what disease is, what measures should be taken for treatment and diagnosis. I demand that these warnings be taken into consideration by our lawmakers before, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0187par0157	Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0188par0161	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0187par0162	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Gök, Mr. Tezkulu, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Special, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Sesam, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Çay, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Moroğlu, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Uður, Mr. Süyükmen, Mr. Tünce. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Commission has a request for correction. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0189par0175	Mr. President, we have a request for a correction. The 10th (a) of the 10th article of the proposed law bill (3) (a) shall be corrected in the form of οssical information (a) the οssual information (a) of the οssing of the political ibare (a) and again, we demand that the 10th article (c) be corrected in the form of (1), (6), (6), (6), (6) and (7) in the benchs (a) be made up in the subsidiary of the text (a), (1) (4), (6), (7) in the subtitles (a), and 6).
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0187par0176	Thank you. With correction, I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 11 of the same nature, which I will have read these motions in the same manner, and I will conduct them together, and I will make separate promises to those who have motions, or I will have them read their motives. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 11th draft of the current bill 279 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bill. Intuitive God-like Malik Ecder Özdemir Levent Gök Mahmut Tanal Hussein Aygün Veli Ağbaba Melda Onur Free Orhan Decent Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that Article 279 of the draft law (11) be removed from the bill. Yours truly. Sebahat Tuncel Pervin Buldan Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan Ertuğrul Kürklül Halil Aksoy Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0190par0196	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0187par0197	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0191par0198	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0187par0199	Melda Onur, İstanbul MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0192par0201	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, don't ask me if there's any unspoken human rights violations here tonight. There's a lot more, maybe very few of them have been talked about here. Unfortunately, this country is very rich in human rights violations, and there's a lot of material. I watched Room TV a few days ago. If I could just tell you about what happened there, the dialogue between the court committee and the defendants, it would be a separate session. But there's been a lot of talk about prisons tonight, there's been a lot of cases, and I don't really want to go into them at all, as a general appearance, I'd like to say a few things. I was watching TV this morning, and I saw a news report that Turkey was transferring money to the IMF. It's happy news, but we can't rejoice because in the next news -- perhaps you've seen it -- seven policemen beating a man in the middle of Istanbul, beating a man, beating a wife in front of his wife's screams, beating a father in front of her children's screams. He doesn't beat her like that, so he beats her to death, wants to kill her. What could he have done? I don't know, Mr. Secretary of the Interior, I don't know what kind of comment he'd make on a vision like this. But now, if our Home Secretary says the pepper gas is harmless, he thinks it's probably not too much damage to the police by hitting them in the back with his baton, maybe a little bit. Therefore, this attitude of our Home Secretary may be causing the police to behave this way. And I thought: "Let's raise a generation of angry people." Did the police get that wrong? I think our law enforcement understands these kinds of statements differently so that we can treat a citizen with such a grudge. The police did something else today, introduced their new baton. What kind of understanding is it to promote a baton in an environment where Turkey is in such a different psychology? What kind of mind-blowing attitude? I mean, if they're not embarrassed, they're gonna put in a couple of students, an officer, a teacher, and I think they're gonna make it a subject model, and they're gonna try those batons on them. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, we're used to these beatings, pepper sprays, of course, we're used to it; they're experimenting on everyone. Student, do you want to study without money? Cop, pepper spray, right inside, even ten years in sentence. Are you against nuclear? Pepper spray, right inside, months away from your home, your studies. So you're an environmentalist, huh? Do you remember what was done to women in Tortum, the eighty-year-old villagers? One day, I sat in the office, and a peasant called from Bağbaş, and they sent over 300 law enforcement units, and two ambulances came from the front. Ambulance guys, they're freaking out. What are they gonna do with an ambulance? I can't remember how I called the Governor of Erzurum, how I ran to the phone. Now, when you look at all of these applications, we get a very bad picture of human rights. That's what law enforcement in this country understands about human rights, unfortunately. They sprayed pepper spray on people who lost relatives in Ashkale. I gave our Home Secretary a motion to ask about this matter, and he said that such instructions were not given, but I understand that the Home Secretary's pepper gas is harmless. It must have affected them too, they made such a decision. With that understanding, there are still violations of pepper spray, as well as the baton. I'd like to borrow the statement of author Ali Tolez.... human rights, I'm the government, I'm going to get him too. Unfortunately, it's in his understanding. This general psychology doesn't make him feel free either, but, as a master says, what is freedom, if he lives, he's trapped together with the free. From this image, I wish you all a good evening and a more universal human rights assessment of the talks on the Human Rights Council.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0193par0214	Thank you. I'm running the alibi on the other motion. The bill does not guarantee the independence of the TİHK. The main responsibility for human rights violations was states and governments, which would require an institution designed to prevent violations, to protect rights, to have an organisational model that is completely independent of the government's governance hierarchy, which can observe it from the outside and control it. The appointment procedure the bill envisions is against the principle of independence. The bill organises the TİHK under the responsibility of the Prime Minister, the government. Any institution can only be as free as the individuals that form it. So it's very important to know which organ the appointment will be made and how the election processes will be run. The procedure for dismissal of the bill is against the principle of independence. The mandate to relieve you is closely related to the independence of a national institution. In order not to compromise independence, members of the national human rights institution must be under staff security. In order to prevent the possibility of an arbitrary termination of the president's duties or members of the Council, objective criteria for dismissal must be made clear in the law. The financial structure envisioned by the bill is against the principle of independence. According to the Paris Principles, there is a direct relationship between the fiscal independence of the national institution and its functional independence. In addition to other revenues, the bill is listed as "helps leaving the general budget." In addition, the bill is not clear on what level of financial autonomy the institution will have. This does not guarantee that the institution will have a suitable and independent budget. The CDC was designed as a presidential mechanism, such as all previous human rights institutions. If the president doesn't want it, there's almost no way the institution can work. The Bill of Law envisions a bilateral institutional structure for the CDC: the presidential system and the Human Rights Council. The bill sees a significant difference in power between the Council and the presidency, as described. The shape of the Council raises concern that it will have a function. The bill did not specify the members' selection criteria based on the Paris Principles and the functions of the TİHK. Working and fighting in the field of human rights requires that experts with different professional backgrounds and disciplines work together. The bill does not guarantee the pluralism predicted by the Paris Principles. As noted in the Paris Principles, one of the things that guarantees the independence of the national institution is the principle of pluralism of those involved within the decision-making body of such an institution. Besides, the decision-making body must be equipped with the ability to respect differences. A national institution, consisting of members of a certain ethnic, religious, cultural, or professional group, is far from reflecting diversity in society, and therefore cannot fully represent the society it comes from. The bill does not offer the CDC sufficient access to prevent human rights violations. While the bill has provided a wide range of jurisdiction for the TİHK, its jurisdiction has not been defined in specific and detailed terms, contrary to the prediction of the Paris Principles. The bill does not allow the creation of an independent, functional, and effective prevention mechanism, envisioned by the UN Additional Protocol on Torture (Selected Protocol). Because the "national prevention mechanism" guaranteed independence predicted by the Selective Protocol is being made a subsidiary of Turkey's Human Rights Institution with the Bill. This means that the process of creating the "national prevention mechanism" is not inclusive and transparent. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on the 12th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Applications cannot be rejected after the first sentence of Article 12 of the proposed bill 279. ▪ We offer and offer to replace the declaration with addition. Intuitive God-like Malik Ecder Özdemir Levent Gök Mahmut Tanal Hussein Aygün Veli Ağbaba Melda Onur Free Orhan Decent Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that Article 12 of the law, which is currently in session, be removed from the bill of the 279 rows. Yours truly. Sebahat Tuncel Pervin Buldan Ertuğru Furçı Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan Halil Aksoy Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0194par0247	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0193par0248	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0195par0249	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0193par0250	I'm reading the reason: The bill does not guarantee the independence of the TİHK. The main responsibility for human rights violations is states and governments, and an institution designed to prevent violations and protect rights requires that it have an organisational model that is completely independent of the government's governance hierarchy, which can observe and oversee it from the outside. The appointment procedure the bill envisions is against the principle of independence. The bill organises the TİHK under the responsibility of the Prime Minister, the government. Any institution can only be as free as the individuals that form it. So it's very important to know which organ the appointment will be made and how the election processes will be run. The procedure for dismissal of the bill is against the principle of independence. The mandate to relieve you is closely related to the independence of a national institution. In order not to compromise independence, members of the national human rights institution must be under staff security. In order to prevent the possibility of an arbitrary termination of the president's duties or members of the Council, objective criteria for dismissal must be made clear in the law. The financial structure envisioned by the bill is against the principle of independence. According to the Paris Principles, there is a direct relationship between the fiscal independence of the national institution and its functional independence. In addition to other revenues, the bill is listed as "helps leaving the general budget." In addition, the bill is not clear on what level of financial autonomy the institution will have. This does not guarantee that the institution will have a suitable and independent budget. The CDC was designed as a presidential mechanism, such as all previous human rights institutions. If the president doesn't want it, there's almost no way the institution can work. The Bill of Law envisions a bilateral institutional structure for the CDC: the presidential system and the Human Rights Council. The bill sees a significant difference in power between the Council and the presidency, as described. The shape of the Council raises concern that it will have a function. The bill did not specify the members' selection criteria based on the Paris Principles and the functions of the TİHK. Working and fighting in the field of human rights requires that experts with different professional backgrounds and disciplines work together. The bill does not guarantee the pluralism predicted by the Paris Principles. As noted in the Paris Principles, one of the things that guarantees the independence of the national institution is the principle of pluralism of those involved within the decision-making body of such an institution. Besides, the decision-making body must be equipped with the ability to respect differences. A national institution, consisting of members of a certain ethnic, religious, cultural, or professional group, is far from reflecting diversity in society, and therefore cannot fully represent the society it comes from. The bill does not offer the CDC sufficient access to prevent human rights violations. While the bill has provided a wide range of jurisdiction for the TİHK, its jurisdiction has not been defined in specific and detailed terms, contrary to the prediction of the Paris Principles. The bill does not allow the creation of an independent, functional and effective prevention mechanism, envisioned by the UN Additional Protocol on Torture (Selected Protocol). Because the "national prevention mechanism" guaranteed independence predicted by the Selective Protocol is being made a subsidiary of Turkey's Human Rights Institution with the Bill. This means that the process of creating the "national prevention mechanism" is not inclusive and transparent. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Applications cannot be rejected after the first sentence of Article 12 of the proposed bill 279. ▪ We offer and offer to replace the declaration with addition. Sezgin Godkulu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0196par0267	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0193par0268	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0197par0269	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0193par0270	Binnaz Üurk, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0198par0272	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I'd like to start with my own experience. I think it was five or six years ago -- I can't remember the exact date -- human rights commissions were set up in all the provinces of Turkey, which are governors, at the insistence of the European Union. When you look at the composition of these commissions, the members were actually very well thought out, so there were people from various institutions, various parts of the commissions, including universities. I was a teacher at Boğaziçi University at the time, joined these commissions representing Boğaziçi University, the commission in Istanbul. Now, because the European Union wanted such a commission, this commission was set up, but it's a full-blown commission. So I went first, let's announce it to everyone, put up posters, here, put them in boxes. Okay, okay, we did them. I've never even seen an ad for it anywhere. We have a full human rights commission that doesn't work. It's a commission set up. Now, just now, Mr. Hasip Kaplan said: "Maybe if something is said 40 times, it will happen." Indeed, it is true, and I will say the same thing. The choice of members of this institution, the choice of the president, the vice president and their members... now, this really isn't going to happen. See, the same thing was done in ombudsman's law, so at least in ombudsman's law, he chose Parliament, but in the fourth round, if he can't be elected, if he can't be elected, then whoever gets more votes will be elected, and he passed it that way. That, of course, means the ruling party's choice, even the Prime Minister's choice, if we've ever learned anything about the ruling party. Now, the same thing is going to happen here, where there is a committee that will be directly linked to the Prime Minister's office without consulting the Parliament, and consisting of members elected by the Council of Ministers. Now, it's really impossible for this board to work, so I've been told that many times, and I don't need to say it again. Second, there is no definition of human rights in this law. So we don't know who this law involves, what kind of situations it involves. For example, let me give you an example. Sultanbeyli is the name of the neighborhood where Alevi live. You know, Yavuz Sultan Selim Alevi is a name that almost wiped out of this geography, which is a great padishah, but it's a really offensive name for the Alevis. Over and over again, with 11,000 signatures, they went to the AKP's mayor there, and I didn't make a speech to Yavuz. He turned it down. I've already told the Prime Minister, and I've recently written a letter again. Now, is this a human rights violation? In my opinion, yes, this is a serious violation of human rights. I can give you a lot of examples like this, child brides in our country, is that a violation of human rights? Eleven-year-old, 12-year-old girls getting married. Now, if we're going to make this definition, for example, I think that any situation where the norms of the state of law don't work and don't work is going to cause human rights violations. The various examples of this were given again. So hold on to the conditions in prisons, these lengths of imprisonment, the fact that people don't even know what they're being arrested for, what they're accused of, it's something that's going to enter human rights. At the same time, lack of bureaucracy based on merit is a violation of human rights, a violation of human rights, because rights violations are on the agenda, and thousands of examples can be given in Turkey today. Indeed, one of the most critical aspects of the AKP is that it has placed its supporters in each institution, but only its own. Freedom of thought... for example, I can give you an example of Nedim Sener. He wrote a book on the Hrant Dink case. The prosecutor wants thirty-seven years, which means twenty-eight years for Ogun Samast, thirty-seven for Nedim Sener. I joined the Hopa case. Twenty-one-year-olds, half of them arrested for throwing eggs at someone at work, the other half protesting against the Prime Minister, the prosecutor wants 48 years, so there's actually a number that's gonna blow your mind.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0199par0284	Mr. President, give me half a minute.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0200par0285	If we give it to Mr. Earth, so does the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0198par0286	Therefore, the law requires both definitions, and, indeed, very well, how to select board members. Please pull this back. Listen to the opposition once in a while.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0200par0288	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on Article 13: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 13th draft of the current bill 279 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be changed as follows. (1) With the help of Human Rights Assistants and Experts and other officials, other tasks are carried out by members of the Council, with the help of the Board of Ministers, research, visit and prepare reports under these Laws and other regulations. Members of the board, authorized by the board, are authorized to seek information and documents related to all public institutions and institutions and other real and legal persons, to study them and to take samples of them, to receive written and verbal information from them, to visit the places of those who are deprived of freedom or protected, to study them, and to organise the necessary minutes here. (2) A committee headed by a board member appointed by the Council or the President can be formed to investigate and investigate matters that are under the mandate and authority of the Council. Representatives of state-owned institutions and institutions who will take part in the delegation are determined by their institutions and institutions. The results of the investigation and research conducted by the committees are made a report by the Institution. The costs of the boards are covered by the institution's budget. Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu Malik Ecder Özdemir Levent Gök Mahmut Tanal Hussein Aygun Kazım Kurt Veli Ağbaba Melda Onur Free Special To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 13 of the proposed bill 279 rows be removed from the bill. Yours truly. Sebahat Tuncel Pervin Buldan Ertuğru Furçı Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan Halil Aksoy Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0201par0313	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0200par0314	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0202par0315	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0200par0316	I'm reading the reason: The bill does not guarantee the independence of the TİHK. The main responsibility for human rights violations is states and governments, and an institution designed to prevent violations and protect rights requires that it have an organisational model that is completely independent of the government's governance hierarchy, which can observe and oversee it from the outside. The appointment procedure the bill envisions is against the principle of independence. The bill organises the TİHK under the responsibility of the Prime Minister, the government. Any institution can only be as free as the individuals that form it. So it's very important to know which organ the appointment will be made and how the election processes will be run. The procedure for dismissal of the bill is against the principle of independence. The mandate to relieve you is closely related to the independence of a national institution. In order not to compromise independence, members of the national human rights institution must be under staff security. In order to prevent the possibility of an arbitrary termination of the president's duties or members of the Council, objective criteria for dismissal must be made clear in the law. The financial structure envisioned by the bill is against the principle of independence. According to the Paris Principles, there is a direct relationship between the fiscal independence of the national institution and its functional independence. In addition to other revenues, the bill is listed as "helps leaving the general budget." In addition, the bill is not clear on what level of financial autonomy the institution will have. This does not guarantee that the institution will have a suitable and independent budget. The CDC was designed as a presidential mechanism, such as all previous human rights institutions. If the president doesn't want it, there's almost no way the institution can work. The Bill of Law envisions a bilateral institutional structure for the CDC: the presidential system and the Human Rights Council. The bill sees a significant difference in power between the Council and the presidency, as described. The shape of the Council raises concern that it will have a function. The bill did not specify the members' selection criteria based on the Paris Principles and the functions of the TİHK. Working and fighting in the field of human rights requires that experts with different professional backgrounds and disciplines work together. The bill does not guarantee the pluralism predicted by the Paris Principles. As noted in the Paris Principles, one of the things that guarantees the independence of the national institution is the principle of pluralism of those involved within the decision-making body of such an institution. Besides, the decision-making body must be equipped with the ability to respect differences. A national institution, consisting of members of a certain ethnic, religious, cultural, or professional group, is far from reflecting diversity in society, and therefore cannot fully represent the society it comes from. The bill does not offer the CDC sufficient access to prevent human rights violations. While the bill has provided a wide range of jurisdiction for the TİHK, its jurisdiction has not been defined in specific and detailed terms, contrary to the prediction of the Paris Principles. The bill does not allow the creation of an independent, functional, and effective prevention mechanism, envisioned by the UN Additional Protocol on Torture (Selected Protocol). Because the "national prevention mechanism" guaranteed independence predicted by the Selective Protocol is being made a subsidiary of Turkey's Human Rights Institution with the Bill. This means that "the process of creating the national prevention mechanism is neither inclusive nor transparent. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 13th draft of the current bill 279 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be changed as follows. (1) With the help of Human Rights Assistants and Experts and other officials, other tasks are carried out by members of the Council, with the help of the Board of Ministers, research, visit and prepare reports under these Laws and other regulations. Members of the board, authorized by the board, are authorized to seek information and documents related to all public institutions and institutions and other real and legal persons, to study them and to take samples of them, to receive written and verbal information from them, to visit the places of those who are deprived of freedom or protected, to study them, and to organise the necessary minutes here. (2) A committee headed by a board member appointed by the Council or the President can be formed to investigate and investigate matters that are under the mandate and authority of the Council. Representatives of state-owned institutions and institutions who will take part in the delegation are determined by their institutions and institutions. The results of the investigation and research conducted by the committees are made a report by the Institution. The costs of the boards are covered by the institution's budget. Sezgin Godkulu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0203par0336	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0200par0337	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0204par0338	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0200par0339	Kazim Kurt, Eskişehir MP, who wants to make a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0205par0341	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 13 of Bill 279. I salute you all. Our Parliament, which worked until four yesterday, will hopefully finish this bill by morning today. We, the opposition, are prepared to do our part. Members of parliament, the basis and essence of our motion is this: it is a motion that the duties given to the chairman of the board or institution be given to the whole board, not to the president. The reason is that democracy has to be first in order to become human rights. In a place where democracy exists, not one person, but the entire board should be in charge, making decisions together democratically. If you agree to the motion we've made in this regard, I hope that during the next period in Turkey, we may have taken some precautions with a much more civil logic, with a civil organisation, with respect to human rights violations. I call him Civil, because the official presence of human rights boards established under Law 4643 in the previous period was of no use with the presence of the governor, the deputy governor, and no serious step has been taken to prevent any human rights violations. As a matter of fact, all of us are detecting that human rights violations are the most important points of the state in Turkey. Why are human rights being violated? If we run democracy, provide our people with real rights, legal opportunities, there can be no mention of human rights violations, but human rights violates the state's most competent and effective institutions. The most complaints, where's the most trouble? It's justice. Where do you have it? It's in prison. Where do you have it? The police who came to Ankara's headquarters and carried out an application of gas and baton against the civil servant seeking rights. Now, when we say that, is it only in actions or actions of political purpose? No, under normal circumstances, the most common citizen who has to go to the police and testify is the violence against him; it's not over, it's still going on, but the two most strange police officers are holding a report, making the citizen a defendant for resisting police action, and most of the actions committed against the police in Turkey are committed against the police. Therefore, as long as we do not civilize logic in these institutions, no matter what law you take out unless we democcratize logic, you have no chance to eliminate human rights violations in Turkey, because respect for human rights must first and especially for the state, the government's rulers and political practices. We propose that our motion be reassessed by you and that the powers vested in the institution here can work as a board to eliminate practices as if it were the government's office, that we can discuss them together, that we can evaluate events together, and that we can make decisions that will result. If we can make it that way, we can eliminate the Human Rights Foundation as an official institution and turn it into a civilian, democratic, social institution. Maybe then, really, a sense of human rights that governs the country, respects human rights, absorbs human rights, and puts human rights at the head of governance logic... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're considering a serious step towards spreading it to the country. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0206par0351	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0207par0355	Request roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0206par0356	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a request for a roll call, and I'll carry it out: Mr. Akar, Mr. Gök, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Çam, Mr. Firat, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Yüksel, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Batum, Mr. Batum. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 14: The 14th Amendment of 279 rows. Article 2 of the Article 2. With a written report, we request the addition of the declaration. Ali Oz D. Ali Torlak Seyfettin Yilmaz Muharrem Varlı Şişek Güçük Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 14th draft of the current bill 279 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be changed as follows. (1) The institution forms a Consultative Commission among public institutions and persons operating in the field of anti-discrimination and equality, assisting it in its work. (2) The number of members of the Council Commission cannot be more than double the number of members of the Institution. The advisory commission elects a president of its own members for three years. It is possible to re-elect the President and his members. (3) The Counselling Commission meets at least twice a year to assess the work and development of human rights, preparing its proposals for action plans to be formed. The proposals of the advisory commission are considered primarily in institutional studies. Intuitive God-like Malik Ecder Özdemir Levent Gök Mahmut Tanal Hussein Aygün Alaatin Yüksek Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that Article 14 of the current bill 279 rows be removed from the bill. Yours truly. Sebahat Tuncel Pervin Buldan Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan Halil Aksoy Ertugrul Furçı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0208par0393	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0206par0394	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0209par0395	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0206par0396	I'm reading the reason: The bill does not guarantee the independence of the TİHK. The main responsibility for human rights violations was states and governments, and an institution designed to prevent violations, to protect rights, and to have an organisational model that is completely independent of the government's hierarchy, able to observe it from the outside and control it. The appointment procedure the bill envisions is against the principle of independence. The bill organises the TİH under the responsibility of the Prime Minister, the government. Any institution can only be as free as the individuals that form it. So it's very important to know which organ the appointment will be made and how the election processes will be run. The procedure for dismissal of the bill is against the principle of independence. The mandate to relieve you is closely related to the independence of a national institution. In order not to compromise independence, members of the national human rights institution must be under staff security. In order to prevent the possibility of the president or the members of the Council being relieved of their duties in an arbitrary manner, objective criteria should be made clear in the law. The financial structure envisioned by the bill is against the principle of independence. According to the Paris Principles, there is a direct relationship between the fiscal independence of the national institution and its functional independence. In addition to other revenues, the bill is listed as "helps leaving the general budget." In addition, the bill is not clear on what level of financial autonomy the institution will have. This does not guarantee that the institution will have a suitable and independent budget. The CDC was designed as a presidential mechanism, such as all previous human rights institutions. If the president doesn't want it, there's almost no way the institution can work. The Bill of Law envisions a bilateral institutional structure for the CDC: the presidential system and the Human Rights Council. The bill sees a significant difference in power between the Council and the presidency, as described. The shape of the Council raises concern that it will have a function. The bill did not specify the members' selection criteria based on the Paris Principles and the functions of the TİHK. Working and fighting in the field of human rights requires that experts with different professional backgrounds and disciplines work together. The bill did not specify the members' selection criteria based on the Paris Principles and the functions of the TİHK. Working and fighting in the field of human rights requires that experts with different professional backgrounds and disciplines work together. The bill ensures the pluralism predicted by the Paris Principles. As noted in the Paris Principles, one of the things that guarantees the independence of the national institution is the principle of pluralism of those involved within the decision-making body of such an institution. Besides, the decision-making body must be equipped with the ability to respect differences. A national institution, consisting of members of a certain ethnic, religious, cultural, or professional group, is far from reflecting diversity in society, and therefore cannot fully represent the society it comes from. The bill does not offer the CDC sufficient access to prevent human rights violations. While the bill has provided a wide range of jurisdiction for the TİHK, its jurisdiction has not been defined in specific and detailed terms, contrary to the prediction of the Paris Principles. The bill does not allow the creation of an independent, functional and effective prevention mechanism, envisioned by the UN Additional Protocol on Torture (Selected Protocol). Because the "national prevention mechanism" guaranteed independence predicted by the Selective Protocol is being made a subsidiary of Turkey's Human Rights Institution with the Bill. This means that the process of creating the "national prevention mechanism" is not inclusive and transparent. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 14th draft of the current bill 279 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be changed as follows. (1) The institution forms a Consultative Commission among public institutions and persons operating in the field of anti-discrimination and equality, assisting it in its work. (2) The number of members of the Council Commission cannot be more than double the number of members of the Institution. The advisory commission elects a president of its own members for three years. It is possible to re-elect the President and his members. (3) The Counselling Commission meets at least twice a year to assess the work and development of human rights, preparing its proposals for action plans to be formed. The proposals of the advisory commission are considered primarily in institutional studies. Sezgin Godkulu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0210par0418	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0206par0419	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0211par0420	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0206par0421	Alaattin Yüksel, İzmir MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0212par0423	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute all of you. Again, we're negotiating a fundamental law. Mr. Secretary of Parliament is a nation, the Parliament is very important, we are very sensitive in these matters. He said, "We are very sensitive in these matters." But I think this period will beat a new record in the 24th term of the AKP, or AKP's mastery period, and the basic law will break the record of negotiation. We don't really understand what kind of Parliament is to put the law before the House in accordance with the laws of the law, the bag of laws, the fundamental laws, the fundamental law of any kind. Of course, I think the Parliament he's talking about is just the one party council, the AKP Assembly. One of our country's most important problems is the human rights issue, the most common violation of human rights in the country. Therefore, the Human Rights Institution is really needed, but such an independent institution does not need two of them, but one of them is needed, not one of which is appointed by the President and seven of the Council of Ministers, but one of which is appointed by the SEC. The government first took control of universities, NGOs, judiciarys, independent institutions, economic boards, TÜBİTAK (TİBA), from BDK to IMKB, the Competitive Institution, all of them. Now, these days, a value created by Izmir, the VOB (VOB), the Vadeli Option Stock Exchange, is trying to take the VOB (VOB) to Istanbul and to take the VOB (VOB) to Istanbul, which shows the value of Izmir (Izmir)'s creation, and is very important in a short period of time. On top of that, we're trying to build the Turkish Human Rights Foundation here today. While we should all be here to negotiate this institution that should be an independent, transparent, inclusive, participating institution, tell me, for God's sake, is there an NGO that supports this bill, is there a association, is there a foundation, is there a political party? No. You'd rather form new institutions as government institutions when you're born, so that you don't have to go through the trouble of taking them. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You can't form an independent institution because human rights violations are run by the government itself, intentionally and willingly, to form a dictatorship administration. By special authority courts, you silence and lock up anyone who criticizes the government in the country. It's obvious what happened in Silivri. Mustafa Balbay, our MP friend, is being tried in the same case as someone who dropped a bomb on his own newspaper, his representative, at the trial of Mustafa Balbay, who, together with nearly 600,000 votes in İzmir. The prosecutor and Tuncay Özkans, Mustafa Balbays are tried together in the same case, with the same understanding. Again, in these cases, Tuncay Özkan and Mustafa Balbay have been isolated for over four hundred days and are kept in solitary confinement and have recently gone to our friends, two beautiful children, who are on trial from the Oda TV case, who have volunteered to be in better wards. Dear friends, if you tie an animal to a single place for four months, it'll ruin his mental health. That is what you do to a human being. Again, a publisher I know in Silivri, when he defends a photo artist, says that they usually make these cases into dark organizations like the CIA, and then they use them after a while, and then they throw away what they're using. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Again, over 500 children in this country are in prison because they want free education because they exercise democratic rights. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0213par0437	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The 14th Amendment of 279 rows. Article 2 of the Article 2. With a written report, we request the addition of the declaration. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0214par0444	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0213par0445	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0215par0446	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit05spe0213par0447	I'm reading the reason: The uncertainty of the joke about this arrangement was intended to be resolved. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances on the first section are complete. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0213par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th session of the 122nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 279 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on the 15th article: It's the 15th of the 279 Numbered Legislature. Article 1. 2 of his joke. sentence and (3). We would like to ask that all kinds of statements mentioned in the joke be removed from the text of the substance. Scholar Light D. Ali Torlak Muharrem Varlı Seyfettin Yilmaz Mehmet Şandir Adnan Şişek Güçük Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 15th draft of the current bill 279 rows. In the final sentence of Article 4 of the article, we propose and propose that the number of people who will be employed under this joke should be changed by regulations rather than by saying, "The number of people who are actually working at the institution cannot exceed ten percent of the number of human rights experts and assistants." Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu Malik Ecder Özdemir Levent Gök Mahmut Tanal Hussein Aygün Veli Ağbaba Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that Article 279 of the current bill be removed from the bill of law (15). Yours truly. Sebahat Tuncel Pervin Buldan Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan Ertuğrul Kürklül Halil Aksoy Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0216par0027	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0213par0028	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0217par0029	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0213par0030	I'm reading the reason: The bill does not guarantee the independence of the TİHK. The main responsibility for human rights violations was states and governments, and an institution designed to prevent violations, to protect rights, and to have an organisational model that is completely independent of the government's hierarchy, able to observe it from the outside and control it. The appointment procedure the bill envisions is against the principle of independence. The bill organises the TİH under the responsibility of the Prime Minister, the government. Any institution can only be as free as the individuals that form it. So it's very important to know which organ the appointment will be made and how the election processes will be run. The procedure for dismissal of the bill is against the principle of independence. The mandate to relieve you is closely related to the independence of a national institution. In order not to compromise independence, members of the national human rights institution must be under staff security. In order to prevent the possibility of the president or the members of the Council being relieved of their duties in an arbitrary manner, objective criteria should be made clear in the law. The financial structure envisioned by the bill is against the principle of independence. According to the Paris Principles, there is a direct relationship between the fiscal independence of the national institution and its functional independence. In addition to other revenues, the bill is listed as "helps leaving the general budget." In addition, the bill is not clear on what level of financial autonomy the institution will have. This does not guarantee that the institution will have a suitable and independent budget. The CDC was designed as a presidential mechanism, such as all previous human rights institutions. If the president doesn't want it, there's almost no way the institution can work. The Bill of Law envisions a bilateral institutional structure for the CDC: the presidential system and the Human Rights Council. The bill sees a significant difference in power between the Council and the presidency, as described. The shape of the Council raises concern that it will have a function. The bill did not specify the members' selection criteria based on the Paris Principles and the functions of the TİHK. Working and fighting in the field of human rights requires that experts with different professional backgrounds and disciplines work together. The bill does not guarantee the pluralism predicted by the Paris Principles. As noted in the Paris Principles, one of the things that guarantees the independence of the national institution is the principle of pluralism of those involved within the decision-making body of such an institution. Besides, the decision-making body must be equipped with the ability to respect differences. A national institution, consisting of members of a certain ethnic, religious, cultural, or professional group, is far from reflecting diversity in society, and therefore cannot fully represent the society it comes from. The bill does not offer the CDC sufficient access to prevent human rights violations. While the bill has provided a wide range of jurisdiction for the TİHK, its jurisdiction has not been defined in specific and detailed terms, contrary to the prediction of the Paris Principles. The bill does not allow the creation of an independent, functional, and effective prevention mechanism, envisioned by the UN Additional Protocol on Torture (Selected Protocol). Because the "national prevention mechanism" guaranteed independence predicted by the Selective Protocol is being made a subsidiary of Turkey's Human Rights Institution with the Bill. This means that the process of creating the "national prevention mechanism" is not inclusive and transparent. I will submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0218par0044	We want roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0213par0045	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Tünce, Mr. Gök, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Special, Mr. Yüksel, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Batum, Mr. Moroğlu, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Pine, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Bulut. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 15th draft of the current bill 279 rows. In the final sentence of Article 4 of the article, we propose and propose that the number of people who will be employed under this joke should be changed by regulations rather than by saying, "The number of people who are actually working at the institution cannot exceed ten percent of the number of human rights experts and assistants." Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0219par0061	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0213par0062	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0220par0063	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0213par0064	Veli Ağbaba, Malatya MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0221par0067	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, I went to Şanlıurfa last Sunday. I had the second fire myself in Şanlıurfa Prison. I've seen what it's like in Şanlıurfa Prison. Before we begin to talk about the terms of the prison, I would like to share with you here the cry of the mother of the Yunus Threskli, whose body I died and attended. Is this how I gave you my son, my son, to prison? My son was like a diver. I kept my eyes off him. I raised her to be a day-care worker. Why did you do that? What will I do without him now? I gave you a handsome, beautiful hero like the one who dived, and you gave me a piece of coal in a bag. I recognized my son, whose face was turned into coal, his face was burnt, and his body was burned, by the tattoo of my dear mother. Dear friends, the Minister has just said: "There is no torture in our time." Would there be any greater torture? There are mothers here, there are fathers; imagine a woman who can't recognize her son by his face, who can't recognize him by his eyes, who, in her expression, can't recognize his black eyebrows, whose words are written in her hands, know her by her tattoo.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0222par0070	I thought it was coal, coal?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0221par0071	Yeah, that's what you'd look like. Dear friends, the barracks are built for three people, but there are some interesting bans on 18 or sometimes 20 or 30 people, whose use is 15 square meters, where people can't breathe, where the water is given four hours. These bans aren't just bans from Urban Prison. In the last few days, I have asked at Urbana Prison what is forbidden? Dear friends, no mineral water, no mineral water you drink every day -- no mineral water, no advertising -- no mineral water, friends. No raw eggs, no tweezers, no hats, no shawls, no henna, no henna, no henna. For what it's forbidden, there's no henna. No second samovar, no second television. Yes, there are dear friends in this prison, women who stay with their children in this prison. You're all mothers, you know, no wet wipes to clean when the kid poops himself, they can clean under the kids with paper napkins in this wet wipe prison we're seeing. Again, dear friends, I spoke to a congressman in that prison. Please ask him for me, he said, "Abraham Ayhan is in Urbana." ▪ Have they ever experienced a spoon bent over while eating, and rice poured out of the spoon? Ask the MPs. He said, "I'll ask you about it." Dear friends, consider it forbidden in prison, not counting. There are such bans that can't make sense of it or make sense of what it is. No perforations, staples, Daxyl, the simplest stationery equipment. Dear friends, there are people all over the world that everyone accepts. Che is forbidden, not to hang a picture of Che. It is forbidden to hang a picture of the Sea Gezmiş. No black pens, no crayons. Again, in Tekirdağ Prison No. 1, Cemil Erdem.'s sister writes a letter and puts a rose on it, puts a rose on her brother, a dry rose on it, but the prison management flower gets that dry rose, because it is forbidden for security reasons. In the past few days, I've visited Kurıkkale Prison, friends, Kurıkkale Prison, in the middle of the mountain. There's a woman standing there, thinking, sitting there. When he found out I was a congressman, he said: "Come to me, I'll give you something." It's a fiber. This fiber is also forbidden, my friends, for endangering the safety of the prison. Now, Mr. Secretary has just said: "There was no torture." Do you remember this Engin Cheber? Do you remember Engin Cheber, Mr. Secretary of State or Festus Okey?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0223par0078	It was the Minister then.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0221par0079	The minister, yes. A Nigerian teenager was tortured and killed there. Engin Çeber was tortured, people were convicted there, and Fevziye Genghis was beaten a few months ago, and the police were not sued for beating him, and they were not punished, but he was prosecuted. What's he being sued for? He's been sued for resisting police action. This all happened during your time. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In Isparta Prison, a twenty - year - old boy is being thrown out of bed in prison, and now he is lying in a double-bender, paralyzed. When was that? I'd like to ask that too, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0224par0085	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. It's the 15th of the 279 Numbered Legislature. Article 1. 2 of his joke. sentence and (3). We would like to ask that all kinds of statements mentioned in the joke be removed from the text of the substance. Lütfü Türkkan (Alexeli) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0225par0092	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0224par0093	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0226par0094	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0224par0095	Lütfü Türkkan who wants a word on the motion is the MP of Kopeeli.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0227par0097	Mr. President, I have made a statement in the previous article in the European Parliament that we face the most human rights violations in the parliamentary defences of members of the European Union against Turkey. I've been there twice, I've been to Brussels, and I've been to Strasbourg, and we've had a meeting like this before in Istanbul. I also described criticisms made by Turkish lawmakers regarding human rights violations and other issues in Turkey as unfair, unfair, in Belgium, or Strasbourg. I have friends here from the Republican People's Party, and when they spoke, I had a serious argument with them. We're going to talk about this in Turkey, we're going to heal our wounds, but we're never going to let Turkey land in the international arena, we're not going to allow this to happen as a nationalist movement party, and I've never, ever talked to the floor. Mr. Affif President is also here, and I can honestly say, everywhere we go, we're facing human rights violations in Turkey, absolutely and certainly. At that meeting where Mr. Afif Demirkıran was co-Chair, I personally noticed the problems he was facing. So he's there, and he's doing it more than enough, to avoid human rights violations given by European parliamentarians with examples. This is a very important job. Here you can silence me, Mr. Secretary, and say, "Why are you ashamed?" Yes, I'm ashamed, ashamed of it. Republican People's Party MP, for ideological reasons, I may not find myself ideologisically close to the issues that friends defend with ideology, but as a human being, I want them eliminated. In this regard, our friends will present the statistics of human rights violations in Europe in our motions for the following articles. Look, I'm going to tell you something: if we don't do the necessary human rights intervention here, there are people down there who have taken it upon themselves. We saw on TV yesterday -- a child's father is a hero, a wife's husband is the strongest -- we need to figure out the drama of a father who gets beaten up in front of his wife and kids. It's not enough to get those cops off duty. Two police officers who beat up the woman who was beaten in the police station with her wife were first seized, two months later transferred to İstanbul. If you take such a precaution, this cop will beat me up on the street with my kids. We'll leave tomorrow, but when we call it human rights, it concerns all of us very much. Look, when I was transferred from Urbana Prison to the hospital, I saw a picture on TV, the man was burned, he was screaming, he was badly burned, and he was handcuffed! Mr. Secretary, this is a human rights violation.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0228par0103	And this is Turkey!
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0227par0104	And this is what we call a coveted Turkey. Minister, just now, when I went to explain them to him, we went to Tunus together. In Tunisia, people care about us so much. True, but I don't care much that Tunisia cares about me. Tunisia is trying to develop models that don't know what to do with themselves again. For me, it's the opinion of the countries of the European Union, where we stand at their door, almost drooling and crying. I don't think there's any need, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0229par0106	It doesn't suit you!
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0230par0107	Mr. Turkkan, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0229par0108	What a shame!
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0230par0109	Please, Congressman...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0231par0110	I know what's dirty. And don't lecture me on shame. Do your homework, do your homework, prevent human rights violations in this country. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0230par0113	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on the 16th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 16th draft of the current bill 279 rows. We offer and propose that the letter of attorney's office, which is included in Article 3 of the article, shall be changed into the form of a lawyer's license. Intuitive God-like Malik Ecder Özdemir Levent Gök Hülya Güven Hüseyin Aygün Mahmut Tanal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the draft law of 279 rows (16) which is currently in session be removed from the bill of the law. Yours truly. Sebahat Tuncel Pervin Buldan Ertuğru Furçı Halil Aksoy Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan I'm having him read because there's a new motion on the 16th article: It's the 16th of the 279 Numbered Legislature. We request that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Öz Seyfettin Yilmaz Does the Commission agree with the motions for similar proposals?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0232par0138	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0230par0139	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0233par0140	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0230par0141	I'm reading the reason: The bill does not guarantee the independence of the TİHK. The main responsibility for human rights violations was states and governments, and an institution designed to prevent violations, to protect rights, and to have an organisational model that is completely independent of the government's hierarchy, able to observe it from the outside and control it. The appointment procedure the bill envisions is against the principle of independence. The bill organises the TİH under the responsibility of the Prime Minister, the government. Any institution can only be as free as the individuals that form it. So it's very important to know which organ the appointment will be made and how the election processes will be run. The procedure for dismissal of the bill is against the principle of independence. The mandate to relieve you is closely related to the independence of a national institution. In order not to compromise independence, members of the national human rights institution must be under staff security. In order to prevent the possibility of the president or the members of the Council being relieved of their duties in an arbitrary manner, objective criteria should be made clear in the law. The financial structure envisioned by the bill is against the principle of independence. According to the Paris Principles, there is a direct relationship between the fiscal independence of the national institution and its functional independence. In addition to other revenues, the bill is listed as "helps leaving the general budget." In addition, the bill is not clear on what level of financial autonomy the institution will have. This does not guarantee that the institution will have a suitable and independent budget. The CDC was designed as a presidential mechanism, such as all previous human rights institutions. If the president doesn't want it, there's almost no way the institution can work. The Bill of Law envisions a bilateral institutional structure for the CDC: the presidential system and the Human Rights Council. The bill sees a significant difference in power between the Council and the presidency, as described. This raises concern that the Council will have a formal function. The bill did not specify the members' selection criteria based on the Paris Principles and the functions of the TİHK. Working and fighting in the field of human rights requires that experts with different professional backgrounds and disciplines work together. The bill did not specify the members' selection criteria based on the Paris Principles and the functions of the TİHK. Working and fighting in the field of human rights requires that experts with different professional backgrounds and disciplines work together. The bill does not guarantee the pluralism predicted by the Paris Principles. As noted in the Paris Principles, one of the things that guarantees the independence of the national institution is the principle of pluralism of those involved within the decision-making body of such an institution. Besides, the decision-making body must be equipped with the ability to respect differences. A national institution, consisting of members of a certain ethnic, religious, cultural, or professional group, is far from reflecting diversity in society, and therefore cannot fully represent the society it comes from. The bill does not offer the CDC sufficient access to prevent human rights violations. While the bill has provided a wide range of jurisdiction for the TİHK, its jurisdiction has not been defined in specific and detailed terms, contrary to the prediction of the Paris Principles. The bill does not allow the creation of an independent, functional and effective prevention mechanism, envisioned by the UN Additional Protocol on Torture (Selected Protocol). Because the "national prevention mechanism" guaranteed independence predicted by the Selective Protocol is being made a subsidiary of Turkey's Human Rights Institution with the Bill. This means that the process of creating the "national prevention mechanism" is not inclusive and transparent. I'm reading the other reason: On the basis of applications and convictions over 52 years, Turkey has become the most infringement of the Convention on Human Rights. The Department of Human Rights, established by the Ministry of Justice, has signed a principle and established a website where the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) has issued its most recent decisions on Turkey, especially for the benefit of judges and prosecutors. The website also included 52 years of EU statistics on Turkey. Based on applications from 1959-2011 and the release of convictions, Turkey has been the most infringement of the European Convention on Human Rights (AIDS) with 2,404 convictions. In statistics on the violations of the ECHR, Turkey has not lost to anyone the title of being the most convicted in numerous areas. In areas such as life rights and torture, 15,940 applications against Turkey, ranked second in Russia, have yet to be decided. In the 52-year period, Turkey, except for a few areas, has not lost its first place to anyone. Turkey has been condemned 554 times over "freedom and security rights" due to lack of effective investigation, 729 times over "fair trial," 207 times over "freedom of expression," 53 times over "the freedom of speech and the freedom of demonstration," and has been sentenced to 611 times over all countries in cases brought against these substances of the ECHR. Turkey, who has been convicted 92 times in life-right violation cases, lost its first place in this category to Russia, which has 202 convictions, and took second place. It noted that 30 countries on the list have no convictions for their right of life violations. Russia ranked first with 217 convictions on "ethin investigation," while Turkey came second with 138 convictions. Russia left Turkey second in the area of "no abuse" with 357 convictions and 243 convictions. In the area of the trial, Italy was on top of second-place Turkey. Following Italy's 1155 convictions with 493 convictions, Turkey narrowly lost to Russia, which had 38 convictions for "the execution of judicial decisions," and came second with 37 convictions. Your report card is full. Except for Russia, all countries have at least one substance that the ECHR has never violated, while Turkey's report card, such as Russia, is empty. 21 per cent of Turkey's convictions were given "fair trial," 17 per cent "right of property," 15 per cent "right of freedom and security," 13 per cent "long of judgment." The ECHR concluded 65 per cent of Turkey's applications, given the total application. A total of 2,747 Turkish applications (59 per cent) were found unacceptable or dropped from the register. The number of applicants waiting to reach a decision on Turkey is 35 per cent of all applications so far. Possible convictions from an application waiting to reach 15,940 verdicts could lead to Turkey's failure to lose first place. On the website, which can be accessed from the address www.inhak.adalet.gov.tr, where the ECHR decisions, executive decisions, reports, human rights basic texts are being uploaded, Turkey's ECHR report card was included. Comparative tables from 1959-2011 on the page of statistics taken from the ECHR page revealed that Turkey was the most infringinged country of 47 countries to the ECHR over 52 years. Russia followed Turkey, where 2,747 decisions were made, with 2,166 decisions, Italy, with 1,212 decisions. Turkey was sentenced to compensation for violating at least one Article of the ECHR on 2,404 of the 2,747 cases, which were agreed on during the 52-year period. Turkey's 204 cases, which have been justified in 57 cases, have resulted in a friendly solution or decision to fall. Turkey has been convicted of 87.5% of the total decisions. These numbers gave Turkey the title "the country with the most prisoners." The establishment of the institution, which is referred to for these reasons, would be unrealistic. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 16th draft of the current bill 279 rows. We offer and propose that the letter of attorney's office, which is included in Article 3 of the article, shall be changed into the form of a lawyer's license. Sezgin Godkulu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0234par0173	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0230par0174	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0235par0175	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0230par0176	Hülya Güven, Izmir MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0236par0178	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have made a commitment to express our views on the 16th Amendment of Turkey's Human Rights Institution Act 279 rows under discussion. Congressmans, in my speech, I'm going to tell you how much our current power values the woman's human rights. First of all, keep the stick from the back of the woman and the donkey from the belly. From a point of view, our women's rights are restricted from the beginning. Again, you know, we have judges who say, "Let the woman be married to the person who raped her." In fact, that's what judges do to women. The judge who's supposed to give away rights is violating rights. With this bill, the violation of human rights will not be reduced, it will increase. If students from schools who have studied abroad and have accepted equality are not subject to separate tests and training in our country, human rights violations will increase further. We see -- what we've seen, what we've experienced -- that women in our country continue to be subjected to various forms of violence in every aspect of life. We're watching reports of women who were stoned to death, murdered in honors, raped, committed suicide in an uncertain manner. Is it over? No, it's not. Daughters are getting married, having children as children instead of playing with their peers, and having many health problems. This is also encouraged by the 4+4+4 system. Isn't that a violation of human rights? You don't send 12-year-old girls to school, you send them to the husband. You're causing poor families to be sold to the elderly for the dowry of girls. Isn't that an incentive for slave trade? Those who were raped by dozens of young children were together because they wanted children. Isn't it a violation of children's rights, of their rights, of their child's rights, of their child's rights? For some time, with the systematic effort to change the country's future, she should have at least three children without first asking the woman how many children she wants. She's not an incubator, she's a human being.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0237par0184	Don't give birth, Ma'am. Forced?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0236par0185	I'm asking the Minister of Health, how many women were dying in the past few years when abortions weren't allowed? You can look at the statistics. Again, don't our women die because they use chicken feathers, garbage, or old wives' medicines at home because they can't go to the doctor to bring down a child? We'll go back to this, we'll go back. From now on, poor and uneducated women who have money will go to Cyprus or to the Greek islands to bring down children will also die. You know what the Cypriots say? You banned the sand, and we became rich. And when we ban abortion, we'll get it from the hospitals. And let's not be surprised to hear about the opening of maternity hospitals on the Greek islands. Mr. Health Minister says we'll take care of the child born of rape, the child born of disability. Look at the homes where children are taken care of today, the state of prisons where juvenile offenders live, how do they live? We burn the children alive; we burn the children in the house, and the children in the prison, and the 34 children in Uludere. Isn't it a violation of human rights if the rich one lives, gets the best of health care, the poor one takes care of himself? We, now, should live in a country where women, children are not violent, and education and health are equal, and above all, everyone is entitled to human rights. It's the government's job to provide all of this, and I say it's necessary, and I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0238par0191	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0239par0194	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0238par0195	All those in favor... those who refuse... the decision is enough and accepted. There are three motions on the 17th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 17th draft of the current bill 279 rows. We offer and propose that the last sentence of the clause be changed as follows. The demands of the study will be met within a week of the date when they will be notified by the relevant institution and organization. Intuitive God-like Malik Ecder Özdemir Levent Gök Mustafa Moroglu Hüseyin Aygün Mahmut Tanal Members of parliament, the other two motions are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 17th article of the current bill of law, 279 rows, be removed from the bill. Yours truly. Sebahat Tuncel Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan Pervin Buldan Ertugrul Kürkcı Halil Aksoy Ali Öz Seyfettin Yilmaz Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0240par0218	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0238par0219	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0241par0220	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0238par0221	I'm reading the reasons: The bill does not guarantee the independence of the TİHK. The main responsibility for human rights violations was states and governments, and an institution designed to prevent violations, to protect rights, and to have an organisational model that is completely independent of the government's hierarchy, able to observe it from the outside and control it. The appointment procedure the bill envisions is against the principle of independence. The bill organises the TİHK under the responsibility of the Prime Minister, the government. Any institution can only be as free as the individuals that form it. So it's very important to know which organ the appointment will be made and how the election processes will be run. The procedure for dismissal of the bill is against the principle of independence. The mandate to relieve you is closely related to the independence of a national institution. In order not to compromise independence, members of the national human rights institution must be under staff security. In order to prevent the possibility of the president or the members of the Council being relieved of their duties in an arbitrary manner, objective criteria should be made clear in the law. The financial structure envisioned by the bill is against the principle of independence. According to the Paris Principles, there is a direct relationship between the fiscal independence of the national institution and its functional independence. In addition to other revenues, the bill is listed as "helps leaving the general budget." In addition, the bill is not clear on what level of financial autonomy the institution will have. This does not guarantee that the institution will have a suitable and independent budget. The CDC was designed as a presidential mechanism, such as all previous human rights institutions. If the president doesn't want it, there's almost no way the institution can work. The Bill of Law envisions a bilateral institutional structure for the CDC: the presidential system and the Human Rights Council. The bill sees a significant difference in power between the Council and the presidency, as described. The shape of the Council raises concern that it will have a function. The bill did not specify the members' selection criteria based on the Paris Principles and the functions of the TİHK. Working and fighting in the field of human rights requires that experts with different professional backgrounds and disciplines work together. The bill does not guarantee the pluralism predicted by the Paris Principles. As noted in the Paris Principles, one of the things that guarantees the independence of the national institution is the principle of pluralism of those involved within the decision-making body of such an institution. Besides, the decision-making body must be equipped with the ability to respect differences. A national institution, consisting of members of a certain ethnic, religious, cultural, or professional group, is far from reflecting diversity in society, and therefore cannot fully represent the society it comes from. The bill does not offer the CDC sufficient access to prevent human rights violations. While the bill has provided a wide range of jurisdiction for the TİHK, its jurisdiction has not been defined in specific and detailed terms, contrary to the prediction of the Paris Principles. The bill does not allow the creation of an independent, functional and effective prevention mechanism, envisioned by the UN Additional Protocol on Torture (Selected Protocol). Because the "national prevention mechanism" guaranteed independence predicted by the Selective Protocol is being made a subsidiary of Turkey's Human Rights Institution with the Bill. This means that the process of creating the "national prevention mechanism" is not inclusive and transparent. I'm reading the reason for the other motion: On the basis of applications and convictions over 52 years, Turkey has become the most infringement of the Convention on Human Rights. The Department of Human Rights, established by the Ministry of Justice, has signed a principle and established a website where the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) has issued its most recent decisions on Turkey, especially for the benefit of judges and prosecutors. The website also included 52 years of EU statistics on Turkey. Based on applications from 1959-2011 and the release of convictions, Turkey has been the most infringement of the European Convention on Human Rights (AIDS) with 2,404 convictions. In statistics on the violations of the ECHR, Turkey has not lost to anyone the title of being the most convicted in numerous areas. In areas such as life rights and torture, 15,940 applications against Turkey, which were second place in Russia, have yet to be decided. In the 52-year period, Turkey, except for a few areas, has not lost its first place to anyone. Turkey has been convicted 554 times over "freedom and security rights" due to lack of emancipation; 729 times over "fair trial"; 207 times over "freedom of expression"; 53 times over "the freedom of assembly and freedom of demonstration"; and 611 times over all countries in cases brought against the articles of the ECHR. Turkey, who has been convicted 92 times in life-right violation cases, lost its first place in this category to Russia, which has 202 convictions, and took second place. It noted that 30 countries on the list have no convictions for their right of life violations. Russia ranked first with 217 convictions on "ethmatic investigation," while Turkey was second in 138 convictions, while Russia left Turkey second in the area of "no abuse ban" with 357 convictions and 243 convictions. In the area of the trial, Italy was on top of second-place Turkey. Following Italy's 1155 convictions with 493 convictions, Turkey has narrowed its sentence to Russia, which has 38 convictions for "the execution of judicial decisions," and has been second with 37 convictions. Except for Russia, all countries have at least one substance that the ECHR has never violated, while Turkey's report card, such as Russia, is empty. 21 per cent of Turkey's convictions were given "fair trial," 17 per cent "right of property," 15 per cent "right of freedom and security," 13 per cent "long of judgment." The ECHR concluded 65 per cent of Turkey's applications, given the total application. A total of 2,747 Turkish applications (59 per cent) were found unacceptable or dropped from the register. The number of applicants waiting to reach a decision on Turkey is 35 per cent of all applications so far. Possible convictions from an application waiting to reach 15,940 verdicts could lead to Turkey's failure to lose first place. On the website, which can be accessed from the address www.inhak.adalet.gov.tr, where the ECHR decisions, executive decisions, reports, human rights basic texts are being uploaded, Turkey's ECHR report card was included. Comparative tables from 1959-2011 on the page of statistics taken from the ECHR page revealed that Turkey was the most infringinged country of 47 countries to the ECHR over 52 years. Russia followed Turkey, where 2,747 decisions were made, with 2,166 decisions, Italy, with 1,212 decisions. Turkey was sentenced to compensation for violating at least one Article of the ECHR on 2,404 of the 2,747 cases, which were agreed on during the 52-year period. Turkey's 204 cases, which have been justified in 57 cases, have resulted in a friendly solution or decision to fall. Turkey has been convicted of 87.5% of the total decisions. These numbers gave Turkey the title "the country with the most prisoners." The establishment of the institution, which is referred to for these reasons, would be unrealistic. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 17th draft of the current bill 279 rows. We offer and propose that the last sentence of the clause be changed as follows. The demands of the study will be met within a week of the date when they will be notified by the relevant institution and organization. Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0242par0253	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0238par0254	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0243par0255	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0238par0256	Mustafa Moroglu, İzmir MP asking for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0244par0258	Mr. President, Congressmans, we're discussing the bill for the establishment of the Turkish Human Rights Foundation. We all know that the only reason this bill comes up is because it wants the AKP's government to establish its purpose to investigate human rights and prevent human rights violations. What we all know is that, in accordance with the acquish of the European Union, it's coming to us as a coercion of the process. Even if it had come to the agenda, we would not have discussed these issues until this night, and we would have established an institution that wanted to investigate human rights violations and avoid human rights violations in both the Commission and the lower commissions. Since this is not the case, your intentions are clear when compared with both the Paris Principles and the bill you have prepared and presented. The goal, yes, is that there are a lot of human rights violations, as the speakers here today have shown, and we see that the Human Rights Foundation, which we have to build, is an effort to become a board to cover human rights violations. If so far, the suggestions of the speakers had been taken into account, and if the efforts to form this Council had been taken into account by organizations who wanted to intervene as they walked, we would all have approved this bill with the amount and appetite that we could afford, and we would all leave in peace. It'll be the law. I think it's our duty to question who created human rights violations, how alien we are to ourselves. Perhaps such talks will benefit at this time, and perhaps after these talks, all of our fellow MPs will receive these transcripts and take their own statements, and take the 50 per cent opposition and those who do not vote against us to prevent human rights, and they will look at them and question their own consciences that fear is no longer useful. Even after this hour, I mean, not at this time of night, but after a period of human rights violations that are so intense, if we're still afraid, I want to say there's no point in being afraid, because it's already been feared. If anyone's afraid, we all need to know that there's still someone who's afraid to talk. It has been feared, and in human rights violations, Turkey, as the speakers say, is ranked first in all areas, and the sole responsibility is today's AKP Power. And I'd like to say a few words to the Minister: we call them Cezaevs, we build prisons. Instead of saying that we're making these efforts to eliminate persecution in prisons, atrocities in prisons, and corruption, corruption, and economic disorders that have led to the arrest of so many people, we're doing these prisons. Of course, the law has its flaws, and we can fix them. It saddens me to hear a minister say that. If there are shortcomings in the law, Mr. Secretary, when will it be better? It doesn't improve in lower commissions, it doesn't improve in commissions, we've been talking in parliament all these hours, and we haven't heard a single word from you or from the AKP MPs. So, if it helps to question how he created so many rights violations, and if you ask me, who created these rights violations after this interrogation? Perhaps this will help. So all of you, if you say, "Who created these violations?" and "Lord, make us over." And if you say, "Lord," and realize how alien you have become, our conversations will benefit. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] All my fellow lawmakers will go down in history for signing this law. I congratulate you all.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0245par0267	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0246par0270	We want roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0245par0271	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a call request, and I'll grant it. Mr. Tün, Mr. Gök, Mr. Atici, Mr. Special, Mr. Akar, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Earth, Mr. Moroglu, Mr. Pine, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Batum, Mr. Cloud, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Onur, Mr. Firat, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Özkan. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 18th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 18th draft of the current bill, 279 rows. Article 2 of the Article 2. At the end of his joke, he said, "It's 258 of the Turkish Penal Code about those who act on this clause. We propose and provide for the addition of the sentence, "Additionally applied." Intuitive God-like Malik Ecder Özdemir Levent Gök Veli Ağbaba Hüseyin Aygün Mahmut Tanal Melda Onur Free Orhan Decent I'm reading other proposals of the same nature: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey I propose and propose that the legislation, which is currently in session, shall be removed from the bill of Article 279 (18). Yours truly. Sebahat Tuncel Pervin Buldan Ertuğru Furçı Halil Aksoy Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan Ali İlm Ali Öz Mehmet Erdoğan Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0247par0308	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0245par0309	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0248par0310	We disagree, Mayor. On the basis of applications and convictions over 52 years, Turkey has become the most infringement of the Convention on Human Rights. The Department of Human Rights, established by the Ministry of Justice, has signed a principle and established a website where the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) has issued its most recent decisions on Turkey, especially for the benefit of judges and prosecutors. The website also included 52 years of EU statistics on Turkey. Based on applications from 1959-2011 and the release of convictions, Turkey has been the most infringement of the European Convention on Human Rights (AIDS) with 2,404 convictions. In statistics on the violations of the ECHR, Turkey has not lost to anyone the title of being the most convicted in numerous areas. In areas such as life rights and torture, 15,940 applications against Turkey, which were second place in Russia, have yet to be decided. In the 52-year period, Turkey, except for a few areas, has not lost its first place to anyone. Turkey has been convicted 554 times over "freedom and security rights" due to lack of emancipation; 729 times over "fair trial"; 207 times over "freedom of expression"; 53 times over "the freedom of assembly and freedom of demonstration"; and 611 times over all countries in cases brought against the articles of the ECHR. Turkey, who has been convicted 92 times in life-right violation cases, lost its first place in this category to Russia, which has 202 convictions, and took second place. It noted that 30 countries on the list have no convictions for their right of life violations. Russia ranked first with 217 convictions on "ethin investigation," while Turkey came second with 138 convictions. Russia left Turkey second in the area of "no abuse" with 357 convictions and 243 convictions. In the area of the trial, Italy was on top of second-place Turkey. Following Italy's 1155 convictions with 493 convictions, Turkey has narrowed its sentence to Russia, which has 38 convictions for "the execution of judicial decisions," and has been second with 37 convictions. Your report card is full. Except for Russia, all countries have at least one substance that the ECHR has never violated, while Turkey's report card, such as Russia, is empty. 21 per cent of Turkey's convictions were given "fair trial," 17 per cent "right of property," 15 per cent "right of freedom and security," 13 per cent "long of judgment." The ECHR concluded 65 per cent of Turkey's applications, given the total application. A total of 2,747 Turkish applications (59 per cent) were found unacceptable or dropped from the register. The number of applicants waiting to reach a decision on Turkey is 35 per cent of all applications so far. Possible convictions from an application waiting to reach 15,940 verdicts could lead to Turkey's failure to lose first place. On the website, which can be accessed from the address www.inhak.adalet.gov.tr, where the ECHR decisions, executive decisions, reports, human rights basic texts are being uploaded, Turkey's ECHR report card was included. Comparative tables from 1959-2011 on the page of statistics taken from the ECHR page revealed that Turkey was the most infringinged country of 47 countries to the ECHR over 52 years. Russia followed Turkey, where 2,747 decisions were made, with 2,166 decisions, Italy, with 1,212 decisions. Turkey was sentenced to compensation for violating at least one Article of the ECHR on 2,404 of the 2,747 cases, which were agreed on during the 52-year period. Turkey's 204 cases, which have been justified in 57 cases, have resulted in a friendly solution or decision to fall. Turkey has been convicted of 87.5% of the total decisions. These numbers gave Turkey the title "the country with the most prisoners." The establishment of the institution, which is referred to for these reasons, would be unrealistic. The bill does not guarantee the independence of the CDC. The main responsibility for human rights violations is states and governments, and an institution designed to prevent violations and protect rights requires that it have an organisational model that is completely independent of the government's governance hierarchy, which can observe and oversee it from the outside. - The bill's appointment procedure violates the principle of independence. The bill organises the TİHK under the responsibility of the Prime Minister, the government. Any institution can only be as free as the individuals that form it. So it's very important to know which organ the appointment will be made and how the election processes will be run. - The procedure for dismissal of the bill is against the principle of independence. The mandate to relieve you is closely related to the independence of a national institution. In order not to compromise independence, members of the national human rights institution must be under staff security. In order to prevent the possibility of an arbitrary termination of the president's duties or members of the Council, objective criteria for dismissal must be made clear in the law. The financial structure the bill envisions is against the principle of independence. According to the Paris Principles, there is a direct relationship between the fiscal independence of the national institution and its functional independence. In addition to other revenues, the bill is listed as "helps leaving the general budget." In addition, the bill is not clear on what level of financial autonomy the institution will have. This does not guarantee that the institution will have a suitable and independent budget. - The CDC was designed as a presidential mechanism, like any other human right-wing institution. If the president doesn't want it, there's almost no way the institution can work. The Bill of Law envisions a bilateral institutional structure for the CDC: the presidential system and the Human Rights Council. The bill sees a significant difference in power between the Council and the presidency, as described. The shape of the Council raises concern that it will have a function. - The bill did not specify the members' election criteria based on the Paris Principles and the functions of the CDC. Working and fighting in the field of human rights requires that experts with different professional backgrounds and disciplines work together. - The bill does not guarantee the pluralism predicted by the Paris Principles. As noted in the Paris Principles, one of the things that guarantees the independence of the national institution is the principle of pluralism of those involved within the decision-making body of such an institution. Besides, the decision-making body must be equipped with the ability to respect differences. A national institution, consisting of members of a certain ethnic, religious, cultural, or professional group, is far from reflecting diversity in society, and therefore cannot fully represent the society it comes from. The bill does not offer the CDC sufficient access to prevent human rights violations. While the bill has provided a wide range of jurisdiction for the TİHK, its jurisdiction has not been defined in specific and detailed terms, contrary to the prediction of the Paris Principles. - The bill does not allow the creation of an independent, functional and effective prevention mechanism that the UN Subsequent Protocol on Torture (Selected Protocol) envisions. Because the "national prevention mechanism" guaranteed independence predicted by the Selective Protocol is being made a subsidiary of Turkey's Human Rights Institution with the Bill. This means that "the process of creating the national prevention mechanism is not inclusive and transparent.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0249par0335	I will submit the same motions to your votes...
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0250par0338	We want roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit06spe0249par0339	I'll call... Mr. Gök, Mr. Aygun, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Akar, Mr. Special, Mr. Batum, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Turk, Mr. Pine, Mr. Ozkoc, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Trust, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Onur, Mr. Firat, Mr. Tünce, Mr. Tezcan. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-20sit07spe0249par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th session of the 122nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The meeting was not enough before the vote of the two motions for the release of Article 18 of Law Bill 279 from the text. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Members of parliament, since the second round of roll call was not enough, the decision was made on Thursday (June 21, 2012) to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of the bill and proposals, at 14 p.m., according to the decision taken Thursday (June 21, 2012). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
