tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 90th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can respond to these conversations. The government's talking time is 20 minutes. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Smurf Ünal, the Istanbul MP who asked for the appointment of NATO Day. Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I've been promised a non-responsibility of NATO Day. I hereby salute your high council. On 4 April 1949, NATO was known as a collective defence organisation established by the Washington Agreement. The 14th article of the Washington Agreement, consisting of 14 articles, is particularly important. With these articles, member states have pledged to develop their skills for the common defence, to come together when territorial integrity, political independence and security of any member is at stake, and to accept this attack as an attack against all of them when attacked. Dear lawmakers, NATO is an important international organisation with the veto authority of our country. In this regard, NATO membership is important to Turkey. It is called the most successful defence alliance in history. Our country has been a member of NATO since 1952. This membership, which we will celebrate this year's 60th anniversary, contributes to our country's reputation and international weight. NATO, which has worked with 16 members for many years, continues its work with 28 member states today following the dissolution of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Our country, which has a unique position within NATO with the majority of its population as an ally, is inextricably valuable to the geography in which the alliance operates with both harsh and soft power capacity. Our extensive contributions to NATO's activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo and Afghanistan show that we have the will to mobilise this capacity. Turkey's NATO membership is part of our country's international identity. Our country continues to contribute comprehensive and actively to allied activities, both for Turkey and for NATO. Turkey continues its position within NATO, both by looking out for its national interests and by supporting Alliance solidarity. Turkey continues to actively participate in activities in joint defence and crisis management within NATO. Our powerful armed forces and our increased civilian resources and capabilities in recent years provide the opportunity. Turkey has mobilized civilian and military resources for Afghanistan. It also shows Turkey's importance to Afghanistan, while it demonstrates the capacity and will to contribute to the alliance's joint activities. Members of parliament, the military structure of the agency consists of the chief of staff of the member states or military personnel who serve as permanent representatives on their behalf. The Military Committee, responsible for the Council, is the highest military authority in the alliance. NATO still has two major commanders -- the Allied Command and Operation Allied Command -- which is part of the Military Committee. The headquarters of the Allied Command (SHAPE) is located in the town of Mons, Belgium, and its commander is known as Saceur. The NATO headquarters, consisting of top civilian and military personnel, is located in Brussels, Belgium. I present the first four of NATO's basic principles -- due to a short period of time -- the Alliance is for defence. It's essential to maintain enough power to deter. Guaranteed territorial integrity and independence of members is continued to contribute to world peace. Rape against one member state is considered a total violation. The 5th article. Dear MPs, the NATO infrastructure programme is a fund needed to support military forces and to provide buildings, facilities, equipment and systems for NATO infrastructure. NATO member states provide financial support for this fund and provide its expenses. Turkey's contribution to the fund is approximately 1.5 per cent. I am honored to say that from 1953 we have received about 300m euros in aid of about 15 times the amount of this fund, 4.5 billion euros. Dear lawmakers believe that the NATO and the United Nations, which we are members of, along with the ongoing negotiation process, will benefit our country and our nation, all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0003par0022	Thank you, Mr. Ünal. The second non-responsive statement belongs to İzmir MP Musa ÇamEST, who wants to mention the Anadolu Agency's founding anniversary. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0004par0027	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I have been promised the 92nd anniversary of the Anadolu Agency. I salute you all with love and respect. Dear friends, the Anadolu Agency was one of our key organizations, which was founded on April 6, 1920, which led to freedom of communication in Turkey. Since the first years that our Republic and the Republic were established, there has been a public institution that reflects the work of parliament and the events of Turkey in a neutral and neutral way to public and public opinion and to our people, but over this period of 90 and two years, at times has been transformed into the rear garden of power and has become a trumpet of political parties, but over the past decade, we have seen it clear and clear that the freedom of the Anadolu Agency to report and share news at this time of AKP's rule has been on its side and unbiased and unbiased. In particular, with the new General Manager's appointment on August 3, 2011, the Anadolu Agency has become the voice of the AKP (AKP) completely beyond the rear garden of AKP. Now, there's no way to accept that. The state-run Anadolu Agency should have been a public institution founded on taxes of the people of this country, which should continue its neutrality and bias, but unfortunately, with news, it has been completely transformed into a spokesman and representative of the ruling party. Now, there, the Union of Journalists of Turkey is organized. Since the arrival of the new General Manager on August 3rd last year, an intense pressure has been imposed on our fellow workers, especially the union, and the General Manager is openly and openly attacking the organisation there. His newly employed companions threaten and hire him as a member of the Union. He also threatens members of the existing union to resign from the union, forcing him to become a member of the newly established Media-Work Union. And this is clearly a coup against the union organization of 500-600 of our colleagues here, my friends. According to Article 51 of the Constitution, this is an attack on the rights of workers and workers to the union in a free and independent manner and a major loss of rights. Now, it's important to say here that the new General Manager and Vice President will personally ask our fellow workers working at the Anadolu Agency to resign from the Syndicate, or I'll assign you to another location... that it can be domestic or foreign or exile elsewhere. It's impossible to accept. It's wrong, and it needs to be returned from the wrong as soon as possible. In the past six months, friends of the Anadolu Agency have been transferred from the supporting media, just as it has been done with the Ministry of National Education. Incredibly transfers were made from New Dawn to Anadolu Agency from New Akit (New Akit) to Channel 7 (Cal Canal 7) to Jahan News Agency and Zaman newspaper. The most important feature of these transferred journalists is that journalists and writers who have made the most unspeakable insults to the leader of the main opposition party have been selected privately and are being transferred to the Anadolu Agency. Now, none of this is a coincidence. The Anadolu Agency considers the Prime Minister's group talks -- especially on Tuesday -- as six seven pieces of news. The main opposition party and other opposition parties do not speak in two parts or at all, friends. This clearly shows how much independence and abandonment of the Anadolu Agency has been lost. We, lawmakers, make a written statement to the press. None of our press releases have been reported by the Anadolu Agency to the agencies, other newspapers, and broadcast organs. He only gives press releases and press conferences made by the group's vice presidents, but the Anadolu Agency does not provide press statements by lawmakers. Dear friends, just as other institutions have been invaded, the Anadolu Agency faces a clear and open occupation. Both employees are threatened and threatened by TGS. The union manager, branch head, representative, business representative, and chief of staff who are present there are not clearly and openly employed there. The director general and vice presidents have been threatening and threatening to protect and protect the constitutional rights and legal rights of union representatives working here, and I'm making these threats again. As I celebrate the 92nd anniversary of the Anadolu Agency, I want the freedom to give old independent and neutral news again to be restored, and I warn the government of that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0005par0039	Thank you, Mr. Pine. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Oktay Vural, a member of İzmir MP who has asked to address the 15th anniversary of the death of the deceased Alparslan Türkesh. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0006par0044	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, very valuable MPs; yes, 15 years have passed since April 4, 1997. The political leader of Turkish nationalism, founder of the nationalist movement and the Nationalist Movement Party, the late Alparslan Turkesh. In fact, that day, on April 4, 1997, when those millions were blessed, it was fifteen years after the funeral prayer that we had performed with fallen snows. Fifteen years later, the painting that we saw at his grave today was actually that he had lit a fire of purpose, not only that generation, but that fire kept heating up today's generation. When I saw young people standing over this grave with that fire, it was actually the meeting of generations raised by a justified leader of political struggles, not just for a generation, but for a political and intellectual struggle that would last for generations. And the youngest and the oldest, all together, and those who were present there at the funeral prayer, and those who did not see him, were at his grave, together, and we saw in that painting what kind of young generation was brought up against us today, as they did yesterday. Leaders don't really grow up easy. They say what they have to say. Of course, it's a mortal world, but when we see generations who grow up with these ideas, with the idea of the idea, we see that it actually lives and lives forever. Indeed, Alparslan Türkesh was passionate about the Turkish nation. His political philosophy is based on the Turkish nation. For him, serving the people is the greatest virtue of all, to be loyal to the people, to love, to respect, and to trust. For him, with his basic approach, he always defended the right, and he was right about his findings. To him, rights should be justified, rights should not be for the strong. If he wanted to defend the Turkish nation's rights, he had to continue to show his presence on the history stage as a powerful nation. Always thought of a world of priority. Alparslan Türkesh's political preference was always national sovereignty. The solution to our problems is to mobilise and stimulate public energy in a common goal as a nation, faith, willpower, and excitement. Our philosophy is to love, to count, to ask for his glory. Therefore, we oppose all regimes that oppose the free, democratic order, and we do not believe them. In his defence against the indictment of September 12th legislatures, he said: "The national excitement, which includes Turkish nationalism, which is an integral part of the Turkish nation, is also being judged, not only by the National Movement Party and those who voted for the DP." Yes, those who judged the idea of Turkish nationalism that day are already condemned to public conscience today. Of course, we see in a sad way that the same mentality wants to condemn Turkish nationalism and the idea of nationalism again today, that it wants to divide the nation through ethnic divisions, that it wants to destroy the idea of multilingual and parallel state practices. And here we are, at this time, raised by his ideas, representing a political party that he founded, and as members of the National Movement Party, I would like to say that we are determined today to continue our fight to bring this case to power, which he is justified in, as people who have sworn to fight against the existence of this nation and any political idea that it wants to prevent this nation from being strong. We remember him with mercy and grace, and God will make his place a paradise, and the Prophet will make his neighbor. My respects.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0007par0054	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0008par0057	Sir, there are demands of our position, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0009par0058	It's about the agenda.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0007par0059	Yeah, some of our friends got into the system. One minute at a time, I'll give you my word. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0009par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the fifteenth anniversary of the eternal arrival of one of the Turkish nation's distinguished statesmen, the late Prime Minister Alparslan Turkesh. Alparslan Turkesh was a person who gave the rarest example of the greatest love a human being could feed his nation. Alparslan Türkesh was a person who not only loved his people, but also knew his people and made serious, academic, ideological suggestions for the solution to all their problems - economic, social, cultural and political problems. Alparslan Turkesh's stand against the execution of the late Menderes, represented the democratic understanding of this parliament in 1977, the spirit of unity that reached out to every element that was national by reading compromise culture and Nazim Hikmet poetry, which invited leaders together to prevent the anarchy before 1980. Today, as Turkish nationalists, we wish his followers to be his soul, his grave, his light, his place, heaven, and the neighbor of the Holy Prophet. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0010par0066	Thank you. Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0011par0069	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the trial of the coup d'état on September 12th. A constitutional amendment to influence the referendum has given the impression that this trial has been opened, but the fascist generals of September 12th, who have been arrested today for causing suffering to thousands and tens of thousands of families, were also tried for having established a website because of the belief that it was a public trial, that it was a gas-seeking trial. I wanted to express my opinion on this matter. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0012par0072	Thank you. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0013par0075	Mr. President, it's NATO Day. As you all know, a base was set up in Malatya. I still haven't learned who's in charge of this base as a congressman. I've brought it up many times since October. I've been writing to the Joint Chiefs lately. I said: Mr. Chief of Staff, I want to visit this base. I'm told we don't have authority. I've been told to appeal to the State Department. I applied there, and the answer came from the Ministry of National Defense, and the relevant authorities refused to allow it. Now we've got the Globebeak Barrack Building Plan. Neither a minister nor an AK PARTY official gave a word to the Malatians, to us, to the National Assembly. What are they gonna do with this place? They're gonna build a fig base? I wonder what to do there. Also, as an MP, I'd like permission from the presidency, I'd like permission from the Prime Minister, I'd like permission from the Ministry of National Defense. The last thing I need is permission from the U.S. Embassy to enter that base. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0014par0079	Thank you. Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0015par0082	Mr. President, the founder of the National Movement Party is today the 15th anniversary of the death of Turkish nationalist leader, defender of Turkish nationalism and national identity and the wise leader of the Turkish world, Basbug Alparslan Türkesh Sir. On April 4, 1997, Ankara will continue to guide itself as a grand figure, a monument to history, to the future generation, to the future generation, to the state, to the country, to the religion, to the dianertine, and to the culture of the nation of the nation. As the National Movement Party, we will not forget him, we will not forget him, we will not forget him, and we will carry forward the banner he entrusted us with in achieving the national goals he showed us. Once again, I ask for God's mercy. I wish good fortune to our nation and to the Turkish world.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0016par0085	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Mr. Business...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0017par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to correct an assessment of my constituency yesterday by our Hakkari MP, Fair Wolf. Kazan was used as a statement that some of our people from the southeast were thrown out into the street. The expression "strength workers" is used here. There are no seasonal workers in the boiler. These people rent fields and they're busy with agriculture there. They also build slums in the fields they rent. These structures, of course, violate the 18th article of Law 775, titled preventing the construction of a new slum, which is why it has been processed. There's no such thing as throwing it out on the street, there's no distinction. Our Kazan district is migrating from all over Turkey, and there are no distinctions between our citizens living here. There are several huts that have been destroyed, others have been given time, and our municipality has also offered to give them tents. These citizens can rent a cheap house there if they want to. I wanted to fix this. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0018par0092	Thank you. Mr. Sun... No sun, sir? Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0019par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the day the coup d'état of September 12th. We've all been in court today, and we've seen there, and we've seen that the House must do its best not to dilute it, not only to limit it to two, but to open the way for the torturers and all those involved in all the events that day, to open the way of the House. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0020par0100	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0021par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Turkish body is the spirit of Islam. We will weave the bonds of mutual love and respect among our citizens, regardless of the difference between parties, sects, races and districts. We are in the 15th year of the death of our late leader Alparslan Turkesh. Once again, when we consider his importance to the Turkish youth, to his knowledge, to his knowledge, to his compassion and gratitude, I underline the fact that his name must be given to a university. The motion we have submitted has unfortunately been rejected by the Justice and Development Party's votes in the motion that Alparslan Türkesh should be named for Kayseri University. I wanted to remind the Turkish nation of that once again. The responsibility and the plague are on MPs from the Justice and Development Party. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0022par0106	Mr. Ünal...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0023par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we honor the late Alparslan Turkesh, who, for the rest of his life, sees the benefit of the nation as a deterrent of all matters when it comes to the state, to be with the oppressed, to be with the Turkish nation's country and its indivisibleness above any political dispute. God rest his soul.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0022par0111	Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0024par0113	Mr. President, today is the day the fascist generals of September 12th were charged with coup. In Turkey, I demand that these progressive, leftist, right-wing, democratic generals, who have suffered a great deal of pain to everyone... and that a real and complete democracy, human rights and freedoms, a pluralist and liberal democracy... be taken into action in this People's Assembly, which is now known as the Ergenekon case, and that these generals who are on trial for the coup attempt and the freedoms of our friends should be taken into action by the Turkish Grand National Assembly for a desire to live in our country.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0022par0114	Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0025par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Ankara MP has just stated that I was unfairly criticised by referring to a speech yesterday. No, we didn't have an unfair criticism, we, on the contrary, had a problem, and we shared that problem with the ruling party MPs before. After my speech at Congress yesterday, the mayor of Kazan himself made a personal call to promise us that he would solve the problem. I hope similar problems do not happen again, and I hope the President has made an attempt to deal with the victims of our citizens by being sensitive about it. And for that, I thank him. My goal wasn't to make an unfair criticism, but to raise a problem, and it's reached its goal. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0026par0119	Thank you. Finally, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0027par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the first day of the trial on September 12, 1980, when the president of the United States was tried for the coup by juntamen, who were praised by our children. For this reason, I strongly condemn all blows, whether military or civilian, who have been hit in the direction of NATO and imperialists, who have crushed their sons. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0028par0125	Thank you. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'll have them read separately. Since the first parliamentary survey motion I will read is more than 500 words, a summary of the motion will be read, but the full text of the motion will be added to the report magazine. Here you go. (x) (10/227) The original Parliamentary Research Investigation is included in the full text of the recommendation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Turkey, we require a study of media discrimination, aberration and genderist approach and language, the need to open Parliamentary Research under Articles 104 and I05 of the Constitution, in order to examine the results of this approach, and to establish a legal substructure for the removal of hate speech in the media. 27.10.2011 Using media communication tools widely, it is known that the cultural and social structure of society has a profound impact on the thoughts and behavior of individuals. The media should have an objective, biased, human rights-respecting, peace-speaking approach in the framework of universal principles for social events and problems, but unfortunately it uses a language that promotes hate speech in Turkey that fuels nationalism, militantism and sexism. The most burning examples of this occurred on October 23, 2011, in the visual media following the earthquake in Van, where everyone was upset. "We throw rocks whenever we want, we hit like birds in the mountains, and then when something happens, let's bring in the mehmed, let's bring in the police. Let's balance things out a little bit. In difficult times, my dear darling..." he made his statement. On Sunday (October 23rd) when the earthquake occurred, the news server Haberturk presented the news about the earthquake, using the expression "However much Van has, our pain is great." After the Van earthquake in the media, ethnic and segregated rhetoric on TV channels is unfortunately not unique. Academics and NGOs say nationalism is increasing in Turkey, while the media is known to have a large share in the issue. Militarian rhetoric, on the one hand, triggers violence and conflict, and the language used by the media is causing dissolution in society. Examples of different sections of the media reported by NGOs in this area have been submitted in the continuation of the motion for separate news and rhetoric. All these events show that there is a lack of law against hate crimes and discrimination and the urgency of such a law. On the other hand, an institution such as RTÜK, which exists in all of these cases, and the lack of action despite the law, suggests that the state is insensitive to this issue, even by not taking action. Using media as a means of oppression, the government imposed its own policies and a single-type approach, but in fact, a media that was increasingly removed from the principles of media and publishing ethics and lost its bias as a result of monopolism. As a result of the pressure and monopoly in the media, a sense of journalism and publishing was revealed that could not tolerate different and opposing views. Recently, journalists who have said or wrote something "disliked" in various newspapers and TV channels have become out of business. In a new social production process, the importance of using a language devoid of media language and hate speech is increasing. Therefore, we propose that a parliamentary research commission be established in the media to find out what can be done to prevent and prevent the results of segregation and other language and rhetoric, to establish an independent and objective press, to find out what legal arrangements should be made with NGOs working on this issue, and to actually investigate the measures. [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Constitution's 98th, TBMM Institution, in order to investigate claims made by the Public Housing Administration (TOKİ) that the housing was compromised by social state understanding and that the government used TOKI in the cities to collect votes, and that the TOKİ had done some serious damage to the construction sector. 104 and 105. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose the opening of a parliamentary investigation. With all due respect. In the emergence of the public housing name and in the first organisation, the goal was to solve the housing problem of small-incomes using public land and financing opportunities. In recent years, TOKI has set aside such a task and has turned to prestigious dwellings, as it states in its own ads. For a long time, public land, factories, public enterprises have been sold as "this is not the work of the state." A public institution, TOKI, has no harm in entering areas such as the shopping centre, which are free of public responsibility through public resources. This policy strengthens the claim that the current government uses TOKI to distribute or vote in cities. The Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures (TMMOB) and construction-related trade companies have long expressed their views on TOKI on various platforms. The organisation is now a major force within the construction sector, with the view that the TOKI "exceeds its true purpose and chooses to serve different purposes." Despite the fact that the TOKI was set up to meet social needs, such as in other countries, it has now strayed from its purpose. In his reviews, TMMOB argues that the sector has suffered considerable damage as a construction site owner with many of the TOKI's projects in existence and in progress. In addition to the macro-level planning and sustainable development model of TOKI, it is said that by creating a quick solution, it has produced a structure that is incompatible with the architectural fabric of cities with one type of architectural practice. TOKI has recently become a rival to companies operating in the sector, especially with luxury housing projects. These practices, unfortunately, jeopardize the future of the construction industry. Assuming the construction sector is one of the most important sectors in development, TOKI has put the sector in a difficult position with its applications. There are also many flaws in the technical infrastructure of TOKI projects, including the lack of technical implementation and control of projects that have been started in the planning phase. While many parameters have been ignored for the immediate completion of construction, the geological and geotechnic data of the areas that have been implemented have not been properly studied and are not being taken care of for the immediate completion of the work. Projects have serious concerns about manufacturing capacity and credibility. The control mechanism of our modern age is that the counseling firms are inadequate and invite to a potential disaster. In addition to a number of technical negatives, commercially, TOKI has a negative impact on the sector. Structural Control Corporations created by independent supervisors cannot be included in this system and cannot be enabled to enable controls. Construction companies and contractors are unable and unable to compete because of the privileges and privileges granted to the TOKI. Project fees, municipal fees, construction audit fees, which were not purchased from TOKI construction, have made competition virtually impossible. Despite all this twisted construction and organization, our people are interested in the TOKI practices. The cause of this request must be thoroughly investigated. Is it really those in need or are they the ones who rent out the apartments they're after for the runt and produce asymmetrical demand? It's an important fact that we're on the road with the password "Building cheap housing for the community" and that harming social, cultural and economic dynamics will negatively affect all the layers of society. [[Diyarbakır]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the province of Iğdır, especially in winter, the reasons why the air quality index has created pollution far above the daily averages, and for the purposes of the Constitution's analysis of its harmful effects on public health and living life in the region, are 98. And TBMM Internality 104 and 105. In accordance with the clauses, we respectfully announce the opening of "Meclis Research." The Plains of Iğdır is one of the low and widest plains of the Eastern Anatolian region, with micro-conditioning properties. In a region of high plateaus and mountain regions such as East Anatolia, the relative height of the province of Iğdır, which is determined to be a basin, has very different properties in terms of natural environments, such as climate and soil and vegetation. The province of Iğdır is listed by the environment and forest ministry among the first-degree cities in terms of air pollution. Air quality measurements began in November 2006, and all the values since then show that air pollution has reached very dangerous levels in Iğdır. Air pollutant parameters in winter and, depending on that, pollution is far over the limit values in terms of the daily averages of the air quality index. Air pollution control station 49, established during 2006 in Iğdır Province, shows that particulate matter pollution has repeatedly exceeded border values in 2006, 2007 and 2008. In November 2009, the graphic shows monthly air pollution values, showing that sulfur dioxide and sulfur dioxide levels from pollutants from pollution parameters are below limit values, but the particle matter values are too high and the limit values are too high. The formation of an inversion layer over the city, surrounded by high mountains, takes the air pollution to higher levels. In winter, particuinal pollution oversteps border values, particularly triggers respiratory diseases and threatens life. Because air pollution cannot be prevented in the Iğdır city centre, the mayor's office has warned the public that the public health is being protected and that the public should not go out at certain hours and wear masks. Because of dense air pollution in the region, the Iğdır people have been deprived of a healthy habitat. Therefore, the opening of Parliamental research will benefit greatly in order to investigate the reasons for air pollution in the province of Iğdır and the harmful effects of people living in the region as a whole and to determine solutions. Congressmans, the motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation have been submitted to your information. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. 04.04.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Wednesday, 4:04.2012 (Today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Constitution. M. Akif Hamzacebi On 04.11.2011, it was suggested that the Turkish Parliament of the Grand National Assembly, in order to shed light on the dark events that set the stage for the intervention of democracy, illegal organisation within the state, and the discovery of structures, the Parliamentary Research Front, which was given in order to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly (103 rows), be read in a joint joint session Wednesday (04.04.2012), as well as other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. On the proposal of the Republican People's Party Group, the first speaker is Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0029par0265	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. I have taken a pledge in favour of the group's proposal for a study proposal submitted by Republican People's Party MPs on the 4th month of 2011. The subject of this research motion is the lighting of dark events that have laid the groundwork for interfering with democracy, the illegal organisation within the state and the discovery of structures. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's a very important matter. It's a matter of our country's present and future that is very direct, very closely concerned and must be revealed. Therefore, the request for this by the Assembly's General Assembly, by our Parliament, to investigate the facts, and to set up a commission to determine the measures that must be taken in order to avoid such incidents. This demand should be the demand of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, this demand should be the demand of the political institution because the aim of anti-democracy intervention is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, democracy, which is that the Great National Assembly of Turkey, which is based here with your presence. Therefore, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it must be the sensitivity of the entire Turkish Grand National Assembly, not only the Republican People's Party, to investigate the reasons for the unlawful intervention in this democracy that has occurred before this, and to investigate the fact of the events set up to create the basis for this intervention. For him, we as the National Movement Party see the establishment of this commission as a very important, valuable, essential task that should not be postponed. I'd like to hope that the ruling party will be able to claim such a demand in this process, where democracy is being judged by the allegations of democracy. I hope that our friend, who will speak for the ruling party group, with the same precision, has no place in the establishment of such a commission, no time, full of agendas. Dear lawmakers, on this important issue, each person must state the matter by determining his own position. As the Nationalist Movement Party, as a Turkish nationalist, as a nationalist, the politics of this nation, the politics of its will, the politics of this nation's will, our position as a political party is this: as the Nationalist Movement Party, we use authority on democracy, on the will of the nation, on its own will, on the future of the nation, on its own free will, on its responsibility, on its system, no matter what the reason, and no matter who owns it, we do not approve of it, and we oppose it with all our power; it is our position, because it is our nation's our primary nation; we use authority on the people's will, we do the future of its existence, the future of its existence, politics. Therefore, we cannot approve of an intervention in the will of the nation. We don't see innocents in all sorts of cases that will develop this intervention, create grounds for this intervention. Some reasons may arise, good intentions may come into play, but there is no reason for us to approve of an intervention in the nation's will, in the removal of the Turkish Grand National Assembly of the nation's will, in the removal of this parliament's political power, the closure of political parties. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's a strange fact that today is April 4th. April 4th is the date when Basbug Alparslan Türkesh walked to Hakk. Fifteen years ago, it was April 4th, when Turkish political life, Turkish thought life, the anti-politicist of this nation's unity and unity, not with its numerical or proportional weight, but with its ideas, ideas and feelings, with its principles, the original weight in this nation's life, Alparslan Turkesh, walked towards Hakkk. We cherish him. The nationalist Movement Party and the economists are proud to experience the thrill of reminiscing over him every April 4th, and to uphold his principles. But it's odd that today, on April 4th, those who wish to punish the late Turk are put on trial to be sentenced to death. It's a strange expression, a divine expression. Alparslan Turkesh who dedicated his entire life to this nation, defended democracy, defended the will of the nation. I was a manager at the time. We were court-martialed for defending democracy. Then we were tried for the execution of an organization to eliminate the democracy we were defending. It's a bitter contradiction. But intent is important. That intention... that Turkish nationalist, Alparslan Turkesh, who advocates the will of the Turkish nation, is a disgrace to those who have tried him for treason, who want to punish him for treason, today, in this date when he walked to Hakk. Fifteen years later, I would like to submit to my nation's appreciation that they have come before the trial as defendants of a trial that they will probably be tried for execution. That's the main thing, people. Those who stand by and watch the events to justify such an intervention by eliminating this nation's will, by eliminating this nation's will, by eliminating the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the political institution, and watching dozens of people lose their lives every day, are standing before the people today, a divine act of justice, to pay for their crimes. Dear lawmakers, the coup of September 12 has hurt everyone, but the people who have suffered the most have suffered, the Nationalist Movement Party. We don't give away our rights, we personally, institutionally, we don't give away our rights to those who did the coup of September 12th, but we say: "It's no use to bring yesterday's arguments to the present day by scratching the wounds that have been shelled, and bringing yesterday's disputes to the present day and reinstating the pain again." I express my concern. Turkey is drifting towards a gay well. A series of unpredictable processes are rapidly being initiated. It is not in this country's best interest to start a series of proceedings in order to face the past, in order to make it lawful, to question, to condemn, to condemn this nation. We see that this trial, which began, is very important and valuable as a statement of will. Our nation is holding this case against those who want to keep its own will, against those who want to destroy it, with an intervention that has passed 500 percent today. We care about that, but we also feel it's not going to do anyone any good to scratch shell-clad wounds that can't predict consequences, which don't have any social benefits. Therefore, it would be very good for the Republican People's Party to bring up this motion for research and investigate it on the floor of parliament. We, the National Movement Party, support this motion in this sense. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0030par0281	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Second speaker, on the contrary, Mr. Fair Wolf, Mr. Hakkari MP. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0031par0285	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. On 16 March 1978, thirty-four years and eighteen days ago, seven university students were killed and 41 students were injured in the explosion of a bomb in front of İstanbul University School of Pharmaceuticals. Of course, over the course of time, over the past 34 years, there's nothing left to talk about, there's a lot to talk about. The purpose of this bomb, who put it there, how it's protected, it's obvious. There's no point in standing here over and over again because there's nothing unknown about it, it's all been known. Nine days before the bomb was planted, everyone knows that an intelligence officer had submitted a report to the Istanbul Security Directorate and that such a bomb would be planted, everything has been discussed. Of course, there's almost nothing that's not discussed, unspoken, about opening channels to interfere with the country's administration in non-democratic ways by leaving the square empty like this and conspiring in the way that someone wants. Today, in Ankara, the trial of those who created this plot, those who created these plots, the trial of the coupgers of September 12th began to be seen.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0032par0287	Are they clerks?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0031par0288	But even those who did this blow were not brought to trial today, as are the defendants of this case, which has no secrets at all. They started making excuses. In countries we didn't like, the defendants were brought to court on gurneys, under what circumstances Pinochet was brought in, on trial. The Kenan universe, unfortunately, has a case against him, he's being tried, but he's still a privileged individual. Our orators have expressed here earlier, in the trial of a man accused of coup, the blood of the youth of this country, if the President is carrying the post of President, we have stated that the House must discuss his position before the trial before the trial. But here's the thing: in the country, in fact, we need to discuss these events as a whole instead of one by one. What has changed in this country from September 12, 1980 to today? There's a lot going on in this country, the people of this country have changed, this country's modernized, nothing's like 34 years ago, but there's one thing that's left like 34 years ago, that's mentality. The mentality that ruled this country thirty-four years ago today is the same mentality that governs this country, and we are ruled by the same mentality. We have to change our minds, we have to change our mentality, or it won't mean much if the Kenan Universe is tried or not. Today, the Prime Minister accuses us, saying: "With what face did those who did not vote for the September 12, 2010 referendum go there?" We won't have to explain it over and over again. But look, the Prime Minister, who has expressed his intention to resolve the Kurdish problem next to Obama, has accused us of custody today. I ask you, do you want to explain the prescription for a problem in your own country next to Obama? Come here every day, every hour, every time we talk, let's discuss this problem together. If you're looking for a contact, it's obvious. If you want a dialogue, let's discuss it together and talk. Let's build the floor of the negotiation. And yet we're labeled extensions. If someone is an extension, we're not the ones who went and spoke in Seoul, we're not the ones who made a statement about it, we're not the extensions. Look, if we want to face all of these problems rationally, if we want to learn from the mistakes of the past, we need to not repeat the past today. It's today's TK indictment. As an example, I'm going to share a few sentences with you for the record in this House. Look, Professor Dr. Büşra Ersanlı, a member of the Central Executive Board of the Party for Peace and Democracy, is being charged with what? He is accused of campaigning for independent members of the BDP. He wasn't going to come and work for the AKP or CHP or the CHP, but he was going to work for the parliamentary candidates of his party. Another example: according to the prosecutor, a phone call between Nuray Mert and Büşra Ersanlı. The writer Nuray Mert had called Büşra Ersanlı. The statement from the conflict has also been interpreted in the indictment as: "In the interview, the security forces of the Republic of Turkey described the country's indivisible integrity as a war on legal defence for the peace and security of citizens. Moving on, two citizens made a phone call amongst themselves, someone asked someone for a white MEKAP shoe. Look at the transition of the indictment: the suspect appears to be interviewing for a specific brand of shoes used by the terrorist organization's mountain staff. Regarding Ragıp Zarakolu, the statements made to the indictment are: BDP's two talks at the political academy have been considered criminal evidence for itself, and therefore he is required to serve 15 years in prison. I've shared it here before, so look at the indictment of the Erzurum KCK case, and I'll put it in front of you like this. In that indictment, it says: "Hamit Smoke, our party manager, in the meeting, we were hungry with another party manager outside, so make us a burrito on the way in." The indictment reads: "The accused Hamit Smoket wants rocket bullets from his friend, a member of the terrorist organization, to be used in actions. I can give you more examples, not just one. All of these examples are for this: Thirty-four years and eighteen days ago, Turkey is doing the same thing today as the mind, logic, and reason that ruled it. That logic has to change. This has nothing to do with individuals, parties, people. If you do not change the mindset, if you do not interfere with the change of mind, you will face the same problems. It was the scheme of those who went out after ten years and committed the roboski massacre, those who intervened in democratic politics in Turkey, those who wanted to. Let's not be surprised if we come across comments like that. May God give you all a long life, we'll see that ten years from now, but if we really want to face all of these problems, we support this motion of research, but we know it's not enough. He's been on the agenda of Congress before, so let's set up a commission to investigate the facts to face all these problems, to face the past, whoever made a mistake, and let's never put these files in front of us again. Yeah, let's not push, not scratch... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But not without a face-to-face. I made a promise against him, but he had nothing to say against it. I declare that we're in favor, that we'll vote positive.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0033par0301	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. The third speaker is Mr. Riza Turmen of İzmir in favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Specten.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0034par0305	Mr. President, I have been promised to speak in favour of the Republican People's Party's motion to investigate the revelation of the events leading to the coup of September 12th. It is not a coincidence that our meeting of this motion coincides with the day of the September 12 coup trial. As the trial begins, the investigation of the events that led to it by the start of the trial on September 12th is actually a complementary event, which should be discussed as a whole. When these two are considered as one, we see that our House is taking an open stance against the coup of September 12th and all coups. The acceptance of this research proposal is also important in this regard. Really, dear friends, this Parliament is the temple of democracy in Turkey. Democracy is protected in this House, democracy is created in this House. Protecting this House against any coup, regardless of where it comes from -- civil or military -- no matter what ideology it's made with, no matter what purpose it serves, it's protecting democracy in Turkey, it's protecting democracy in Turkey, it's making democracy move forward in Turkey. For him, we have to be able to do it together. Our motion to investigate is a sign of that. As the Republican People's Party, we have shown a insistence on the trial of the coup of September 12 and the enlightenment of the events that led to this coup, the healing of the victims' wounds. When you look at our general line, you see this attitude. For example, during the 23rd Legislature, we submitted a motion to remove the temporary 15th article of the Constitution, and we signed it, but since we could not find the support of the Justice Development Party, the motion was not submitted. After that, on 22/9/2010, we submitted a parliamentary inquiry to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. With this motion, we asked for a parliamentary investigation to determine both the events of September 12th and the causes of the coup and those responsible for what happened afterwards. That didn't produce any results either. When you look at this Legislative period, our friends have made many motions. For example, on September 12, 1980, we offered a law on the decisions of the military coup regime and on giving financial and spiritual compensation to victims or relatives. Another law proposal, September 12, 1980, was offered the Law to Resolve the Victims Caused by the Impact Process. We've proposed a law to reopen professional associations and organisations that have been closed after the coup of September 12, 1982. All of this shows that the Republican People's Party has made a constant effort to ensure that the coup of September 12 coup is not left without question, that it is questioned, that it is punished by those responsible, that the victims are eliminated. In parallel with this effort, we have been involved in the judicial process that began today. We got involved because of the coup of September 12th, which may be the biggest, which, of course, has suffered the most damage here, and we're not doing the contest, but I think one of the parties that's suffered a lot is the Republican People's Party. The Republican People's Party has been closed in the coup of September 12th. Their manager, the President-General, has been taken into custody and arrested, all his property has been seized. Of course, it is natural that such a victimized party is involved in the judicial process that began today. But on the other hand, we see that the government wants to be involved in the case. Of course, friends, when you look at the Penal Code, the 237th article is very clear. You have to be damaged to be involved. The criteria for being damaged can be discussed in this government, because when you look at it, you see that the government is taking advantage of the laws of the coup of September 12th, much less of being harmed. The 10% threshold is a dam brought with the coup d'état of September 12th, which is still valid today. The Article 83 of the Constitution, which led to the arrest of eight MPs today, is still valid today, with the coup of September 12th. The Minister of Justice being President of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors is still in effect today in the coup d'état of September 12th. It's possible to replicate more of these samples. So the picture from all of this is that today's government is actually the one who's taking advantage, not the one who's taking advantage of the pattern of the September 12 coup. How are you going to take advantage of one side, and get involved with the other? This is a question mark. So there's also the question in terms of the proposal: Turkey's Grand National Assembly is also involved, and so is the government, but does the state really need to be involved? Because what is the duty of the Attorney General of the Republic, my friends? The Attorney General of the Republic's duty is to protect public interests. Of course, the Parliament or the government is part of the public, part of the state. So, when there's a Attorney General there who's supposed to protect public interests, how much does the government need to be involved in the proposal? That's another question. The subject of the research proposal that we've submitted today is a more specific event here, which is related to the bombings and the shootings of the White House on March 16, 1978. This incident has been buried, the perpetrators have not been found, and the investigation has produced no results. It's not a single event, of course, you see a lot of events in September 12th that look like this. The problem is still going on today, so those who commit crimes on behalf of the state... once, not a state criminal organization, but if government agents are committing crimes, then the state has an obligation to find, investigate, and bring these criminals to justice. This obligation has not been fulfilled in this case, nor has it been fulfilled in other cases. It's not just September 12th that the government's taking care of its own agents, its own agents who committed crimes, and it's still happening today. The Hrant Dink case is one of the most concrete examples. So we're not actually pointing fingers at an old wound that's been closed when we're making this research proposal, but a wound that's still open, which is still open. It is important that the state and the judiciary do not take wing of those who commit crimes, that they do not take care of government agents, that they fulfill their obligations in order to go after them and to be punished. These obligations are not yet fulfilled by our government, nor are they today. We hope that the trial of September 12th and at the same time this research commission are crucial to being a deterrent in preventing many incidents from being revealed and never repeating such blows. Therefore, we hope that the party groups in the entire Turkish Grand National Assembly, the MPs, will support our research proposal. It's actually a democracy motion beyond a research proposal. We expect all of your support in this regard. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0035par0314	Thank you, Mr. Specten. Against you, the last speaker is Mr. Naci Bostancı, MP of Amassian Congress. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0036par0318	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before I begin, on the fifteenth anniversary of his death, I, Alparslan Turkesh, remember him with mercy and gratitude. Great political leaders who have left a mark in history, after their passing, settle in a different historical and political bond. They are no longer part of daily political speculation, but part of the long history of that nation, as has Mr. Alparslan Turkesh. The late Erbakan, Ecevit, and our nation's attitude towards them have been shaped by an attitude beyond everyday political debate. I remember it with mercy again. Today, I'm going to talk to you about my party's proposal for the Republican People's Party -- which took place on March 16, 78, at İstanbul University -- which resulted in the killings of seven university students, many of them injured. Today, at the same time, is the day the September 12th trial began. This case is vital for Turkey to shed light on its recent history, show what it has accomplished to the people living today. Hopefully, there'll be a case process of its own weight, and people who are equally concerned, environments that wanted to be involved -- sometimes in different poles before 80 -- will cooperate today to reveal the truth through this case. The truth is important, as the Latins say, that the truth frees the truth, to confront the truth, to show what happened in the past, to free this society from the ties of the past, and in this case, those who are on different sides of the past will cooperate for this truth. One of the most fundamental issues that will match the weight of the case and put reality in front of society is this cooperation. Dear friends, before September 12th, I was a student in Political. I finished Siasa, it's September 12th. The incident that was made into a motion here was a tragedy that I read in the black and white newspapers of the period the next day. It's very dramatic recently, and if we're going to say it in its own way, it's really one of history's black spots. Seven students, nineteen, twenty, twenty-one years old, seven students were brutally murdered there. (*) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Minister. We know that in the chaos that occurred before September 12th in Turkey, the only incident in chaos was not the incident that took place on March 16, 78. March 16, 78, as stated in this motion, is just one of the pieces of the big picture of the 12th of September. If we want to get to the truth about what's going on, if we want to get to a reality, if we want to put this in front of society, we have to put all the pictures of that puzzle, all the elements that make up that puzzle, all the elements that are connected to it, on the table, and deal with them. Apart from what happened on March 16th, 78, I can count on you in one stroke, regardless of the newspapers, without reading the books about that period. For example, it's been talked about, discussed, the great tragedy on May 1, 77, the incident in the division is one of the pieces of that puzzle. I'll tell you another name, Kemal Fedai Eşkuner, who may not have any effect on many people's memories right now, but as someone who lived 80 years ago, I know how he was killed; I saw the pictures reflected in the newspapers, the body that had fallen on the ground in blood. Ilhan Darendelioğlu, the late Gün Sazak, were all equally part of this puzzle. I didn't just read about it in the papers, but as someone who lived at the time -- if there were others who lived at that time -- I'm the one who removed the young bodies of those children from the morgues, 18, 19. I'm a man who stood in front of those morgues, who wanted to understand the silence, the anger of the people who were waiting there, and what had happened to him, and I saw it firsthand. Not only about the suffering of others, friends, but also about the funeral of Yasar Bostancı, who was killed on October 26, 1979, in Suluova district of Amasya, at 7:02 p.m., I also removed my brother's body from the morgue. Yaşar Bostancı and İlhan Darendelioğlu, and the events in the news at the University of İstanbul are all part of that puzzle. We need to see this whole picture and talk about this whole picture. We know the environment of 80 years ago, how it was a coastal and wild environment, how people saw each other in that atmosphere called right and left conflict, I know that, but after September 12th, we also saw this, and we experienced this, and we actually experienced living, and as someone who had actually spent a year in Mamak Prison, the approach of that period was to mix, to make peace. It was an approach to Mamak Prison. When they mixed us up, we saw the left and the right: in fact, we had many reasons to be hostile, and we had many reasons to be hostile, and we had many reasons to have kinship, friendship, and brotherhood. We've seen a fine line between hostility and kinship. The fine line between that hostility we saw yesterday at Mamak Prison and your kinship, we can put aside any political, political struggle we have today during this September 12th trial, and we can get somewhere by cooperating on what happened in the truth, and we can cross that line. I see this proposal as an opportunity in this sense, given by CHP, but I see it as a incomplete motion because it only points to one of the pieces of the puzzle. Surely the dear friends in the CHP also know that there are many other events in that puzzle, they remember that they have not only information about them, but feelings about them, hearts. Now, this is a very important mission in front of the House, and the September 12th case is a very important opportunity for that. Here, political parties can co-operate, make it clear what happened in the past, bringing light to Turkey's future. It is said that the same river can have different meanings for two different communities. One of the communities sees the river as a barrier, a metaphor in front of its going away, while another community may see it as a path to the distant horizons. September 12th was a barrier in front of this nation. It was an obstacle not only to itself, but also as part of a tradition of coups; we can now join hands to find a way to reach the distant horizons of this country. A motion by the EC PARTY has also been submitted to the Parliamentary Presidency. By combining and putting together the political work here, I hope we'll do a good job, and how Turkey went through these coups, and what came out before the coups, who are these direct, indirect perpetrators, we put them in front of society, we do this reckoning, and that's how we move forward into the future. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0037par0335	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0038par0338	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0037par0339	We've got a roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Pine, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Soydan, Mr. Topal, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu, Mr. Sugar, Mr. Savutça, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Nice, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Turman, Mr. Kart, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Şeüceer, Mr. Onur, Mr. Güven. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough numbers of meetings. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, the Justice and Development Party Group now has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Since the advisory council cannot meet on Wednesday (now) 04.04.2012, I request that the following proposal of our group be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Charter. AK PARTY Group Deputy President Law proposal 215 and 207, which are part of the Commission's Commissions and Proposals of Laws, was proposed to be taken into the ranks of the 4th and 5th, and the order of other tasks according to this. The first speaker, Mr. Mehmet Doğan Kabbat, on the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group, is Mr. Mehmet Doğan Kubat, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Kubat. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0039par0363	Mr. President, very dear MPs, at the very beginning of my words, I ask the late Alparslan Turkeş, who left us 15 years ago, for his mercy. May his soul rest in peace and his place be in heaven. Dear friends, the EC PARTY group's proposal suggested that law proposal 215 and 207 at the end of the agenda be placed in the 4th and 5th place of the Department of Business from Law Bills and Proposals. Where did this need come from? Proposal 215 is related to the Criminal Records Act. In fact, this proposal is included in Articles 82, 83 and 84 of the Law Bill 464/544, which is currently being discussed in the Justice Commission. However, the regulation on the archive records of the Court's 12th Article of the Judiciary Register (the Court of Justice) in Article 2 (the Constitutional Court) was cancelled on April 14, 2011 and on Article 27905 published in the Official Gazette, and the Constitutional Court ruled that this annulment be issued a year after it was issued in the Official Gazette. Due to the possibility that these bill talks could be extended, in terms of the proposal of the relevant substances in the draft bill, which would be passed before April 14th... because if this law cannot be passed, the legal framework, based on the holding of the records of the criminal record prior to 2005, would be removed and therefore a legal gap would be created. This is why it is requested that this offer be placed in the front row and discussed. The draft law on criminal record and supervised liberalisation of 207 rows has also included healing regulations for criminal execution law. For example, if conditions are met in this new arrangement, it may be possible for the prisoner to spend the afternoon in prison with his family. Therefore, the proposal has been made to ensure that both regulations do not have a legal gap, and that those who are legally able to take advantage of it immediately may be able to take advantage of it. I say I will vote in favour of the proposal, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0040par0370	Thank you, Mr. Kubat. Our second speaker on the proposal is Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0041par0373	Mr. President, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I salute you all. The Justice and Development Party Group has proposed that the Turkish Grand National Assembly's agenda be discussed in the General Assembly, taking the two legislation and proposals, which are at the top of the agenda, at the 150th and 160th. We have no objection to the fact that these will be front-rowed and discussed in the General Assembly. One of the drafts is making changes to the Law on Criminal Records. Part of the amendments to the Criminal Record Act is a positive view of the Republican People's Party Group, and we support it, but there are arrangements that we find incorrect or incomplete. Again, we find it positive, despite the lack of regulations in the law that we can call the Law on Determination. After all, it's an arrangement that will allow 15,000 people to be evacuated from prisons. I would like to say that we consider this arrangement to be a positive view of the legalisation of the law. However, I can't pass these two drafts and proposals on the front of the Turkish Grand National Assembly agenda, even though they were already on the agenda, and we will see, we will legislate in the General Assembly. Despite the fact that some drafts or proposals are not on the agenda for some reason. For example, Law Proposal number 136 during the 16th time of the agenda, despite talks with the Justice and Development Party Group for nearly a month, it has not been able to meet on the agenda. The offer I'm talking about is a proposal for a change in the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Security Protection. As a matter of fact, it's an arrangement that allows prisoners to visit their relatives for even a day or two in case they're seriously ill, like their parents. Such a humanitarian arrangement awaits the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Justice Commission Report on the issue is dated January 13, 2012. The Republican People's Party Group's proposal for this was dated September 22, 2011, and then the Justice and Development Party Group made a similar offer, which was consolidated to the Justice Commission, and the Justice Commission submitted its report to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 13 January 2012. So there's an offer that's been waiting to be seen for three months, but it can't be seen. Today, members of the Justice and Development Party, members of the Justice and Development Party, have stated that this will be brought up next week, but since these promises have been made a lot before, I don't mean to say that I have taken this word with caution, but I don't take it with caution. I'm not telling the truth. I hope that next week, at the latest, this offer will take place on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and we will see each other. ▪ The arrangement we envisioned as an audited freedom is an arrangement that will produce an important result, such as the evacuation of about 15,000 people from prisons, prisons, and prisons. It's a very positive arrangement, but I wish such regulations could have come in the penal system within the framework of a reform package in the judicial system. The main point of this arrangement is that there are about 130,000 prisoners and convicts in prisons, so there is no place for prisoners and prisoners to sleep in prisons anymore, so it is urgent that a certain section of prisons be evacuated because prisoners, prisoners, prisoners, are forced to lie on concrete floors, and they are on bed watch so that they can lie in bed-time. In such a frame, the Government, the Justice and Development Party Group, not a judicial reform, let's evacuate 15,000 people with a palliative solution so that there'll be room, we'll put new prisoners and prisoners in prisons... Now, it has become very clear that a government with such a sense of judgment has no agenda for such judicial reform. Mr. President of the Constitutional Court has made a statement a few days ago that the political institution should stop surrounding the judiciary. It is a very important statement. The President of the Constitutional Court wants the political institution no longer involved in the judiciary, not to control the judiciary at this point. In contrast, one Deputy Prime Minister, between the lines, let each one mind his own business. In terms of the Prime Minister, he represents another version of the sentence we're used to. So when Mr. President of the Supreme Judiciary, Mr. President of the Constitutional Court, expressed a positive opinion on the various laws of the Constitutional Court, the opinion of the President of the Court is now shared by the government, but it means that Mr. President is concerned that he has decided that the events he has seen or witnessed have become so advanced that he feels the need to make such a statement, that he should no longer be involved in political judgment, that he should stop surrounding the judiciary. In contrast, a Deputy Prime Minister can say, "Let each one mind his own business." Today, the judiciary is under siege from the political institution. I said there are 130,000 people in our prisons. There is a trial that stands in the way of national will, 8 MPs are under arrest. Although the arrested MPs are a fact of our country, the MPs must serve in the Turkish Grand National Assembly as a part of their national will, the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has made no comment on this issue. I wonder, a Deputy Prime Minister has spoken twice about this, saying that the arrested MPs should be in parliament. Yes, a Deputy Prime Minister said that twice, and then, of course, what should be expected is that the government steps forward. Actually, there's one question that needs to be asked, and that is, why isn't the government taking a step forward when the Deputy Prime Minister says so? But secondly, what we need to ask Mr. President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: Mr. Speaker of Parliament, do you not feel the need to make a similar statement when a Deputy Prime Minister has made a public statement about this, or do you not feel the need to visit arrested MPs in prisons as the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? This is a duty to Mr. Cemil Cicek, as Speaker of Parliament, beyond human solidarity. An MP has been elected, arrested, unable to come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; Mr. President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is holding a humanitarian visit, a holiday visit, a heartfelt visit, a moral visit from arrested MPs. Dear lawmakers, the judiciary must not act out of vengeance, not with a sense of hatred. Again today, a Chief of Staff is in prison on charges of being the leader of a terrorist organization. The Constitutional amendment, adopted by the September 12, 2010 referendum, is the Supreme Court of Staff commanders and chiefs of staff, and there is a judiciary that puts that ruling aside, and there is a coalition of judicial conduct. With documents that we can call fabrication -- it would be unfair to call it a document -- to be discredited by fabricated documents, pieces of paper, the command of the Turkish Armed Forces. All of this is a trial that has no evidence, that has no right to the public, that has no right to the citizens, that has no right to the position of the accused, and that is not the kind of... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...in the judicial system, we, unfortunately, discuss a number of very small issues here. Since my time is over here, I'm calling it off. My respects to all of you. (Cheers and applause from CHP rows.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0042par0388	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. The second speaker, Salih Husband, is an Eskişehir MP, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Husband.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0043par0392	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of our proposal for the AK PARTY group. I salute your high council. Especially since March 28th, our work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has reached considerable distances from the changes in the law that our people have been eagerly awaiting. I wish all legal changes would bring blessings to our country and our nation. As the EC PARTI, we propose that the Law Proposal for Amendments to the Law Code 215 rows and the Law Bill on the Execution of Criminal Security Measures 207 rows be taken to the fourth and fifth places on the agenda, and that other matters be considered accordingly. In short, I would like to point out the reasons for this proposal: The Constitutional Court had already called off the Law Proposal for Changes in the Criminal Record Act. The Constitutional Court has decided that an annulment order should be carried out a year after it was published in the Official Gazette so that there would be no legal loophole. Due to the release of the Constitutional Court's decision on April 14, 2011, it will expire on April 14, 2012. If there is no amendment to the Criminal Record Act before 14 April 2005, there will be legal gaps in keeping records of the archives prior to 1 June 2005. Therefore, the change must be made urgently. Again, the other bill that we propose to prioritize in the agenda is about the execution of criminal security measures. In punishment, the main goal is to restore criminals to society. The biggest concern of the convicts is the difficult living conditions that await them after they leave the execution institution. Therefore, it is critical that prisoners be left in public, under control, planned, and supported outside, and brought to society by criminals. Under supervised freedom, it will be possible to employ measures such as working in a public service, not in prison for suspected defendants and convicts, but to go to the police station or to sign off on supervised liberalisation units at a specific time, such as staying out of a specific environment or leaving a specific area. In addition, a measure will be taken, as the last year remaining in the open penal institution will be executed outside with supervised liberalisation measures. The penalty regime is also envisioned. About 10, 15,000 people are expected to benefit from this law. So I think it's our duty to address the concerns of our convicts who are anxious to make a change in the law. It is appropriate that the laws on society be passed at once. Therefore, the group believes that our ranking sensitivity in our proposal is our common sensitivity, regardless of the party, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0044par0401	Thank you, Mr. Husband. Talks on the Justice and Development Party proposal have been completed. Now, I submit the group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the group proposal is accepted. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move on to the part of the Commission's Other Affairs with Law and Proposals. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Law Bill on the Transformation of Areas Under Disasters, which is ranked in the 2nd place, where we left off from the Ministry, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission and the Plan and Budget Commission reports in the 3rd ranking position of Public Servants' Union Law. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. In yesterday's merger, the votes were completed in the first part of the draft bill, which was considered the main law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter covers the 19th and 35th article. First speaker on behalf of groups on the second chapter, Mr Mustafa Kalaycı on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, MP of the Conium. Mr. Tin Man, here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0045par0425	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group over the second chapter of the 200 rows of law bill being discussed. On this occasion, I salute you all. First of all, the founder of our party that walked to Hakk fifteen years ago, the legendary leader of Turkish nationalists, Alparslan Türkeş e I ask for the grace of God. May his place be in heaven, his grave be in light, his soul be in peace. The AKP government has not yet given pension hikes to officials and pension widows and orphans in 2012 to victims of 4/C, persons of 65-year-old age, disabled, veterans, veterans and martyrs, village rangers and muhtars, whose salaries are calculated by the employee's salary coefficient. (x) 200 S. Numbered Basmaz 2/4/2012 has been added to its 88th Union Charter. Although we have entered the fourth month of 2012, about 6 million people have failed to receive salary increases in 2012. For the first time, the AKP government has gained the title of government, which condemns these people to a non-existent salary, and has become history. So what's the motive? The legal arrangement we're discussing with you about the collective agreement is that it hasn't been taken out by this time. It has been 18 months and 20 days since the 12 September referendum on the Constitutional Amendment. And who is responsible for the fact that this law has not been passed in such a long time? Of course it's the AKP government. There is no excuse for an election. In the meantime, there were 308 legal regulations, including 273 laws and 35 laws. Mr. Secretary, with his opposition on the lower commission, with his power, for a long time, this matter has been studied, assessed. You're making excuses? I was a member of that commission. The subcommittee has not been called to a meeting for more than a month. Only two days of work, two of which were held at the Plan and Budget Commission. It's been two and a half months since the bill came to Parliament. The AKP government, which passed the law it requested within a day from the Turkish Grand National Assembly, ignored and abandoned nearly 20 million of our citizens with their families. We view the AKP government's position as a disgrace and a disgrace to humanity. I'm asking the government if you didn't have time and you haven't passed this law until now. Or is your capacity inadequate? Or don't you have a source? When you want, you can pass laws on matters that are runt or touch at the end of them and immediately get them approved by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The law on protecting the Undersecretary of the MIT knows how you took out regulations such as the law on releasing your mayor from prison for misdemeanor abuse. Many of the arrangements you've already made include how public land can be looted, how to provide staffing, how to avoid contract legislation, control and judgment. The AKP government has imposed persecution on our narrow and fixed-income citizens, with the increases it has imposed, as it has not given the 2012 salary hikes. Every day, the citizen faces news of a new raise. The AKP government has no conscience, mercy and mercy. Can electricity be increased by 9% in one day, by 19 percent in natural gas? Don't you think of the poor poor, our narrow and fixed-income citizens? How can our industrialist, our exporter, compete with the cost of so much input? Get these raises back now. Public employees, victims of 4/C, pensioners, persons of sixty-five-year-old age, disabled, veterans, martyr relatives, village rangers and residents have been faced with paying more than the salary hike they will receive before they can receive their salary margins. The examination, the medicine, the box, the prescription, even the part of their health care allowance alone, has now become an important part of their monthly allowance. Why are you ignoring these cuts when you're talking about salary increases? While the public employees' salary is being accounted for, housing rents have been raised, service fees have been raised, food prices increased, taxes, tuitions have been increased. The government has delayed their salary hikes. Then he must pay the price of delay. Therefore, the increase in wages, which is valid from January 1, 2012, must be added by the amount of compensation for public pay per month. Dear lawmakers have marked the talks of Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc, three and a half months ago, during the talks of this bill. Mr. Arinc, under the opinion of Officer-Sen, the law will be changed and the collective agreement will be signed, and no one will have to worry about that.' he said. He has spoken the truth, and so has he. We are in the midst of a bill laid out in the direction that Mr. Arinc said. However, Mr. Secretary, the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, in charge of this law, says that the Deputy Prime Minister has not made the slightest recommendation until the bill reaches this point, but that is where the Deputy Prime Minister's public speech stands. What, you mean, never mind, don't take Mr. Arinc to the castle? He is not an ordinary person, he is the Deputy Prime Minister and a spokesman for the AKP government, who, of course, speaks to the government. Mr. Secretary, according to yesterday's information, the number of members of Officer-Sen is 505,378, 43.2% of the union's public employees. 57.8 per cent of the union's public employees are members of other unions. In that case, Mr. Secretary, I'll ask you some questions and I'll give you the answers, but if you can say it isn't, go out and explain. According to this bill, who has the majority of members of the Union of Public Servants' Committee? Officer-Sen. Notice that Officer-Sen, who owns 43 per cent of all union public employees, has 60 per cent of the members of the delegation. As the Confederate representatives are appointed, Officer-Sen will be able to appoint 1 representative for each 57,000 members, 1 representative for each 100,000 members, and KESK will be able to appoint 1 representative for each 116,000 members. Is there justice in the representation? Obviously not. Who's in charge of signing the collective contract alone? Officer-Sen is with the President-General. Again, who has the right to appeal to the People's Officers Referee Board? Officer-Sen is with the President-General. What's left anyway, Minister? What is the authority of the other president and representatives of the confederacy that represent more than half of all union public employees? What will they do in the delegation? According to the bill, extras. However, according to the ILO norms, each union must be granted the right to represent its members in collective negotiations. You and KESK, who represent 54 per cent of the officers, are completely excluded from the bill. That's exactly what Mr. Bulent Arinc said, so let's not be fooled, he's demonstrated the understanding of the AKP mentality. Whatever was in his test leaked out. The implementations of public entry and promotions have already shown that the criteria for voting and support for public tenders are based on public access and public utilities. They asked the scorpion, "Why do you let people in?" He said, "It's my medicine. I'm made of it." That's the basis of the AKP mentality: to deceive people, to deceive them, to show favor to their allies. Those who came to power saying, "Hazreti Omar is justice" have also experienced the persecution of Abu Lahab against themselves and his followers, against those who do not deserve everything. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish the bill would be a blessing. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0046par0451	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. Second speaker for the groups, Süleyman Çelebi for the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0047par0455	Mr. President, I have been promised to share the very valuable MPs' views on the Republican People's Party's draft of public employees' law. I salute the High Council with respect, with love. Dear friends, knowing that this law is an emergency matter of Turkey, we have expressed our will, we have spoken our opinions in the Commission, we say our opinions here, but in terms of a law-making technique, the opposition's suggestions, its rhetoric is flying here; I see it; so you say it's a futile effort. You say, you talk, talk, talk. But it doesn't go like this, it doesn't go like this. Now, I just found out that all the executives from KESK are sitting in the Minister's office, I think they're there. Why? Well, that's where it's always presented. Agreement. We meet with the Covenant, we get the views of the social parties, and that's how it's presented. But they also object that at least don't speak for us, but express us there, we don't have an agreement on this law. We've seen it on commissions, we've seen their criticism. Most of the criticism there was ignored. The AKP has this approach: I've lived in the union presidency, and now I'm living in parliament: you're interviewing social groups -- your skills are good before God -- but you're writing what you're talking about on ice, and you're getting out of that chair and you're getting social views. That's not true, that's not classy. We would have done a lot better if we had passed this law, considering the basic norms, when we discussed a law that really concerns all employees here, but we're not doing it. There was an approach in the referendum: Billboards were written in the Constitutional vote, and it was said: "Now, without meeting, the contract is returned." The Minister says in his statement yesterday, on the previous day: "We can't possibly give the right to strike according to this Constitution. The Constitution must be corrected first. We have always expressed our objection that it will not be a collective contract, that it will be a similar meeting when we name the corrections at the time. For him, we made it very clear that it did not give public employees any rights, that they were not treated in accordance with international contracts. Now, both our commissioner and our Minister have given examples of many countries here, they said: "Looking at these countries, they have no right to collective contracts around here. What happened was approved in the last review, one by the minister's approval, and the other by the legislature's approval. So, once again, I would like to suggest that they read it again, both the 87th and the 151th contract, which we have signed, and the 151th Convention, which forever recognises the freedom to organize for public employees. Sir, the thing about this is that when you present unions here, you always present them as NGOs, you make them look like NGOs, and you pour them into them. Unions are democratic mass organizations, pressure groups, right-seeking organisations, not NGOs. Therefore, in Europe, in the 5th and 6th Articles of the European Social Condition, and in all the countries mentioned here, all of them have the right to strike at least, they have no obstacles in any country in front of the strike. They are able to exercise the right to strike, which is the most fundamental right to use these rights, much more than the minister's signing, the honorary signing, the legislature's approval. Here, a system is created with specific Turkish conditions, where such rights are never granted. Let's see, the unions are closing. The pensioners' union was indicted and closed by the AKP ruling and the Interior Minister, and they went to the ECHR. The farmers' union was closed, and they went to the ECHM. The youth union is being shut down, Judge-Sen is being shut down. Now, who's not being shut down in this country, who's being rewarded? If he is rewarded, if he gives plaques, the Retirement Society gives flowers, and he says that you did very well, and you did a very good raise, they are rewarded, but if anyone is out on the street, if they are critical, if he is fighting for rights, they are slapped. This is a picture of Turkey's democracy. Now, you're not going to be able to explain this law that's been raised, overgrown, hormonal, and its entire structure has been shaped according to Officer-Sen, internationally, Mr. Secretary. I'm telling you again, this law is against ILO's contracts. Again, again, you're making an arrangement against the 5th and 6th amendments of the European Social Condition. Now, KESK is a member of the European Unions Confederacy ETUC, a member of the European Unions Confederacy. The ETUC is a member of both confederations, but think about it, this organisation, the largest of Turkey's civil union, is not being taken into those organizations, international institutions. Why isn't he offended? He has applied over and over again, and he has applied for membership there, and he has not been accepted because this is a government-dependent, government-controlled, political-management union-controlled union-controlled unionism, which he does not identify with basic freedoms, he says, and for him his membership is not accepted. No matter how big you make it, double it, five times it, these organizations will find no response in Europe and internationally. I just got the numbers here. You have to give a Nobel Prize to those who make this law. On the one hand, two confederations with 626,580 members stand side by side, and against it, a 515,000-member confederation representation grabs four members, and another grabs three members. So the other two confederations will have three members. So you're saying justice, you don't have justice. A conscience? You have no conscience. We're saying, we're saying, you don't understand this at all, and you're ignoring it. For the sake of God, I propose that you be reasonable, be just, be merciful, and act in accordance with the terms of the contract which we have signed. I ask you to act in accordance with contracts number 87, 98, 151, and we have the right to change this law again from now on, and I say, let's go over it again, with respect, with love.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0048par0467	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. Third speaker for the groups, Mr. Sırrı Sakık, Müsh MP on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Mr. Sakık, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0049par0471	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all with respect and love. In fact, when this law was discussed -- and I said it yesterday -- Mr. Secretary made it clear that we have the right to strike while the Constitution exists -- we have a duty to design these laws according to this Constitution. Now, as a society, we are all opposed to this Constitution. We were in court today, where representatives of all four political parties were on trial on September 12th. The defence's lawyer there shakes this Constitution, saying: "This will not happen." The lawyers of those involved do the same, and as a society, we are the victims of this Constitution. We all went there today, on a journey of hope. I wonder what's going on. Laws have changed, the Constitution has changed, but a process of trial is under way. There we saw the traces of September 12th, all together, in their faces, in their bodies, that different parts of society had come on a journey towards hope. I've seen a lot of people there from the Republican People's Party, from the former countries, from the National Movement Party, from the BDP, from the ANAP, from all political parties, from the Republican People's Party, from the AK PARTY, but no one has any hope that we're really dealing with September 12th? If we really had a problem dealing with September 12th, not in a tiny courtroom, but in two September 12th generals, from the Council of Counsellor to the ministers, to the Prime Minister, to all actors of that period, if you could actually include them, you would really settle with September 12th and the Constitution of September 12th. But there's no such thing. You, on the one hand, say you're going to answer on September 12th, and on the other hand, you're resisting the Political Parties Act, the Election Law, the 10 per cent dam that September 12th donated to you, and you're leaving the entire life of Turkey to the words between the two lips of four political parties, the leader of four political parties, the actor, and you're talking about democracy. No one really believes that. If you're really going to settle the score, then this Parliament must immediately change the Law of Political Parties, Election Law, and 10 per cent dam that September 12th brought. And we're in the courtroom, no defendants. But we've all witnessed how the defendants were brought into the courtroom in cases like this all over the world. We saw how Mubarak was brought into the courtroom in Egypt very recently, and we saw how Pinochet was brought into the courtroom in a wheelchair, but in our country, especially when cases were opened, there was a place where the uniforms were sheltered, GATA; they immediately go to GATA, and no one touches GATA. Today, those defendants were again in GATA. In the past, from the Sledgehammer case, from Ergenekon (GATA) for a long time, they used it as a port. If the trial is truly to be dealt with, it must be brought to the court in a sacred cage, just as it is to be brought to the court in a similar way in the world, the Kenan universe and its friends must be brought in the same way. But that doesn't happen either. He's still retired from the presidency of the Kenan Universe, where he gets his salary. The council members are taking advantage of a congressman's rights as a whole. That's what Parliament should do. He doesn't do that. Look, when I was in court, we were on a journey to hope. When the Democratic Society Party was shut down in 2009, when the MPs of Mr. Turk and Tugluk were reduced, they went out to the street in Bulanık district of our Mush, and, Aman, don't shut down our parties, don't shut down our party, don't shut down the democratic grounds. People who said, "Don't shut down the Kurds." Shots were opened against the people who said, two people had lost their lives, 10 people were injured with guns. There was that trial there today at that courthouse. I got a call from a lawyer friend: If you can get out of there, 9. If you come to the High Penalty, we'll watch the trial together. But before we left, the lawyer friend called me, and said: "The man who killed those two... had stayed inside for three or four months. You know, this is the case that Mr. Turk and I were attacked in Samsun, which started from Mush, and went all the way to Samsun. He was taken here. In the first hearing, the two brothers and 10 people who killed those two were released in the first hearing, and today they were acquitted. And I'm telling you right now, there were two people killed, 10 people injured, and 50 people were taken into custody after that. He's in custody... Why are you nodding? If you do not know anything, then know nothing.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0050par0477	You know your place.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0049par0478	What is it, all of a sudden, when we're out, you're nodding all the time? Two people... look, what I'm telling you is documented; if you have a conscience, listen to me for a moment. And 50 people were arrested, each of them sentenced to 15 years and 10 years, a total of four hundred and fifty years. Look, the killers are being cleared, acquitted, but don't go out and do it, don't shut down our party. The people who said, "Be assured, they have been sentenced to four hundred and fifty years. Now, we live in a country like this. There's no law on one side of the region, no democracy, no human rights, an authoritarian regime, and there's no legal port where people can be sheltered. Here is our Ayhan Erkmen, Kars Dağpınar Mayor -- a lawyer, a literary writer, a poet -- who was tried today -- arrested, arrested only a few months ago -- and was sentenced to 15 years today. Now, what happens if you treat politicians like this on this democratic floor? I swear, I heard the Prime Minister today, so I'm sorry. I feel sorry for my country, for our future. So his decision was a war decision, and I didn't see a little hope for peace. So it may come down to this: "May your way be clear, may God be blessed. " We can say, "God bless you. " But none of us has the right to do so, and we have no right to say, "May war be good luck." We've been saying for months that the armed forces are preparing for war, but... but we're calling on Parliament to stop this war, while Parliament is supposed to try to make this country a country of law and peace... but unfortunately today, Mr. Prime Minister has made a statement to the mayors of the province... that, on behalf of my country, I feel sorry for our future, and that our country is in great danger. Now, please don't tell us and our friends that they're threatening us every once in a while. We're not threatening, we're making a situation assessment, we're feeling sorry for our country, and we're inviting Parliament and the political world to join us. No one has the right to go out and make war decisions. The ministers are sitting behind me. So there are ministers who are trying to design the present with the language of the past, but let's give them a look, they're no different from the ministers of the Chiller era in the 1990s. Those ministers look back and see that those policies have led this country into chaos, that they have committed the unsub's murder of 7,500 in this country, that 3500 villages have been burned, and Turkey's people have suffered a great loss. For him, we really don't want the language of the language of Chiller, which is the language of Mehmet Agar, which is the language of Demirel, the language of Wrestling. We want the language of law and peace. We really, really want to see the moves of peace here, not the war next semester. It falls to the Prime Minister, to all of you, to the Republican People's Party, to the National Movement Party, to the Peace and Democracy Party, to all of us. I wish you would take those responsibilities. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me say that war is good. Every war is a ruin, but I wish God to protect our country and our people from war. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0051par0489	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. On behalf of the groups, the last speaker is Adana MP Mehmet Şükrü Erdinç, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Mr. Erdinç, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0052par0493	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the second part of the Law Bill for Change in the Law on Public Officers Unions of 200 rows. I hereby salute your high council and our beloved nation. One of the basic rights and freedoms guaranteed through the Constitution is the right of people to establish and become a member of civil society. In the face of the difficulty of individuals seeking their rights as individuals, NGOs have made it easier for people to act collectively and seek their rights as a means of oppression. From the 1990s, public officials around the world have taken on a high trend in ensuring the legal and constitutional level of unionism. The 53rd article of our Constitution has been changed in 1995 and has been granted the right to form a union for public officials. The unionism of public officials in our country has been established on the legal ground by the Law of Public Officials No. 4688, and has opened the way for public officials to become members of the union and confederation to protect common economics, social, professional rights and benefits. The EC PARTY, which is deeply concerned about democratisation, sees labour unions and public unions as the main elements of democracy, as it strives to get our country to democratize quickly in every area. Honourable lawmakers have held collective talks each year in August of 2002, under Law 4688, between the public officials' unions and the Public Employers' Board. In these negotiations, almost all of our unions and confederations have demanded that the officers be granted collective agreements and strike rights and work on them first. The Constitutional amendment package, which has changed the 53rd and 128th amendments of our Constitution, has been granted the right to a collective contract with the support of 58 per cent of our people in the September 12, 2010 referendum. The Constitutional amendment, replaced by the acceptance of our citizens in the September 12, 2010 referendum, carried out draft draft work between our government and the representatives of the confederacy, in order to ensure the harmonisation of public officials' unions' legislation into the collective contract system. As a result of these studies, the draft draft of the bill was submitted to the Turkish Grand National Assembly, with the final draft of our Plan and Budget Commission, bringing very important regulations in favour of our officers and unions. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this bill that our officers look forward to, the most important arrangement is the right to a collective contract. In addition, a change in the public official's definition is extended to those who can become members of public officials' unions. In order to become a union founder, the condition for working as a public official has been lifted for two years, simplification of trade unions' enterprises. Unions are allowed to make provisions that will facilitate their functioning in their regulations. Unions and confederations are allowed to establish organs outside of what is stated in the law, and by the way they are specified in the charters, to be able to grant authority and duties to these bodies outside the general council. The law rules that 100 and more public officials work for their top executives and assistants and public institutions cannot become members of the union of private security personnel, expanding the scope of those taking advantage of the union rights. With the bill, trade union and confederations are also authorized to form international organisations, as well as the ability to join and withdraw international organisations. Unions are allowed to establish representations in cities and districts without branches, the union representative, whose number is 100 and more members in the province, and the representatives of the trade union, whose number is 50 and more members in the district, are granted four hours a week to conduct trade union activities. The bill allows trade union and confederations to build direct housing and health facilities in disaster areas, and in various conditions they can provide the same and cash assistance. With the bill, the scope of the collective contract is determined, and the union members are expected to receive a collective contract bonus. Other than that, there is no distinction between the union member and the non-unionist to benefit from the collective agreement. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to briefly mention the arrangements made in the second part of the bill we're discussing. Article 19 of the bill organises the sides of the collective contract and the signing authority. In the Plan and Budget Commission, the mandate for the delegations to participate in the collective contract talks has been revised. A delegation chaired by the People's Unions Committee as the chair of the most member confederation, a total of 15 members, one representative of the first three confederates with the most members, and one representative of the most members in each service branch, and one representative of the public officials' unions. The president of the Public Employer's Committee on behalf of the public behalf of the People's Employer's Committee is in charge of the chairman of the Unions of Public Officials Committee for the general part of the contract. The joint contract agenda of the bill is being organised by the 21st article and by whom, as well as the final number of collective contract talks, except this year, is scheduled to begin in August and end on the last day of August, including the decision of the People's Officials' Board of Judges. In Article 22 of the bill, the procedures for the social balance agreement are laid out in the local administrations. In addition to the bill, the Plan and Budget Commission allows our local governments to establish a social balance contract within three months of the completion of the collective contract process. The resolution procedures for incompatibility with Article 23 of the bill are being organised. In the event that collective contract talks are incompatible, it is expected that those who are authorized to sign the relevant chapters of the contract within three work days of signing the contract, as part of the agreement, under which agreements have been made and cannot be agreed upon, should the People's Officials be able to apply to the Referee Board for the parts where they are authorized to sign. Under the 24th article of the bill, the structure, work and meetings of the Public Officers Referee Board, which will consist of 11 people are organised. In line with the regulation of the Constitution, it is stated in the bill that the decisions of the Council of Public Officials' Referee are final and collective agreements. The 25th article of the bill states regulations that must be regulated according to the collective agreement system. Other provisions of the bill we are negotiating include amendments in accordance with the amendments brought in by the bill. Dear lawmakers are entitled to a collective contract with the support of our people in a referendum on September 12, 2010, where the rights to form a union have been removed from them in the past. On this occasion, I would like to thank the people who voted 58 per cent at the September 12th referendum, which allowed our public officials to get a collective contract, and ask that the bill that we're discussing be a blessing to our country, to our nation.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0053par0520	Thank you, Mr. Erdinç. The talks for the groups are complete. Now, on behalf of the individuals, Mr. Müslim Sarı, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Yellow.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0054par0525	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute everyone. I'd like to refresh our memory first. In 1988, when I was a high school student, Mr. Prime Minister Prosperity Party was the mayor of Istanbul. In that year, the stage ban was lifted, but 440 publications printed abroad were banned from entering the country. SHP MP Mehmet Ali Eren said there was a Kurdish problem in Turkey and the Kurds were under pressure, and there were incidents at the Turkish Grand National Assembly. In the same year, the Supreme Court ruled that a defendant would not be subjected to torture for a week by security guards to prevent his work and power. The book "How Do We Want a Democracy? " by Server Tanilli. Two thousand prisoners and convicts in Diyarbakır Military Prison had begun a hunger strike. Mehmet Ali Aybar and Aziz Nesin were sentenced to 15 years in prison for speaking only about Aziz Nesin. In the same year, the workers of the Alikaka refinery walked barefoot to protest the restrictions on the right to strike. Films were banned, but the Ministry of Culture declared 36 artists a state artist. Yasar Kemal said, "Whatever his name is, I will not accept any sequin given to me until our country becomes a democracy." While all this was happening, he was the predecessor of the Prime Minister AKP. You'll be studying well, which is still being carried out. Of course, I don't mean to be unfair, but you don't stop printed books from getting into the country, you're getting the books picked up before they're published. And you don't make decisions that the beating of the defendants can't be tortured, because you're in the squares, beating up your cops with your batons. You stopped making government artists because you locked up artists, writers and intellectuals. In those days workers were walking so that the right to strike could not be restricted, today workers, teachers, Alevis, Kurds, Turks, everyone walks. Again, at that time, laborers who were bored like lemons under social policies, whatever their thought and ideology were applied, the union movement, the organizational forces of the society, not only because of their duties, but because they were hurting themselves, as they are today. So, why did I bring 1988 to you? Do you know why I'm giving examples of this year? Because today was the year when a mindset that wanted to destroy organized society, to end union movements, actually played the role of underdog. When Mr. Prime Minister was President of the Province, it was my duty to believe that I would stand by the righteous and decisive struggle until the worker puts his shirt on and puts an end to persecution. It was a photograph of those years, as it was seen in this picture, the attack of the mint workers, July 1988, and Mr. Prime Minister was then a strike spokesman as the mayor of the province. But we do know that Mr. Prime Minister first and quickly took off his workman's shirt, and then he left his national opinion shirt because he read a poem that made him declare himself underdog. But I'd like to call him from here: let them not be sad, there are still millions of people who wear the working shirt that they take off, who engage in the struggle according to their beliefs. Mr. President, good lawmakers, today is a day of sincerity. You don't want freedom of organization and you don't want it to be used. With your bill, you allow a single confederation to form a collective contract with other confederates on behalf of public officials who are not members of any trade union and apply to the People's Officers Reference Board. Numbers show that this does not bring justice to the representation. We know you're not on the best of terms with justice, but today we owe it to you to do this task and say it again from this stand. In addition, under the amendment to Article 53 of the Constitution, collective contract provisions will be reflected to pensioners, but you have not given the bill any room for pensioners to form unions, join unions and participate in collective contract talks. We have voiced all our criticisms in the countervote. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm calling from here to AKP ranks: you have not made your own decision in any of Turkey's burning problems, you do business with instructions, you raise your hand and lower it. You've built an arithmetic violence in the House. You even use physical violence when it doesn't work out for you. You couldn't even condemn the violence of a congressman here for your fear. This issue is a matter of democracy, this issue is a matter of building the future with democracy. You don't have to be afraid. Look, Mr. President, in his time, he's been there for the underdog because of his belief, and I think you can be there for him. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0055par0535	Thank you, Mr. Yellow. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0056par0538	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I salute you all. The founder of the National Movement Party, the natural president, the late Alparslan Turkesh. Dear lawmakers, today we have finished the first part of this important bill, and we have begun the second part. First of all, I'd like to thank all my friends for taking the lead in chapter one. There have also been some pessimistic assessments, of course, made; Turkey is running towards the light, where our citizens have no worries, no worries, and I would like to say that there is no cause for concern for the fellow reviewers. Now, there's no way that we can ignore the opinion of any confederation, but we've listened to them for hours, but as a result, you're going to make an adjustment here, let's make a 100 percent agreement with all confederations. It's one thing that you're in the process of doing, and it's another thing that you can't achieve that agreement.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0057par0542	Mr. Secretary, your KESK...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0056par0543	You mean KESK. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0057par0544	...Have you considered one of the public's motions?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0056par0545	If you'll excuse me. The motion is different. Look, I'm just saying, it's the main thing. Now, for example, KESK says there's no need for a committee of judges.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0057par0547	He's right.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0056par0548	Yeah, well, you think it's true, because it's not right for us, so we didn't get into the law, that's the problem.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0057par0549	What's the need for a referee if one person decides?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0056par0550	Mr. Mevlüt, when you're in power, you remove the arbitration committee, but we believe there should be a panel of referees, so I'm trying to tell you the difference. It says: "There must be a contract of employment. There is no longer a contract of employment here, says KESK: on behalf of its own members. There are now 230-240 thousand members of KESK, 390-400 thousand members of the Public-Sen family, Officer-Sen has 5 15,000 members, every confederation has a collective contract on behalf of its own member. "
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0058par0552	It's the truth.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0056par0553	It's the truth. So we're telling you, look, in our conversations...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0058par0554	Mr. Secretary, there is no such distinction in the world.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0056par0555	If you'll excuse me. Yeah, there's only one employer, one budget. Isn't that right? There's only one employer, one budget. You say: "Everyone make their contracts in the workplace." No matter what number it comes to, and you'll say it's called health care. Is that possible? Now, this, of course, is about how many hands you have under the stone.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0059par0557	We have an ankle.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0056par0558	I mean, we're in power, we're in charge of 75 million. As public employees are very important, our workers are very important, pensioners are very important, all 75 million are very important. You need to use your possibilities very rationally, and you need to use your opportunities again in Turkey, facing employees, facing fixed incomes. Which we've given you over and over again -- we haven't crushed any of them into inflation -- and you know these numbers very well.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0059par0559	Including pensioners?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0056par0560	Dear friends, if you look at it the other way, democracy is a process -- we need to see this -- it's not a result. If you see democracy as a result, it's not true, it's a process, and the point in Turkey is there. Today, our friends are doing great evaluations, they're talking about the trial of September 12th, how many other perpetrators have been discovered. Well, it's not like we're taking it on our own as an AK PARTY in the process. This Parliament, together with its previous period, has contributed in some way, and Turkey continues to move in a positive distance in these areas. Now, my dear friends, we begin the second chapter. This law, no matter what we say, is about one-third of our staff costs budget, one-third and the most important duty of parliaments... in fact, we have the authority to determine the costs of employees or staff in this regard, the parliaments have the authority to determine the budget. Now, with this arrangement, we take this authority, and we give it in a form outside of Parliament, so we give employees, parties, the authority to set this fee. From now on, we will not be able to determine the salary of public officials, 2.5 million public officials, 1,800,000 pensioners in Parliament, nor will the minister, nor will the government, nor will be able to say, and this will be implemented at the table, at the collective contract table.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0060par0563	The Council of Ministers is setting it up.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0056par0564	Is this an ordinary development?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0060par0565	Mr. Secretary, the Council of Ministers is setting it up.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0056par0566	For him, I mean that democracy is a process, and I use it very carefully, and I want it to be perceived. Now, this law actually eliminates the division that governs and governs the most important aspect of the democratization of our personnel system. I also think that governance is important for one another to demonstrate its understanding of governance. Dear friends, in other words, public resources are entrusted to all of us, especially those who run the country. If we don't think it's right to use these resources as a privilege in the hands of those in charge of these resources, we need to support this law. Now, I'm going to say once again that it's not the use of these resources in the hands of the rulers, but it's a very important provision for the use of these resources on a table by its parties. The scope of the right to be organised by this law is expanded, the obstacles to the organisation process are removed, the procedures are facilitated by this law, with institutional administrative boards, consultation boards, city, county and business representatives, the concept of democratic governance is being brought, and if it were wanted, it could have been followed by such a way: we would have arranged in 4688, and there was a law of οm. But that's not our purpose. We have brought to you our understanding of this process, a radical arrangement in terms of the understanding that democracy is a process. This is a healthy development, and I'm going to make it very clear that it's the right development. Now, dear friends, all public personnel systems can't be independent of people's values and traditions, it's not because when we look at country practices, there's no one kind of system involved. So there's a pattern like this, and there's a system like this, and let's take it, let's apply it. There's no such thing as a pattern. I also want to express that we are dealing with an arrangement that is changing according to his country. A dear friend of ours has just expressed here: "Let there not be a delegation of kings." So now we... but here he comes, now, in England, he gives to the government's approval, and now he's at the mercy of the Ministry of Finance in France.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0061par0571	They all have the right to strike.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0056par0572	In Italy, the government also brought in an inadequate court of law, leaving it to the court's approval. So, what are we doing in Turkey? At the desk...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0062par0573	Mr. Secretary, let it be a strike.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0061par0574	Give the strike rights, leave it to whoever you want.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0056par0575	Well, the right to strike... you didn't seem to be in our conversation, I did.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0061par0576	I've been found.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0063par0577	I've been found.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0056par0578	See, one of the important, decisive factors in our work in making this legal arrangement was the Constitution. In the Constitution, there is a ban on strike and a collective contract...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0064par0579	There is no obstruction in the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0065par0580	There is no strike ban in the Constitution. Article 90 of the Constitution...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0056par0581	...the scope of the collective contract is only financial and social rights in the Constitution. I wish that if we were all together in the Constitutional Amendment, if we had talked our way out of this, and made these arrangements together, we could consider these arrangements for 550 lawmakers together in a more comprehensive way today.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0065par0582	You didn't let him.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0056par0583	But I hope that the amendment of the Constitution, which will be made during the next term, will go into effect in a way that will eliminate these negative experiences of the past. There are a lot of things to say, but public officials are looking forward to this law. It's an important arrangement, an important step, an important reform. I wish all public servants and pensioners well. And I'd like to thank all the friends who contributed in advance, and I'd like to pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0066par0586	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, on behalf of the individuals, the last speaker is Mr. Mustafa Baloglu, the MP of Iconium. Mr. Baloglu, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0067par0590	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf over the second chapter of the Law on the Amendment to the Unions of Public Officials Act. I salute your committee. This bill, which we discussed, has been drafted in order to address the failing aspects of the Union of Public Officials Act 4688. If we have to open in detail, first in 1995, then in 2010, the 53rd article of the Constitution was changed, and then in addition to the right to form a union, civil servants and other public servants were granted collective contracts. However, the scope of the collective contract, exceptions, collective agreements, the way the collective contract was made, the way and the implementation of the collective contract, the reflection of collective contract provisions to pensions, the representation of the Public Officers Referee Board, the working procedure and its basics, and the drafting of this bill is based on a law. When we return to the past, we see that Law 4688 was put into effect in 2001 to regulate the union rights of public officials. According to this law, trade unions can be formed in 11 service units, and public officials can be a member of a trade union in the service of the institution they work for, and at least five unions can form a confederation. The text, which began on August 15th each year at the end of mass talks, is first presented to the Council of Ministers and then comes to parliament as a bill. When we look at the 2011 numerical data on the subject, the general unionisation rate in the public has reached 63.75 per cent. The number of members of the union has reached 1,195, 102, while the total number of unions has reached 97. In 2002-2011, the number of members of public unions increased by 545,000. This data is not a coincidence. The EC PARTY has strived today to clear the way for trade unions, including the International Labour Organization and the European Union norms, absorbing democracy, opening the way for trade unions and embracing the dynamics of working life. We cleanse political and personal expectations of such matters and set the future of working life and Turkey as our priority. As for the innovations brought in by the public officials' unions and the collective contract bill, the right to organise the bill has been expanded, and the establishment and operating procedures of trade unions have been facilitated. For example, documents requested during the union and confederations have been reduced, the maximum three-year deadline for meeting the general council has been extended to four years, the requirement for running and completing the trial period to become a union member has been lifted. The two-year requirement for service is also lifted to become a union founder. Another important arrangement is that unions and confederations can form an international organisation. The bill also made arrangements in line with the idea of participating management. The High Executive Board has been removed, and the Public Staff Advisory Board has been formed, which deals with public personnel and provides consultation on general-quality issues as an application for participation in a government. In addition, the business union diplomatic system has been redesigned and the number of representatives has been reduced and the representation has been strengthened. Mr. President, with this bill, the scope and level of the collective contract has been established, whether or not all public officials are union members or not. Only union officials will benefit from the collective contract bonus. The People's Unions Committee will consist of 15 members -- one of the three confederates with the most members -- and one of the most members in each service branch. Thus, a high proportional representation is foreseen at both the general level and the service branch level. As for pensioners in the collective agreement system, the increase in public officials' monthly and salaries will also be reflected in public officials' pensions. One of the items I've been promised in the second section is the structure of the Public Officers Referee Board. Dear lawmakers, unions are a key tool for social reconciliation. The union is a means of socialization, and where this socialization does not take place is open to social violence. Union activities are essential to democracy. In comparison to Law 4688, I ask that this bill, which has been brought with many innovations and regulations, be good to all public officials, and I salute your great delegation.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0068par0604	Thank you, Mr. Baloglu. Congressmans, we will now proceed with a question-answer procedure on the second chapter for 15 minutes. I'll make a promise to our friends who are in the system. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0069par0608	Mr. President, thank you. May God have mercy on the late Turk. My question is, this law is 35 articles. The main backbone of the law is public servants, collective contract, negotiation, unionization. In 2001, at the time of the partnership of the National Movement Party in 2000, public officials met this union law. When I read this law, it's a repetitive, so it's updating. And because of this upgrade, a draft was prepared for a union to step up. What good is that to public servants? Two: The presidential presentations are constantly spoken this way in the morning, but in the last ten days in this country, natural gas, diesel, tube, electricity has increased by 19 percent. Isn't it true that the presentations of the presidency are based on these raises?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0070par0612	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0071par0614	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, on a previous question, you have stated that a study has been launched under the Prime Minister's orders. What's the final point in the status of the staff working as technical contractors in the municipal and municipal private administration? Secondly, is there any work being done by your Ministry on improving the financial and autonomy rights of private security and subcontractors? If it's being done, where's the study at and what's its content? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0072par0618	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Onur...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0073par0620	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, assuming that you are responsible for the job guarantees of union workers in our country's private sector or public sector or non-unionless workers, these two journalists are being held captive in Syria recently; one is Adam Ozkose, one is Hamit Coskun. As a member of the government, is there a study of bringing our friends back to our country? I want to know what's the latest. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0074par0623	Thank you, Mr. Onur. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0075par0625	Thank you, Mr. President. There are high school-level business schools where our mentally challenged children are trained. It's very limited to find jobs for our children who have developed the ability to get into these schools. This has a negative effect on our children's morale. What do you intend to do in order to improve the physical environment, especially in order to get our raised children to work in public, with better and more qualified education? For those of our children who are unable to get a job in the private sector, there must be a public job and an opportunity to breathe in their families. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0076par0628	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0077par0630	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, do you find that contrary to the ILO decisions and the essentials of union life are correct in the collective agreement without strikes? Again, how will a collective agreement without a collective agreement in this bill balance the workforce? Isn't this bill, which exposes unionism and collective agreements only on the financial grounds, endangering other trade union achievements? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0078par0633	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0079par0635	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there's no need to worry. You said, "There's no need to worry." But the average four workers die every day in our country. In the explosion at a sub-level office in Davutpaşa, what happened at Tuzla Shipyard, which took place in Zonguldak. The mining accident, which the Minister said at the time, the Minister, died well. Aren't you worried about the workers who died two days ago, who died in the vault of the van in İstanbul, the women workers who died in the dam that exploded in Adana, the workers who died in the construction site of Esenyurt, and the workers who lost their lives two days ago? When do you plan to take the necessary precautions on this matter? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0080par0638	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0081par0640	Mr. Minister, even though we and the Road-Business Union were strongly opposed last year, 150 percent of the workers in the Malatian Special Administration were retired under pressure and 118 workers were transferred to other cities. According to a report by the City General Assembly Control Commission yesterday, personnel have been employed by service because the forced transport workers are qualified and the qualified workers are not replaced. Therefore, the Special Administration is being damaged. What logic does he have that he's disbanding qualified workers and taking out services from outside and subcontractorizing? Malatya is being damaged because of these practices, and the work that needs to be done is not done on time. For example, this year, Malatya has failed in the fight against snow, and we still have village roads that haven't opened. Again, according to this report, all major bids made by the State Special Administration are made from other provinces. I wonder if Malatya is being punished. What's the logic of this?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0080par0641	Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0082par0642	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, again, what is the number of subcontractors working in public institutions? How many of them are unionists? Do you believe that a collective contract without strikes can be fair? Are you planning on bringing in a collective contract union rights? Do you intend to correct the wage inequality of victims 4/C, the pay injustice? ▪ We will pay equal wages for equal work. Because you say so. Again, while the Home Secretary is here, I'd like to repeat one question: Republican People's Party MPs are demanding that the perpetrators be found because of the markings made on the doors and walls in Adıyaman, Gaziantep, İzmir, and Erzincan. Since when is looking for criminals, making demands for them to be found, stirring things up? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0083par0648	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0084par0649	Thank you, sir. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to know if after this collective agreement has been signed or given a final verdict by the High Referee's Board, the matter of the implementation of the collective contract can be filed? If it opens, where does it open? After this case is filed, what law, which law, may it be, about those who do not comply? Is there a verdict here? Because, you know, the collective contract of employment law has the right to prosecute workers, is that a right for officers? That's what I want to know.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0083par0651	Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0085par0652	Mr. Secretary, we're hungry; we're old, we're hungry. A cure? People commit suicide, start committing suicide, it's your job to find a solution without disrupting the retirement system. It's a temporary solution for three years for those who hang out at age, and three years later, the system's back on its own. Mr. Secretary, we're hungry, we're thirsty, our children are hungry, we're all hungry.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0083par0653	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0086par0655	Thank you, Mr. President. This is the Law on Public Servants' Unions, which is Act 4688, a legal provision issued during the DSP-MHP-ANAP administration, as our friend has expressed. There are some very important changes going on here, and I've just expressed them on the stand in my speech. This law draws the structure of the public officials' union from an understanding of negotiation to an understanding of contract, and as I put it on the stand, it brings important arrangements, and I can't get into them in detail because we don't have time. Certainly, there's no comparison to the arrangement with its current state. And I'm saying that because I've expressed that the confederacy with the most members is based, it's an important criterion, and it's not right to take it one day at a time. When it comes to law enforcement, it is unknown to all of us who will have the most members, what they will be in the coming years, what they will be in the years. So you're going to get a criteria, and the criteria are to connect this contract with the confederation, which has the most members, and to give him the right to appeal again. Sir, let's give the right to appeal to other confederations. There's no ground to the agreement. You sign on one side, it breaks down on the other. Then why did you sign it? You are faced with a situation like this, or we are making a law, not a one-day political approach. We are aware of the seriousness of it. Now, the other issue is a study of contractors in municipalities, and we've been told from social sides. It was said that during the election that our Prime Minister had made such a promise -- although I haven't found the source of that promise yet -- when we presented it to Mr. Prime Minister in this framework, our Prime Minister told us to do a study, but twice I couldn't join the Council of Ministers because of the law, and I couldn't present it to them. Since I have no opportunity to submit the work we're doing to the Council of Ministers, I'm unable to give an exact answer at this time, but we'll bring it to them as soon as possible. 17,800 people, as you put it, I'd like to say that our Prime Minister said this, and if he did, that promise will be fulfilled. We're making arrangements for subcontractors right now, we're still negotiating with the parties, and we're doing an arrangement that involves the exploitation of labor here, overtime, furlough issues, and problems with severance. Maybe it's about making different contracts in public, public service purchases, these issues are on our agenda right now. Of course, dear friends, within the framework of job security, the legal arrangement for occupational health care has come from the Council of Ministers to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the coming weeks, we'll probably all see each other at the commissions, and it's important because it's a separate law. In Turkey, the lack of a future occupational health safety law during a period when industry develops to this degree is one thing, we express, and in order for this period to be passed, we, the Ministry, have moved our preparations to Parliament, and if it is supported here, we will legislate it. We have initiatives with journalists in Syria -- Mr. Prime Minister expressed it yesterday -- in the government. Friends, the scope of the collective contract contains a scope we can sum up: Kat number, indicators, monthly and wages, raises and compensations, bonuses, overtime fees, overtime, birth, death and family benefits, food, clothing benefits, and other financial and social rights. In other words, the decision of the Referee Committee is final, and its decision will be carried out with certainty. Guys, collective contract justice is a process. So this law is a 100 per cent direct law, and there is no better claim than that. But 4688 has come from a public meeting to a collective agreement, and, as I have just stated, there will now be a monthly increase of 2,500,000 public employees and 1,800,000 pensioners within the scope of their monthly increases, wages and the scope of the previous session. These are very important advances, but regulations on these issues may also be more different in the coming process. I'd like to say that we've made a healthy and just arrangement for today. Equal pay for equal work, or rather, equal title, we've put in place the fee, which is now in effect. Fortunately, there is no difference between the public and the chiefs, between the heads of the apartments, among the experts, between the vice principals and the likes of them.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0087par0667	There is, there is!
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0086par0668	Regarding workers in private administrations, these have changed places within the norm staff, which have been transferred to other institutions. I'd like to state that the arrangement here is within the norm's framework. Also, the disabled, disabled staff audition will take place on April 29th. According to this test, 3,512 personnel will be appointed. Another issue is: The number of personnel from 4/C is 27.122. As you know, they work for 11 months. They have twenty-two days off a year, and they can be a member of the unions. Besides, there are 30 days of sick leave. In 2010, ten months of work was extended to 11 months. In 2010, again, at 21.3%, 18.2%, the wages of the 4/C have increased. I'd like to state here that the net fee for students with a higher education degree in 4/C is $1,085, 991 TL for high school graduates, and 895 TL for elementary school graduates. We've talked a lot about people who hang out a lot. Again... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I can't answer because there's not enough time.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0088par0674	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0089par0675	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0088par0676	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0089par0677	I made a statement. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to know that the collective contract has been signed, signed, but the comment on implementing the collective contract has been a problem with the application. I want to know if he's gonna be able to press charges on this, so the collective contract... because it's in the collective contract of employment, there's this comment case. Does he have the right to sue public officials like this?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0090par0678	No, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0088par0679	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0089par0680	No, that's when there's no such thing as a collective contract. It's on paper, it's next week!
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0090par0681	There is such a provision in the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0089par0682	That's not true! You didn't, so what?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit01spe0091par0683	Thank you. Friends, negotiations on the second part of the bill are complete. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0091par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 90th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of Iğdır MP Pervin Buldan and his friends' motion on Article 23 of the Law Bill of 200 rows was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-vote the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Now, I'm going to read Mr. Sugar and his friends' motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the 23rd Amendment to the Public Officials Union Law. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. 02.04.2012 Mehmet Candy (Gaziantep) and his friends Article 33 of the Law No. 23-4688 has been changed as follows. Article 33-In case the general and service arm cannot be signed in collective contract talks, the meeting of the Public Employer's Committee and the Council of Public Officers' Unions shall be held on issues signed and uncompromising. This report is submitted to the referendum by the confederations that form the delegation of public officials, with crates of referendums to be held in their workplaces within three working days. As a result of the referendum, if the public employer's delegation's proposals are accepted, the report will be renegotiated between the parties and the collective agreement will be signed. As a result of the referendum, each confederacy has the right to go on separate strikes if the public employer's delegation does not accept the issues it offers. In the event that the collective contract talks result in in incontrovertibleness and the meeting report cannot be held, the agency, which maintains its service to the secretary, makes it clear that the talks have resulted in uncompromising agreement. If the issue proposed by the public employer's delegation is not accepted after the meeting was signed or the meeting was determined by a declaration of uncompromising agreements, the confederations could apply for a strike. While the strike continues, the People's Officers do not apply to the Referee Board. In the event of the strike, the parties can resume talks at the collective agreement table at the invitation of the Public Employer's delegation. In this case, the People's Officials cannot apply to the Referee Board until the re-enactment meeting is over. The power to apply to the Public Officers Referee Board belongs to the Public Employer Chairman on behalf of his public employer, and to the public officials on behalf of the general public officials, to each confederacy of the Unions Committee, and to the Public Officers Unions, whose service arm is included in the collective contract talks. The issues in this article are organised in the regulation." Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0092par0021	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0091par0022	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0093par0023	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0094par0024	Mr. Aykan Erdemir will speak, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0091par0025	Mr. Aykan Erdemir. Here you go, Mr. Erdemir.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0095par0028	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 23rd Amendment to the Law on Public Officials Unions, 200 rows. I salute our fellow citizens who are watching us on the Supreme Assembly and the Internet screens. Before I begin my remarks, I would like to commemorate eight of our MPs, who were elected MPs by the people's votes in the June 12th election, but today have been awarded the right to represent the will of the people at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with unlawful practices of the guardian mentality. Congressmans, I'm not only here today as MP; I'm here as a former member of Education-Sen, the union of free education workers, who you stick out, pepper sprayed, wet in the cold in winter. With your growing persecution, I hope I can announce the righteous trial of the public workers you're trying to silence every day from the council bench. I'm in the hope that I can hear it because I know that your habit of reducing the voice, the voice of the people, the voice of right, the voice of labor, with algebra and violence, goes on without recognition of the immunity of the Assembly. When you failed to silence the opposition with the coup d'état, you were desperate to get your violent deputies to attack the bench. You're wrong to silence the Republican People's Party with brute force, just like the MP of Kuva, who once thought he could silence the patriots with brute force. Speaking of cruel force, I will not pass on to your deputy Mehmet Metiner, who is notoriously violent in speech and action. Although today we don't see any of his people among us, and we heard that you had given him another change of air and sent him to Umrea.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0096par0032	Don't provoke me!
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0095par0033	We hope that during his visit to Umre, he can develop control of anger and violence and finally find the cure he seeks. Dear lawmakers, the European Commission's 2011 Progress Report has criticised the Unional Rights in Turkey for failing to meet the European Union standards and ILO contracts. Again, in the 100th Work Conference of the International Labour Organization ILO (ILO), the Republic of Turkey has been blacklisted along with countries such as Swaziland and Zimbabwe in respect of the ILO contracts, firing and pressure against trade unionists. Your unionism, as you call it, has also turned yellow. Your yellow unionism has failed our country once again, its reputation has been ruined. You took this bill of law into the General Assembly's agenda, without transferring it to the EU Integration Commission in Parliament, without harmonizing it with the European Social Condition, ILO contracts, and with the EU acquish, from the representatives of the public, from the workers' representatives, from the public conscience. I don't think you'll understand, but I'd like to give you one last pass on the right and the law. The European Convention on Human Rights, the European Social Condition, the International Labour Organization contracts, the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of the United Nations, the International Convention on Personal and Political Rights and European Court of Human Rights, as well as the collective contract of public officials, as well as collective action and strike. Yeah, he's got a right to strike. Jonah says: "The path is the right one, the eye is the right one. I don't know if you can see the right one, the right one, but come back from this yellow union law as soon as possible. If you insist on not returning from your mistake, then listen to Ozan Hassan Hussein, who is honeying the suffering of our people: And if you didn't tell those who broke stones,/ if you left them without a morning, the gardeners,/ If you're in the holiday navy/Hayram, your friends with joy,/ if you haven't heard the pain of your friends/ friends/ if you haven't walked through the door, you don't have the work, you don't have the job, you don't have the job, you don't have the job, you don't have the job, you don't have the job, you don't have the job, you don't have the job, you don't have the flag, you don't have the flag, you don't have the banner, you don't have the day, you don't have the day, you don't have the day, you don't have the day, you don't have the day, you don't have the day, you don't have the holiday, you don't have the day, you don't have the day, you don't have the day, you don't have the day, you don't have the day, you don't have the holiday, you don't have the day, you don't have the day, you don't have the day, you don't have the holiday, you don't have the day, you don't have the day, you don't have the day, you don't have the day of day of day of day of the day of day of day of day of day of day of day of day of day of day of day of day of day, you don't have the day of day of day of the day of day of day of day, you don't have the day of day of day of day of day of day, you don't have the day of day of day of day of day of day, you don't have the day, you don't have the day of life of the day, you don't have the day, you don't have the day you don't have the day you don't have the day you don't have the day of day of day of day of day of Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0097par0041	I submit to your votes, Mr. Erdemir and his friends' motion that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current Public Officials' Unions Act is 23. Law number 4688 replaced with Article 33. Article 1 of the article. And 3. We offer and propose that their jokes be changed in the following way. Mehmet Shandır (Mersin) and his friends If a collective agreement cannot be signed at the end of the general collective contract process, the meeting report containing issues agreed on and uncompromising issues will be signed between the Public Employer Committee and the Public Officers Committee and the relevant union representative and the public employer's delegation for the service of the meeting report. If a majority of votes are signed in the collective contract talks, the other confederations may apply to the Council of Public Officials' References, as long as no representative does not sign the collective contract text. If the collective agreement is not signed, the People's Officials' Unions can apply to the Board of Referee for each Confederacy. If the collective contract is signed by two confederates, the other confederation has no right to appeal to the Public Officers Reference Board. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0098par0049	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0097par0050	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0099par0051	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0100par0052	Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı will speak.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0097par0053	Mustafa Kalaycı, our Konya MP. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0101par0056	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First, I want to talk about the AKP Group's motion on Article 32. Our Minister of Labour is coming and going, but Mr. Secretary, you should step in. Is your goal to become a single unionist in public? What kind of democratic understanding would it take to give officers a collective contract bonus? It's injustice, it's discrimination, it's an arrangement that will end the union competition. Please withdraw this motion. Even the mind of the coup d'etat wouldn't make such an antidemocratic arrangement. Dear lawmakers, collective contracts are a legal text that affects all public officials with unions, without unions. Therefore, it is contrary to the logic and democratic principles of collective negotiation talks to be given the authority to make binding decisions on behalf of all public officials, although not representing the majority of public officials but having more members than any other confederation. The important thing to focus on here is that the collective agreement, no matter what level, will connect all public employees. According to the bill, the authority to make a collective contract on public officials who belong to a union is transferred to another union, which cannot be assessed within the limits of freedom of organisation or respect for the rights of one's choice. The bill, however, does not even grant the right to appeal to the People's Officials Referee Board for trade unions and confederations that have been stripped of the right to ratify a collective contract. As the National Movement Party, we propose a reasonable and democratic way. In the event of the signing of a collective agreement with the majority of votes in our proposal, no representatives will be granted the right to appeal to the Public Officers Referee Board for confederations that have not signed. In the event that the collective agreement is signed by the two federations, the other federation will not be granted this application. In the current form of this bill, all authority is given to the union, which is the most member of the collective contract process, while other unions are completely defunctioning and showing off, the union pluralism is ignored. Clearly, such an arrangement violates international contracts. This bill contains more backward provisions than the existing law, and even the union and collective contract laws in the period of the coup have more fair and democratic provisions than this bill. We're heading towards a single union regime with no strikes in public. Not a collective agreement with this bill, but with a trade union that has been tasked with promoting and preparing the social infrastructure of the government, there will be a collective pass in the form of al-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah. Even if there is any application under the government's guardianship, whatever the government has said will be accepted. Thus, in the coming days, a collective contract game will be played, ultimately what the government says. Dear lawmakers, the fact that public officials do not have the right to strike is fundamentally against international contracts. Actually, union rights can't be divided. There's no strike-offs, no collective agreements, no union rights. Mr. Minister, is there a collective agreement without a debt? If that is your Constitution, then your legislation is under the Constitution. He answered. In fact, our Constitution does not have a strike ban. According to international contracts on Turkey's approved working life, especially the International Labour Organization contracts, public officials have the right to strike, as do other employees. The strike rights can only be limited to a small group of government officials. A strike ban covering all officers is against international contracts. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0102par0064	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Kalayci and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 23 is accepted. There are three motions on the 24th article, I'm having it read...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0103par0068	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0102par0069	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0103par0070	Sir, the motions for every substance have been distributed to groups. It's not his turn yet, but there's a motion for Article 32. I'd like to present this motion with the attention of you and the General Assembly, so that we can have a better discussion when the matter comes, when the motion comes. This motion envisions a change in Article 32 of the bill. According to this, members of the trade union, which has the most members of public officials' unions and is authorized to form collective contracts, compared to other unions, will all be paid a collective contract bonus of 30 per cent. This is clearly intended to look out for a union, a confederation.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0104par0072	It's a violation of the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0103par0073	In this way, it is a clear contradiction to the principle of equality in the 10th article of the Constitution. You may have distributed it, but due to the violation of the Constitution's 10th Amendment, this motion must not be processed, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0105par0074	Thank you, it's contained. I'll see you when it's time. I now read the motions on Article 24: 24 of the current bill. In the matter of the document, we demand that the statement be removed from the text of the law. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the Law on the Amendment to the Law on Public Servants Unions is 24. Law number 4688 replaced by Article 34. We propose that the clause (d) be changed in the following way, (a) and (e) be removed from the text of matter. D) The Supreme Court 9th, which will be determined by the president of the Public Employment Committee and two professors and the chairman of the Public Officers Referee Board of the Public Employees Committee, and two professors from each Confederacy Committee, each of which will be determined by the members of the Union of Public Officials' Unions Committee, on the condition that they carry the least academic title of the university's public administration, business law, public finance, working economy, economics and business sciences. Head of the Legal Office." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and change the 24th Amendment to the Law on Public Servants' Unions, in the following way. "Article 34 of Article 24-4688 has been changed as follows. Article 34- If the People's Officials are the elders of the Referee Board and the parties agree on the board's decisions, the decisions will be binding. The Council of Public Officers Referee is a member of the Committee of Public Officials and the Public Employer's Committee, headed by one of the Supreme Court's offices to handle business cases. The implementation of this clause is regulated by regulations." Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion of Mr. Buldan and his friends?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0106par0089	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0105par0090	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0107par0091	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0105par0092	Mr. Buldan...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0108par0093	Motive...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0105par0094	I'm reading the reason: As part of the collective contract and strike rights, the decision of the state's arbitration board has only been binding on the parties' agreement. In the proposed arrangement of the government bill, the public officials' panel of arbitrations will never be neutral. He will have to make decisions under the government's direction and under the pressure of budget balances. It was intended to be fixed by change. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Buldan and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the Law on the Amendment to the Law on Public Servants Unions is 24. Law number 4688 replaced by Article 34. We propose that the clause (d) be changed in the following way, (a) and (e) be removed from the text of matter. Mehmet Shandır (Mersin) and his friends D) The Supreme Court 9th, which will be determined by the president of the Public Employment Committee and two professors and the chairman of the Public Officers Referee Board of the Public Employees Committee, and two professors from each Confederacy Committee, each of which will be determined by the members of the Union of Public Officials' Unions Committee, on the condition that they carry the least academic title of the university's public administration, business law, public finance, working economy, economics and business sciences. Head of the Legal Office." Do you agree with the motion read, Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0109par0104	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0105par0105	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0110par0106	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0105par0107	Mr. Nevzat, our MP in Isparta, won't be afraid. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0111par0110	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. According to the officer, the pensioner, the widow, the orphan, the worker's government, the strange guru's concern for the problem with the troubled one, the AKP government has not paid the difference in wages and wages of these parts, which are the sole source of income for four months. These differences, which may not have meant much to you, gave you a chance to breathe, a little breath, for narrow-income people who counted days by the end of the month. When you're already giving people a little raise, you act like you're donating water under the bridge, like you're doing them a favor. At least one drop, one drop, and pay for that increase in time. Unfortunately, the incompetence no government has shown has been granted to the AKP government, unable to handle such a simplistic account, so to speak, the issue of the masses has been brought to a standstill. The government is a crow, and a hawk is a king. In fact, the government, which has not moved to make the difference in inflation, has been able to reflect its rise in oil prices three times a month, electricity and gas every six months, as an excuse for the surge in oil prices due to Iran and Syria in international markets. On the other hand, why are these prices rising in international markets, which are increasingly accelerant in Iran and Syria's crises? Dear lawmakers, 9.33 per cent of electricity has been increased, not much, but 9.5 per cent had been raised six months ago, which is 19 per cent when we add it up. Where are your single-digit inflation calculations? Who are you kidding? This month's inflation is down to 9 percent, and next month it's 8.5%, so who are you kidding? The most basic needs are 19 percent electricity, 18.5% natural gas. Sadly, the hand of a parent who tried to warm his home, his children remained on his side. Our farmers have begun to ponder how to pay their watering fees. The hikes in the oil have exceeded the limits of compassion and conscience. Our pensioners, officers and workers, who already bought a cup and a cup of fuel in their vehicle, are at a loss. That's why even the embodiment of our religion has gone beyond the scope of our people's human responsibilities. It's a raise, even if you try to put it in a pretty cover like that, it's persecution, precious lawmakers, to look after the child support of a citizen, to share in the sweat of a citizen, to reach out to a few pennies in your pocket. Now, you show up because we're giving the citizens inflation differences. It's too inadequate and too late. They're too heavy to handle. What do you call it, fellas? What do you call a spoon and a scoop? It's not like I'm going to give it back. Nothing can be expected of the AKP, the AKP, who tried to rule the country through persecution, and the AKP, who made the rich richer poor poor poor poor poorer, and the AKP, who made the nation's children their outside focus of power friends. That's what they know about running the country and the economy. Give me a raise as long as you're stuck, double or triple the bill you billed the citizen as you get stuck. Your Honor, you're going to pay the expenses, and you're going to make sure that this bill doesn't reflect on the nation's people. That's what I know about good management. You don't have to be allamei jihan to do the other one. Just say you got a raise, that's all. God grants mercy and mercy to the government, and I also demand that he take back the raises, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0112par0117	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Mr. Korkmaz and I submit the motion of your friends to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. 24 of the current bill. In the matter of the document, we demand that the statement be removed from the text of the law. Ali Serindağ (Gaziantep) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0113par0124	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0112par0125	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0114par0126	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0112par0127	Mr. Serindağ, please.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0115par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Just now, by 7:00 p.m., the literature was being broadcast on television, and the transport was being delivered. All of our people were enjoying the talks here. After 7:00 p.m., the television screens went dark. My dear friends, I'm very sorry about this, and it's touching my blood. Turkey's Grand National Assembly can declare war, change the constitution, make the law, but not protocol with the TRT. I'm speaking to the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: Turkey should now seize this situation, renew protocol with the TRT. If new protocols are needed, new protocols must be followed by all our citizens in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In fact, it's not only restricting the rights of lawmakers, it's restricting our citizens' right to control. Now, I'm going to tell you from a local newspaper in Gaziantep, a column by a columnist: doesn't he have the right to be informed of what the chiefs are doing? Every person who lives on this land has the right to hear what both power and opposition say and watch group meetings. They had that right before. For some reason, TRT 3 ended this broadcast. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey then cut its broadcasts at 7:00 p.m. Congressmans, if your circumstances pass, can you arrange for all party group meetings and parliamentary meetings to be released from the TRT, as they used to be? Shouldn't the nobles also be aware of what their Regents say, what they do? Yes, my dear friends, I told you from a column in the local newspaper. Our citizens want this, our citizens want to see what their own deputies do. But what are we doing? We're darkening the screen at 7:00. Now, what are we discussing here, my dear friends? We're talking about the Bill of the Law on Change in the Unions of Public Servants. What happens if we make a law and we don't? If it doesn't work out, you can make all the laws you want. There is no law in our constitution that prohibits the right of officers to strike, and everyone sees it, but you don't. What happens if we make a law and we don't? Now, what does the Prime Minister say about teachers who want to take action in Ankara when the 4+4+4 law is being discussed? Our Prime Minister says that the group of teachers wanted Ankara to become a battlefield for three days. Now, to all of you's conscience, I don't see that as being the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey must accept that everyone is Prime Minister and speak accordingly. The word that comes out of the heart goes up to the heart, and the word that comes out of the tongue can't even reach the ear. My dear friends, Mr. Prime Minister has to pay attention to what he says because we have no right to insult teachers, to despise a part of society, and we have no right to exclude them. And we want to say, we want the Prime Minister, everyone, 74 million, but before that, the job first falls to the Prime Minister. And there's one thing the Prime Minister keeps saying. He says that defending uninterrupted education is to defend February 28th. The mercy of the hand is half the religion. Now, my dear friends, we've said this several times, we've said this several times, eight years of mandatory education has already been on Turkey's agenda, on Turkey's agenda. Ta, Mr. Hasan Celal is on the agenda even during the Ministry of Beauty. Look, I'm reading some of the decisions made by the National Education Service, which was collected during the Ministry of Mr. Nice, some of them. See what it says: the transition to eight years of mandatory education in a program and system integrity... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This will be provided until the end of the Golden Five Year Development Plan, he says. The integration of existing schools with primary education.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0116par0147	Mr. Serindağ, your time is up, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0115par0148	There is no Prosperity, there is no Prosperity, not yet. In 1996, I believe, eight years of uninterrupted mandatory education is being decided. In a 1996 speech, the National Minister of Education of...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0117par0149	Mr. President, is there a new procedure?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0116par0150	Mr. Serindağ, please.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0115par0151	...says there's a bill for eight years of mandatory training. Let's give it up and tell our people the truth. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0116par0154	I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Serindağ and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 24th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 25 that I'm reading: This is the 25th draft of the current 200 rows of legislation. The article (d) shall be replaced by the number of members of the Syndicate (e.g. the number of members of the Syndicates). Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0118par0160	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0116par0161	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0119par0162	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0116par0163	Mr. Candan Yüceer, Tekirdağ MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0120par0166	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, one of the most popular statements by the AKP (AKP) who sang democratic songs in the squares during the September 12, 2010 referendum was that the right to a collective contract would be granted to all public employees. In fact, the government, which did not want to give the civil servant a collective contract, had to put it on the agenda in order to get the public's support at the referendum, in order to get it out of the referendum. Following the referendum, laws concerning the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors and the judiciary were quickly implemented, while the law concerning the collective contract for nearly 18 months was not brought to the General Assembly, and was not asked to be brought in. Here's the law that was passed at the end of a year and a half unintended, completely out of focus and commitments in the appearance of a tree that has been completely pruned. Although the parties of the bill discussed many issues and agreed on by the three counseling board, the government came up with such a bill that public workers who worked hard on trade unions and collective negotiations became desperate and their efforts were wasted. See, collective agreements are a text based on an equal level of bargaining system between employees and employers and signed in accordance with the parties' agreement. There is no such content in this bill, unfortunately, only the name of the collective contract. Dear friends, the government's goal is not to reach out or compromise here, but to read and enforce what it knows by pretending to understand, by pretending to understand, by pretending to understand. The current law, which we are discussing with you in the Law on the Law on the Unions of Public Officials, is renamed the Unions of Public Servants and the Common Contract Law. The bill is an arrangement that does not include the right to strike and, in fact, has been changed to a collective contract, which has not been different from the group arrangement before. The bill states that if there is a discrepancy in the collective agreement talks, the People's Officials should apply to the Referee Board and the Council's decision is final. With such cunning, the strike is banned without even mentioning it, and the final decision is made by the Public Officers' Board of Referee. Dear lawmakers, union rights are one. No bird without wings, no collective contract without strike. That's what reason and logic say, that's what international contracts say, that's what ILO says, that's what the union struggle says, but that's not what the bill says. On the other hand, there was no public discussion in 2011 because the collective contract was a Constitutional decree, so the increase of the officers in 2012 has not been determined, and our officers have been forced to receive a salary without a raise for exactly four months, but who cares? The bill continues to ban accession to unions. Lawmakers, judges, prosecutors, civil staff working in the national defence and military, employees of the execution institution, audit staff, civil personnel working in the police force are still being banned. However, if intention had been to remove the obstacles to organisation, if the intention had been to the right, the law, all public workers who had been banned from union membership would have been removed from the scope. The union committee, which will conduct the debate, is highly antidemocratic. And here's the AKP's problem with getting all the authority and the say-so in Officer-Sen. As he does in privatisation and other areas, he wants to create a single, single-colored, thornless rose garden. All authority is given to Officer-Sen, but the decision is made by the government himself. How does he do that? Seven of the 11 members of the Public Officers Referee Board will be elected directly by the minister or the Council of Ministers. An injustice to the union representation continues on the board. Those who seek to establish an authoritarian order with the rhetoric of democracy and an empire of fear also impose the false union law on the statement of the law of the union. Dear friends, the essence of this bill is that there is only one type of contract with which there is no strike, that there is no union membership, that there is a continuing ban on membership in the union, that the government has the authority to sign a collective contract, that the government has made the final decision, that the parties have no say, and that they cannot determine their own fate, and that I have given it to the weak one. It's nothing more than taking away the worker's rights, taking back the trade union struggle, leaving the rights of millions of public workers at the mercy of the confederate confederacy. Instead of the common benefit of all public workers, this bill was drafted in terms of personal interests and political interests.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0121par0178	Thank you, Your Honor.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0120par0179	Dear MPs, we will continue to fight and fight for right, law, labour, human, honor, equal life. It's the only language we understand, we know, we apply. Let that be known to everyone. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0121par0182	Your Honor, I submit to your votes the motion of your friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 26 that I read: T. B. M. To the M presidency It is the 26th draft of the current 200 rows of legislation. Instead of referring to the public staff advisory council in the matter, we would like to request that the public personnel council be replaced by the expression of the advisory council, which will be created from experts on the subject. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0122par0188	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0121par0189	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0123par0190	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0121par0191	Mr. Moonslayer, Mersin... Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0124par0194	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made regarding Article 26 of Law Bill 200. As always, I salute all free-willed lawmakers. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to mention one thing as we begin to talk: Mr. Secretary, yesterday I told you about the death fast in Osmaniye Prison, today is the 43rd day, and let you know that he didn't say it. Don't say it. It's on the record. Reminding the Minister of Justice, it's no use. Hopefully, someone with a conscience will come up and bring it up. Dear lawmakers, the government is trying to make a change in the Unions of Public Officials Law concerning millions of public workers, pensioners and families. What does he do when he's working? Like he always does, he's fooling, he's stalling, and he's doing it by taking the confederate confederacy with him. The bill and the collective talks are more likely to bring an adjustment back. It is held on a level to demonstrate collective contracting rights for trade unions, which are a priority task of protecting members' rights and interests, being organised through business-related issues. On the one hand, it's made to look like a collective contract, but it's not a collective contract, it's just a contract with nails in it. Thousands of municipalities are trying to make it virtually impossible for tens of thousands of public employees to sign a number of restraining provisions and a social balance agreement. Since you don't give the workers the right to strike, this bill is motivated. Since you don't give the workers the right to strike, you won't be able to look the public workers in any way from now on. Mr. Minister is coming out, trying to defend the right to strike by seeking protection from the Constitution, and the minister of the entire Turkish Republic is not really putting himself in a good position. Mr. Secretary, was there someone holding your hand, why didn't you go for a change? You've made a lot of constitutional changes, and you could have done that, but that's not your intention. Mr. Secretary, you and your government are not really in favor of organization, nor are you in any way. You don't remove the obstacles to freedom of organization, but you also put new barriers. I'm going back to the ruling lawmakers, and it really hurts me. And one of them says: Lift up your hands. You see, someone raises his hand, and you lift it, and you lower it, and you lower it. I mean, it's really pathetic. I look forward to the day when you will use your free will.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0125par0202	Speak for yourself.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0126par0203	We feel sorry for you.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0124par0204	I'm really curious, there was a motion here the other day demanding a strike. Three opposition parties, CHP, MPP, BDP have asked for separate motions to strike. So you're always saying that we're the majority. Here are 51 percent of the people who wanted to strike, 49 percent of the people didn't want to strike.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0127par0205	Learn to pick it up.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0128par0206	Pick it up...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0124par0207	51 per cent of the people wanted to strike, 49 per cent didn't want to strike. What kind of understanding is that? I thought you were a pluralist. I thought you were a representative of the people. I thought you were doing what the majority wanted. Here's 51 percent. They all came out. He said, "We want Grev." He said, "Our people want the right to Grev."
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0128par0208	Pick it up.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0124par0209	None of you want to go out and strike 51 percent of the people, they might be right. Let's join in. You didn't say anything. Did I misunderstand?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0128par0210	Pick it up, it's not 50%.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0124par0211	Did I misunderstand? When you look at the votes, you don't need to know math, 51 percent of the people...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0128par0212	Do the math right. The math is wrong.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0124par0213	... 51 per cent of the people wanted a strike, 49 per cent of the people said no, and won. That's your understanding. You know how you always go out here and say, "Most of us, the majority of us, really..."
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0129par0214	Pick it up... pick it up...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0124par0215	Now, if you've blocked this strike right, there's a local election tomorrow, how are you going to ask the teacher, the officer, for God's sake? How will you look at their faces? I'm really curious.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0129par0216	We'd like to, they'd be happy to vote for us.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0130par0217	I don't know how you got to that 51 percent.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0124par0218	I'm really curious. Look, on the one hand, when you were destroying the Union Act, you turned around and ruined justice. You guys couldn't even calculate the number of members per employee. Don't try to teach me math from where you live.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0130par0220	You can't even collect 51 percent!
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0124par0221	In no way have you formed the Referee Board properly; you have created it from what the government has appointed, and now you call it the collective contract law. Come on, you don't give the workers credit, Minister, don't make fun of the workers. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0131par0224	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Horseman and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 26th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 27: T. B. M. To the M presidency The 27th draft of the current 200 rows of legislation. The period of one month in the article shall be changed to 15 days. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 27th Amendment to the Law on Public Officials' Unions Law, which is currently in session, is part of the 27th Amendment. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Article 27-4688 has been added to the following temporary clause. The collective agreement talks on the common economic, social, democratic, political, autonomy and professional rights and interests of the civil servants of temporary Article 11- 2012 begin within a month of the adoption of this law. The union and confederations to attend these collective contract talks are based on notifications on July 2011 statistics on the number of members of the Unions of Public Officials and confederations, issued in the Official Journal of 27987, dated 7/7/2011 and published in the Official Journal. Do you agree with the latest motion, Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0132par0235	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0131par0236	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0133par0237	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0131par0238	Who will speak, sir?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0134par0239	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0131par0240	I'm reading the reason: Temporarily 11. In accordance with a one-year collective agreement with the article, the arrangement was made for 2012. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. T. B. M. To the M presidency The 27th draft of the current 200 rows of legislation. The period of one month in the article shall be changed to 15 days. Reza Sürmen (Izmir) and his friends Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0135par0249	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0131par0250	Government?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0136par0251	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0137par0252	Mr. Riza Turmen...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0131par0253	Mr. Turmen, Smyrna MP, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0138par0255	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs -- they're not allowed to strike in the Law of the Public Officers' Unions Act, they're not allowed to strike. It is against international law to reject the right to strike. Why is it contrary? This is why: When you look at the European Social Condition, Article 6 states that they recognize the right of workers and public employees to strike in order to ensure effective use of the right to a collective contract. The European Union has the right to strike to protect the interests of workers and public employees in case there is no compromise, says the European Union's First Amendment. ILO contracts, contracts 87 and 151 set the right to strike for public employees. The Council of Ministers' Committee of the Council of Europe's Decision, 2000 (6), says public employees have the same rights as other employees. The European Court of Human Rights says two important things in the decision of Demir and Baykara. In one, the European Court of Human Rights says that when commenting on the contract, it considers improvements in international law. After that, the right to a collective contract is the basis of the right to form a union and become a member. The right to strike is also the basis of the right to form a union. Now, how is Turkey going to stay out of this when there are international legislation that accepts such a broad strike rights? And then there's the 90th article of the Constitution, and we say that if there is a conflict between the international contract and the national law, the international contract will be applied and it will be based on it. So, how is Turkey going to stay out of it when there's something so widely accepted in international law, so public employees are allowed to strike? Sir, as our Constitution predicted, so did we. Let our Constitution say so, whether it is so or not, Turkey can't stay out of such a broad consensus in the international area, so if it stays, it will be in trouble. So, please, when the ILO is blacklisted, when the European Court of Human Rights is sued, the European Court of Human Rights loses, and the Committee of Ministers, which will enforce its decision because of its loss, will now change the law on Turkey. I mean, are these laws done without seeing it, and I don't really understand it. How do you eliminate the right to strike? The strike right is actually eliminated by restrictions on the right to a collective contract, so if there is a discrepancy after the collective agreement, it will go to the Referee Board. What kind of board do you call the Hakem Council? It consists of 11 members of the Council of Ministers, 4 of whom are members appointed by the Public Employers Committee, 7 of whom are appointed by the government. Now, by going here, the worker will have already lost the case, there's no way the worker side can win the case, but the right to strike is being eliminated. This also eliminates the right to a collective contract because why should the employer's side or the government accept the agreement when there is such a Referee Board? So no matter where you hold it, internationally, Turkey has left itself vulnerable, has gotten itself into trouble. On the other hand, this Referee Committee, with this kind of formation, with such a collective arrangement, is in fact extremely unfair, extremely unfair, which hijacks the rights of workers, workers, workers. Why such a law is needed, why such a false law is made, and it is necessary to ask those who make it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0139par0264	Thank you, Mr. Specten. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Turmen and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0140par0267	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0141par0268	It's okay, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0139par0269	This time it's gone.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0140par0270	Let's do it next time.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0139par0271	Those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 28: It is the 28th edition of the two hundred rows-numbered bill. In this article, we would like to change the date of August 10, 2012 to "31,07,2012." To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The 28th Amendment to the Law on Public Servants Unions. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0142par0278	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0139par0279	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0143par0280	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0144par0281	Motive...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0139par0282	Read the reason, please. The authorization process for Law 4688 has begun and is under way. The fact that a date after May 15th was set as a temporary date for authorization is not legally available, nor is it functionally appropriate. Mr. Shandır and I submit the motion of your friends to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. It is the 28th edition of the two hundred rows-numbered bill. In this article, we would like to change the date of August 10, 2012 to "31,07,2012." The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0145par0291	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0139par0292	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0146par0293	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0139par0294	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0147par0295	It's the Moonbeater.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0139par0296	Mr. Pitcher, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0148par0299	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a promise on the 28th Amendment, and I'm going back to where I left off. Mr. Secretary, by ignoring the European Court of Human Rights decisions, international contracts and Constitutional agreements, you have single-handedly given the authority to sign the collective contract to your fellow union. There is no example in the world. Good luck! But just in case, by saying, "I don't trust your white union," you also close the judicial path and bring the Referee Council into action, which you yourself have created. It's obvious there's some very subtle calculations here. What is this account? I'm no fortune teller, but it's not hard to predict the future you're drawing. At times, the White Union will not agree with the government to look pleasant to its members, of course, not to agree with you on your terms. The Referee Council will then step in and say, "What should we do, we did our best, we did our best, the government didn't accept, and the Board of Judges will say, well, it's gone, and it's gone, and it's going to try to look cute on the base." Dear friends, I'd like to address the public workers from here: the Republican People's Party defends a free collective contract order under legal guarantee of the right to strike, and will continue to defend it. The Republican People's Party favours the removal of all obstacles to the freedom of organisation, and will remove them when it comes to it. The Republican People's Party, on behalf of its members, advocates that each union should be able to form a collective contract, and its place, when the time comes, will carry it out. Dear friends, I'd like to say that this bill by the government has been a disappointment to the entire community, not just to the working workers, but to the working officers, but to the entire community. You made a referendum on September 12th. What did you say to the public workers? Aman support us, say yes, and you will now make a collective contract. You have clearly deceived them. They thought there'd be a collective contract that would really suit the laborer. They dreamed of a strike collective contract that really made their dream come true, but for all they know, they're gonna end up in a worse position than they already have. As a result, you allowed the people to say yes. What happened? The mountain gave birth to mice, dear friends. Instead of making a amendment in accordance with your words, we are trying to change the Law 4688 instead of making a law. We're not surprised anymore, we're not surprised because you're really doing what suits you, and that's what suits you, and you're doing exactly the same thing, just like other things, and then you're going out there and you're trying to defend yourself. We'll go door-to-door and tell them what you've done. Now, I have a request from the Minister. There is also a way to make this right: let it come out, and let it be said that we have prepared this law together with Officer-You, and we are selling it to you. It is not difficult to say. Isn't this Officer-You a union too? Union. Well, if it's a union, why are we talking? Look what a union it is. Once or twice, dear friends, see what kind of union Officer-Sen is, and I'm telling you. There are only 41,000 members in 2002, 515 thousand out of 41,000 in 2011. What's the big deal? We're growing up in the economy, growing up in the economy, just like you said. You've blown up the union, just like you've blown up the economy. It's not called growth, it's called fattening, it's called fatting. You know why? For the union which you have made of this miracle has departed, and has departed, and has knocked on the door of Europe, and has not opened the door, and has knocked on the door of the world, and no one has brought it in. Neither in Europe nor in the world is this union recognized for its unclean relationship with the government. Now, you get up in the world with an unrecognizable union in Europe, you come in, you make a collective contract, you call it the beginning of everything, and then you say, "Wow, we have a collective contract. Dear friends, does this bill help organize tens of thousands of public workers who are banned from becoming union members? No. Who can be a member? 4/A people, 4/B people. What happened to the 4/C? People of 4/C are slaves. Does a slave make a contract? He won't. And do public workers' rights are being defended? No, it's not defended at all. Dear friends, the Republican People's Party accepts the effort as the highest value and does what is necessary in this framework. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0149par0309	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Horseman and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 29 that I'm reading: It is the 29th edition of the two hundred rows-numbered bill. The period of one month in the article shall be changed to 15 days. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0150par0316	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0149par0317	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0151par0318	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0152par0319	Motive...
tbmm-2012-04-04sit02spe0149par0320	I'm reading the reason: Because of the urgency of the matter. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Article 29 is accepted. There are no motions on Article 30. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break before the 31st Amendment.
