tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Adıyaman MP Mohammed Murtaza Eğyük, who asked for a comment on March 14th Medical Day. Here you go, Mr. Catcher.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0002par0013	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, today is March 14, 2012. A hundred and eighty-five years ago, on March 14, 1827, the first modern medical school was established in our country. The first medical holiday was celebrated on March 14, 1919 by medical students who reacted against the occupation forces in Istanbul, which was occupied after World War I. Over the years following the establishment of our Republic, new medical schools have been established, and our country has reached world standards in terms of the prevalence and quality of health care with the hands of a new generation of medical people. In the past ten years, our country has gone through serious distances towards the greater planning, better quality, more accessible, more human-orientedness of health care. Patient satisfaction has risen beyond compare with past periods. With pleasure, expectations have risen naturally, and anxiety and tensions from patient density have increased. Unfortunately, the negatives in the communication between patients and medical personnel sometimes result in our medical staff being subjected to violence. We believe that our ministry's health-related campaigns for sensitivity development and measures for violence will yield results. Dear lawmakers, our number of physicians is three times lower than the European Union average. Although our physicians have gone through more and more difficult processes than our European colleagues, despite all the improvements, let's say that they still have not received the socioeconomic equivalent of their labor. With medical school, expertise and mandatory service, and 12 months of military service, it is only in the mid - thirties that it takes our physicians to get back to their natural family order. At least the arrangement of military service in the form of mandatory public service can ease the difficult process. To develop and motivate traditional values that are at the core of medicine, by trying to convert medical applications into a scoreboard, it may be able to solve the problems of a competing motivational approach. Yes, as an AK PARTY, let the government live. We're doing everything we can to parallel the graph of our citizens' satisfaction and the gratuity of our health workers. Dear friends, today is March 14th. As a pediatrician, I know how difficult it is to inform and give hope to the patient's relatives, who are trying to read from your tired eyes, who have been suffering from sleepless episodes with the responsibility of a severe patient, who have been on the same pace after shift at the clinic, who expect you to be able to diagnose the patient's condition with thick files. I know what it's like to watch a child who's been lying for a long time breathe his last breath under your hands, pass on the news of a lost patient, then go into your room and cry. I know, of course, that all this work, all this weight, all this risk, like thousands of colleagues who have dressed their lives for the purpose of saving lives, can't fit in any scoreboard. Dear friends, we come from a tradition of thinking, looking for wisdom in medicine. Following the question of how to become a physician, it is to know both the human and the human universe, and to go beyond the causality that surrounds the existence by the hand of the question, and to move on to the wisdom of things and to the wisdom of man. In that case, let's hear the voice of our physicians. Today is the day the physician sips the potion of wisdom that dissolves all the differences that cause blood and tears on the earth. From here, from Edirne to Kars. From Adıyaman Çelikhan to Gerger Tillo Τya, to my colleagues who serve our people in the most remote parts of our country, to my colleagues and colleagues in Van [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My respects to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0003par0024	Thank you, Mr. Güyük. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Khakat MP Reşat True, who wants to speak on the same subject. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0004par0029	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a promise regarding the March 14th Day of Medicine. I salute the High Council. The Day of Medicine, March 14th, is celebrated from 1919. I congratulate you on the March 14th Medical Day of all the doctors and medical staff who have done the most honorable, honorable work in the world. It takes a great deal of self - sacrifice to be a physician and a medical staff; they work day and night, and there is no fatigue in them. However, when all negatives fall upon the physicians, unjust accusations upset the physicians. But physicians work with every kind of sacrifice. In recent years, changes in the health care system that have been made and tried to be made have caused major problems and problems with physicians. In one night, the laws passed without discussion in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, without the opinion of the parties, have made it impossible for physicians and medical staff to look to the future with hope. Congressmans, the AKP has been in power for ten years, and this time period is the process that must resolve all matters in our country. The problems of physicians, medical staff, everyone who was in service had to be resolved, but time is always tried to be filled by telling what was done in the past. In our country today, the physician and the complainant are also complaining. Thousands of physicians and medical personnel are standing all over Turkey; they all want to present the art of medicine to the public's service; while doing so, they want to get rid of our health, job security, and fear of future anxiety. Members of lawmakers, physicians do not want to work in performance pressure, where their rights are pushed back into the background. In an understanding valued for their efforts to provide qualified health care, physicians want new regulations to protect their autonomy rights, to compensate for their losses, and they want professional independence. No arrangement for the post-release of our patients and health workers has been properly done so far. They want a secure revenue distribution that reflects retirement. After years of working and retiring, the retired physician does not want to work again, waiting for a pension to create an honorable retirement life. They say, "Let the return capital revenues be not ignored in various ways, but let them be counted directly into retirement, and let us be rewarded for it." Members of parliament, physicians and health workers are exposed to increasing violence every day. It must not be forgotten that there is no precaution and that there is no delay. The extent of increasing violence must be assessed, and the necessary measures must be taken without delay. Today, the gap between unemployment and income divides increasingly, even the poorest parts of society, their contributions and differences are hurting our people. Retired people who often go to the hospital because of their age suffer a lot and complain. While protective health care is the basic and indispensable duty of the state, quick-growing family medicine has brought many problems. Because of family medicine, health clinics closed in the country were abandoned, and patients were forced to go to family clinics miles from their village. Today, a productive and quality health care presentation has become a longing for all parts of society in our country. To this day, a number of studies presented by the ruling party as innovation have unfortunately not solved the problems of health. As the workload of our physicians increased, new practices led to patient queues in hospitals, which began to be given days after weeks for them to settle down in some parts. For example, when emergency intensive care is needed, the patient's paralysis is lost, and unfortunately, they don't know what to do. The subject of the foreign doctor, which has recently come to the attention, is also a wrong choice. Today, our country's doctors are among the world's number-one physicians on face transplants, leg transplants, and cardiological surgeries they've performed. In that sense, bringing in foreign physicians and medical personnel is not the right thing to do, and that decision must be given up. It's a fact that when Turkish physicians open up, there's nothing they can't do, and they can compete with all the medical centers in the world very comfortably and do all kinds of services. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0005par0042	Please welcome.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0004par0043	I wish them health, health, and well-being, all of our physicians and medical staff, to all of us, to celebrate the March 14th Day of Medicine. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0005par0046	Thank you, Mr. Right. The third unscheduled statement belongs to İzmir MP Hülya Güven, who asked for the same talk. Here you go, Mr. Trust.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0006par0051	Mr. President, Congressmans, due to March 14th Medical Day, he has taken an off-the-book commitment, and I pay my respects. Today is March 14th Medical Day, and also this week's Health Week, but we know that all of our health workers are celebrating their holiday in a bitter state. We're actually transitioning to unhealthy with the Health Transformation Program. Unfortunately, in charge of this transformation, our physicians are shown to be discredited in the eyes of citizens. Before the elections, everyone has the right to choose any physician in the hospitals. The full-day law, which was brought after the election, was taken away from the citizen, even when its direction and logo were prepared. When our patients go to hospitals today, they don't get to see or operate on the doctor they want -- even if it's a private hospital -- of course, the patient blames the doctor, he resents him. Before the election, the government also boasts that family medicine is free. Today, the examination and medicine receive three liras each, and tomorrow, there is no telling what will be taken. Before the election, emergencys will be free of charge, private, public hospital. Now, the emergency physician will decide if the emergency patient comes to the emergency room. In addition, they will only be able to call a certain percentage of the daily patients "emergency," or they will be punished. If a citizen is coming to the emergency room because he has a headache, it's urgent. How can it be decided that this is not an emergency? You're not urgent. How can you say that? I suppose this decision was made so that the emergency workers would be beaten or stabbed, it was removed! This will, of course, lead to violence by confronting the physician and pharmacist and the citizen. The person who owes a bonus is already unable to enter through the emergency door, and the citizen who wants to assess income is unable to receive treatment, even if it is urgent because the system is slow. The government was looking after social security! Congressmans, health is actually a right and should be free. Our citizens should ask the government for their rights, of course. Another problem for our physicians is that today our physicians are referred to as "performans." The more patients the physician takes care of, the more his salary is arranged. In some hospitals, even minutes are kept. The doctor's been preventing patient care at any time. The patient resents the doctor because he's not happy. Our physicians know that they actually want to work full-time, of course, but they don't want to remove their monthly from the patient with performance. The government has to provide these months. Do you know how many years a physician has completed his expertise today? It takes 20 years for a physician to complete his expertise and be able to use his diploma freely. Six years of mandatory service. He can't get a degree if he doesn't do his mandatory service. There's no way a physician can be done. I mean, after a 20-year-old gets into medical school, he's only free to use his diploma at the age of 40. What country in the world has such a lawlessness? In addition, of course, our government has another surprise: foreign doctors and nurses. Hundreds of our health workers are unemployed and imported physicians and nurses are brought in. What are the criteria, what are the reasons for them to come, what are the promises? As we wait for answers to all these questions, I offer my love and respect, saying that health is a right and must be free, so that our citizens can benefit from health care services, as well as the doctors and other health workers who work day and nights. I also want to thank Mr. Mevlüt Aslanoglu for congratulating us on the 14th of March.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0007par0063	Thank you, Mr. Trust. Congressmans, I'm going to take turns giving one minute to our ten lawmakers who have entered the system. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0008par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'm celebrating the March 14th Day of Medicine, wishing that all health workers' holiday would be a holiday feast. Other than that, there are intense shortages of electricity in the district of Ardanuch, Artvin Province. After the privatisation of energy -- the AKSA Electricity in our region -- unfortunately there are serious problems with this energy distribution. There are a lot of power outages in our Ardanuk district, one hour apart, two hours apart, and it's now being transported to the other side of people's tolerance. For this reason, electric vehicles, refrigerators, washing machines are in great chaos. Attempts in the presence of authorities to address this problem have failed. I wanted to take this to the level of Parliament. That's why I thank you and pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0009par0072	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0010par0075	I celebrate the Medical Day of all our physicians. We want an environment where they're not targeted, they're not exposed to violence. We want the system called Performance to retreat into more humane ways. Once again, we have stated that we are not against the law of the full-time law -- that we are not against it -- we ask that the rights of self-inflicted by the full day be restored to our physicians. As a result of closing clinics, we want to provide work environments and work safety for our friends and physicians who work there. I'm celebrating my friends again.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0011par0080	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Dear Citizen...
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0012par0083	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been accepted as a sacred profession, which has never lost its importance as a medical profession. We have complete faith that our esteemed physicians and all our health workers will continue to serve in this caravan of services in a way that is self - sacrificing and faith, in the honor of the profession. We've done the structural transformation and quality of health with valuable physicians and health workers. The work of our doctors and all of our health workers, who act on the philosophy of equal and quality health care, who are willing to sacrifice and make valuable contributions in the field of health, is above all recognition. As a physician's MP, with these thoughts and feelings, I give my sincerest regards to all of our physicians and health workers who have done this sacred, respectable and honorable profession, which aims to reduce the human's suffering and to offer a more qualified life to humanity, and to honor and honor all our health workers, the Day of March 14th of Medicine.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0011par0085	Thank you, Citizen. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0013par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. In an environment where health is privatised, marketed, public health is not cared enough for, where citizens are forced to receive free, equal, easy-to-reach health care, the working conditions of all health workers, especially physicians, are being forced to work as a day goes by. It is now very difficult to provide qualified health care in terms of health care. However, in such an environment, I congratulate all health workers, especially all of our physicians, for their selfless work, and celebrate the medical holidays. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0014par0091	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Tamer...
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0015par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. I give you the honor of celebrating the 14th March Medical Festival of all of our colleagues, who have worked day and night, who have been loyal, who have been humble, who have done their jobs with leniency.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0014par0096	Thank you, Mr. Tamer. Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0016par0099	Thank you, Mr. President, the General Assembly has opened, three of our friends have taken a stand off the agenda, we have friends who are talking; unfortunately there is no representative of the General Assembly at the moment. I said it from where I sat again last week. How do we make our voices heard to the government? Sivas has been stranded on this side for nearly a month. In particular, Kangal, Divricik, İmranlı, close to eight hundred village roads are closed, people have no electricity on one side, they can't reach the city, the students who need transport systems can't go to the district, the patients can't find medicine; Sivas would have to be declared a disaster zone in an emergency; the governor, the skims can't afford it, the private administration, the motors and equipment of the highways can't afford it. I'm screaming from here, if there's a government representative who can hear me, who can hear me, they need immediate intervention. I wanted to announce from here with your intermediary. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0017par0102	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. Mr. Ayday...
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0018par0105	Mr. President, I'd like to begin by celebrating the March 14th Day of Medicine. Mr. President, Berna and Farhad, who have been imprisoned for 19 months for asking for free education, are facing 15 years in prison after the trial prosecutor has been replaced. Again, the after-controversial prosecutor of the famous poshu case has changed, and he is asked to serve 45 years in prison next week's Istanbul special official court. Finally, we read in the newspapers that three new members have been appointed to the relevant office of the State Department, the objector of legislation regarding the MIT Law, which authorises the Prime Minister to form a special gang. The court confirmed this appointment yesterday. As the government claims, we wish to end such interference in the judiciary for a healthy state of democracy and law, not advanced democracy. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0019par0108	Thank you, Mr. Aygun. Mr. Halaman... no. Dear Metiner...
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0020par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to make a little statement to get him on the record. Yesterday, Republican People's Party Deputy Chairman Akif Hamzacebi sent it from the Ideological State to my book "Democratic State" to my book, saying that what I said in the book for democracy and freedom does not agree with what I said in Congress. So, once again, I want to bring to your attention the understanding of democracy and freedom that I stand for in that book. Turkey has an ideological custody regime, so citizens who do not think and act in accordance with the government's ideology are considered enemies and are being replaced. Democracy, in its essence, is without ideology. To democratize the state, you have to purge ideology. It is not the regime of the white man with privileges; it is not the name of a regime in the custody of a military, bureaucratic elite. A democratic republic that everyone can freely develop with their differences is a book written in a theme that wants democracy for everyone and freedom for everyone. Today I defend that understanding, no more, no less. It's about eight years of uninterrupted education and coefficients in colleges.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0021par0117	Thank you, Mr. Metiner. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0022par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. I too celebrate the March 14th Medical Day of all our physicians. Once again, I would like to express my regrets for the unfortunate events of the National Board of Education on 11 March. In this regard, we will speak in whatever language they understand, pointing to this brute force, physical oppression and violence. The Prime Minister has a obligation in the state of law to speak the language of the law, the requirements of the Civil Code. An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, has no place in a democratic state. Brute force is wrong to judge the physical force demonstration in the logic of retaliation if it's short. First of all, it is the Prime Minister's duty to stop the Turkish Grand National Assembly from being a violent fight zone. The first thing that needs to be done is avoid tension-enhancing conversations. I invite the ruling authorities to act responsibly, in the name of democracy, with respect.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0023par0123	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0024par0126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We, the National Movement Party Group, are deeply celebrating the healthcare sector, the Medical Day, the medical day, of all our hospital employees, especially doctors. We know your problems, and we're trying to put them on every level. We hope that the political government will bring their solutions to the House without delaying the problems, with common sense, with compromise, with law to resolve these problems. It is not Turkey's place to celebrate the problems over and over again. These problems are known. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a common responsibility to resolve these problems, especially political power. But in spite of everything, sir, I sincerely congratulate all healthcare workers on the holiday of medicine, and wish our country all the best, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0025par0130	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Mr. Straight...
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0026par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. We are going through a period in which any positive development in health has been written to the government, and any negative development has been written to physicians. On this occasion, I condemn the violence of all these physicians from your grand bench. I want it known that my fellow physicians will continue to provide their patients with the best care after today, as they have today. As the Republican People's Party, I celebrate the Medical Holidays, and I embrace them all with love and longing, saying that we will stand by their every democratic challenge.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0027par0136	Thank you, Mr. Straight. Mr. Dinçer...
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0028par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm celebrating the March 14th Medical Day of all health workers. There is a hospital in Kartal Province where the head of the Red Moon branch is doing great work. It's a really poor area. People here are getting very cheap and healthy, quality health care. However, the General Directorate of Kızılay seized the administration of this hospital without justification, and took it from the branch administration. This hospital, spoken in that area, will now be pursued by a group of health groups close to power. I ask that this matter be taken into consideration, that Mr. Health Minister and other officials stand on it, that this hospital, which will serve the public, be transferred back to the Red Sea, remain on the Red Sea. Otherwise, it's going to be a very wrong procedure. I'd like to remind you of that on med school day. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0029par0144	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0030par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I celebrate the Medical Day of all our physicians and health workers. I wish for a country in Turkey, where Turkey has the health care of our society and our citizens who have health insurance have been granted unlimited health care. I take it it as a disrespect to this day that a minister from the government has not been here to listen to the talks as they are being held for the holiday of medicine. I'd like to give you all the best regards as the Republican People's Party Group to have the Minister of Health present during the meeting of the motion we're about to submit to the information and discretion of the General Assembly as a result of the Day of Medicine.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0031par0151	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0032par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party, I celebrate the 14 March Day of Medicine of all our physicians and health workers who have ever used the most sacred work from the existence of mankind in the service of mankind. I'd like to call on our party's behalf to call on Congress to be more sensitive to the solution to the growing problems. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0033par0158	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Congressmans, I'll make a promise to our last two deputies. I'm gonna have to ask you to stay out of the system from now on. Here you go, Mr. Gardendoor.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0034par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. And I, the AK PARTY Group, congratulate all our physicians and all the workers who work in health care on the Day of Medicine, and wish them well. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0035par0165	Thank you, Mr. Gardendoor. Finally, Mr. Threeer...
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0036par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating the Medical Day of all health workers. I extend my love and respect to all of them in the hope of a better life in the future. He also condemns today's attack on Kurdish workers in Kütahya, and I want to stress that government officials must be protected by the security forces, by the Van earthquake victim who was attacked there, by the workers who live in the town of Çelebagak, and by the workers who go there to work there. I also condemn the fascist attack.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0037par0171	Thank you, Mr. Threeer. We're going on the agenda. They're presenting to the General Board of Directors. There's a motion for a retraction of the oral question motion, which I'm reading: 13.03.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'd like to withdraw the oral question motion in oral questions section 6/1038. With all due respect, I do. Dr. Reşat Right The oral question motion has been returned. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the interest of researching the problems of the producers of agriculture and animalism in our country, we propose and propose the opening of Parliamental Research, under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to assess and assess the measures that should be taken for the evaluation and marketing of our farmer's production woes. Over the world, agriculture is a very important and strategic sector for all countries because of the growing and diversifying demands of food materials, its contribution to national income, exports and employment through agricultural-based industries, and its benefits to biodiversity and ecological balance. In recent years, the global drought has reminded many countries that agriculture is a strategic sector, and conscious countries have changed agricultural policies, unlike our country, not according to liberal rhetoric and market conditions, but according to this reality. Our country was reduced to a red alert in 2007 due to the failure of agricultural economic policies and climate changes. Global warming, drought, height of input costs and rising food prices are at the top of the issues Turkey has talked about most in months. In addition to drought and global warming, our country, which is self-sufficient with its soil production, is looking for serious dangers because of the government's policies. "The important part of Turkey's territory will become a desert," says all experts on agriculture, warning us against this bad painting. The first concrete images of this vision clearly show itself in the inner Anatolian region and in the Southeast Anatolian region. In addition to dehydration and drought, due to extreme increases in prices of diesel, fertilizer, seeds and agricultural medicines, Turkey is experiencing severe problems in the production of grain, vegetables and fruit, while irrigated land is unable to water because of our farmers' energy debt, while the state leaves the farmer with no chance to breathe. In recent years, the wheat fields in our country have declined from 9.4 million hectares to 8.5 million hectares, while Turkey has had to import large quantities of wheat, while exporting significant amounts of wheat and flour in the world in 2007, according to the 2008 Wheat Report of the Union of Agriculture. Similar problems occur in the animal industry as well. In the early 1980s, it was estimated that there were 16 million cattle in Turkey, with the figure now reduced to less than 10 million. Not just cattle, but other animal species have been known to have setbacks. Our manufacturers have had to sell their products under the cost due to extreme increases in costs, with problems such as various diseases being added to them, they've avoided production day after day. As a result of the wrong agricultural policies he has implemented, the government has bankrupted our farmers who are able to manage and support themselves with good and bad, and foreclosed everything on their debt to the state and made it unable to produce. By getting our farmer to leave his village and his land, millions of unemployed in our cities add millions to their army. A parliamentary investigation must be opened to determine the measures to be taken to address the above-resolved problems. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] [[Inconceived]] 13) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Manisa]] 18) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kastamon]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the interest of researching the negativity before and after privatisation practices in our country, determining the errors in value detection and tender prices, determining how the privatisation of economic and social problems and privatisation revenues stemming from privatisation, resolving the shortcomings of the practice and determining the solutions of our Constitution, and investigating the allegations of corruption. 98 and Introduction 104 and 105. We propose and supply the establishment of a Parliamentary Research Commission according to the clauses. Privatisation is an important issue that concerns production, investment, foreign trade, infrastructure, industrialisation, technology, development, the future of the country, in other words particularly. And it's on the country's agenda since 1980. Privatisation, however, is not implemented to serve the purposes high enough in our country. Privatisation practices in our country have been noted by its method and its value and determined value, the claims that the buyers have been pursued, especially in privatisation practices, at the expense of corruption and supporters, almost every time, from domestic-foreignness jobs to budget cuts. Reports of several irregularities stemming from privatisation practices have at times been covered by newspaper headlines, as well as by the Constitutional Court's decisions. The most harmful aspect of the privatisation policies applied is that they act with understanding at all costs. Privatisations, regardless of strategic properties, without good local alien distinctions, have brought much bigger problems, problems. If strategic facilities are to be sold to foreigners in particular, it should be a matter of research on its own. In addition to the material size of privatisation practices, the situation of employees in privatised institutions is one of the main issues on the country's agenda. The closest example is the condition of the monopoly workers. The situation of workers and staff working at the privatised institutions is crucial that they are not victimized in matters such as seniority and reporting compensations, social benefits increases, transfers to other public institutions. In particular, after recent privatisation practices, the recruitment of personnel in the privatized institutions has created a separate victim cut. The staff in the privatised institutions and institutions should be staffed to other institutions, while 4/C personnel who do not have employee or officer status are being robbed of their social rights and salaries. So for all these reasons, to investigate the negatives that happened before and after privatisation practices in our country, to determine the errors in value detection and bid prices, to determine how economic and social problems and privatisation revenues have been evaluated due to privatisation, to assess the deficiencies and solutions in practice, to investigate the allegations of corruption in our Constitution, 98 and 104 and 105 of Integration. A Parliamentary Research Commission must be established according to Articles [[Kütahya]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Mersin]] [[Elazığ]] 7) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[Manisa]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 14) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] 16) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Kastamon]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to address the policies of the Ministry of National Education for employment of students who have graduated from education schools in Turkey, and to investigate the difficulties in the educational system, the shortcomings and needs of the educational system, the Constitution is 98. It's the 104th of the TBMM Charter. And in accordance with Article 105, we would like to submit a parliamentary investigation. Turkey has 172 universities as of 2011. Of these, 105 are university of state, 61 are university of trust, and 6 are university of applied sciences. This number is increasing day by day, and parallel to this, the candidates for teachers who have graduated from universities are increasing at this rate. According to the National Minister of Education, this year's teacher deficit is 150. This number is over 300,000, according to independent institutions and organisations. The number of teachers waiting for the appointment is more than 350,000. In our country, where the need for teachers is high, education system and education workers have not been given the necessary attention. One of the most influential structures in society is the education system, which is being victimised by financial policies, and the education of our children is being interrupted. When we look at OECD's report on Turkey's education, the number of students per grade in OECD countries is 21.6, 19.3 in Austria, 19.6 in Denmark, 16.8 in Greece, 18.7 in Italy. "In Turkey, there are 32 students per classroom per elementary school. That number is 46 in Istanbul, 36 in Ankara, 38 in Bursa, 39 in Adana, 45 in Van, 53 in Şanlıurfa." In the OECD countries, there were 21.6 students per classroom in primary school, while the number was 32 in Turkey. In OECD countries, spending per student per student is $6,741 per year in primary school and $130 per year in Turkey. The number of illiterates in our country is 4,640,000, according to data from the Turkish Statistical Agency (TİK). This number corresponds to 7.68 percent of the age to learn how to read and write. Of those who can't read and write, women are 79.98 percent. This data also shows that education is not important in Turkey and the education system is not responding to the needs of society. Education activities are failing, failing, and the workload of working teachers is increasing year after year. The Ministry of National Education, however, is leading this problem to unresolved, rather than solution, by employing a paid teacher in a commercial profit move. We must also remember the psychological reflections of this practice that commercialises education. On the one hand, lacks of technical and curriculum issues in elementary school and secondary school, scandals in central exams, institutional problems in universities, on the other hand, college graduates in science-education colleges struggling in uncertainty, and non-assigned teacher candidates for years... The common result, no doubt, is increasing unemployment, facing a reality of Turkey, where reading and getting a degree does not work. It is urgent that the funds that should be set aside for the education system in Turkey should be calculated in consideration of the needs in education and that the measures necessary to address the economic-based problems of the educational system should be taken care of. The Ministry of National Education must immediately do the necessary work for the removal of the victims of non-assigned teachers. [[Van]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Van]] [[Mersin]] [[Şanlıurfa]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Wednesday 14,03,2012 (today), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Charter. M. Akif Hamzacebi The meeting of Turkey's Grand National Assembly Agenda (about violence against physicians and other health workers) was proposed on Wednesday (January 14/118) in the Union of the General Assembly's 14.03.2012. In favor of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Mersin MP Aytüğ Atcı. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0038par0357	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favour of our proposal to investigate the causes of the violence against physicians and other health workers, to investigate, to find solutions, and to establish parliamentary research in order to establish anti-violent policies. I salute you all. Dear friends, today is March 14th, Medical Day. A large part of the physicians are having a bitter holiday because they're led by a minister who devalues their professions, attacks them at every opportunity and exerts constant pressure. I wish the Minister were here to listen to us and show that he cares about health, at least in shape. In fact, it's not just that his physicians are devastated, it's that the Minister is a physician who destroys our physicians. In spite of everything, I celebrate the Day of Medicine, and bow to the health workers with respect and gratitude. Dear friends, the holidays are the days that bind together those who celebrate it and keep the hopes alive. These days, unity, unity, and brotherhood are at its highest level. Some might think, "What is the holiday celebration during these difficult days of physicians? " We think the opposite. Medical students, practitioners, assistant physicians, attendings, faculty, and all health workers are celebrating the March 14th Day of Medicine in spite of those who are trying to poison our holiday. By bonding with each other, we reveal the health of our people and then the ugly games that are played on physicians' rights, and we raise awareness of our people today. And of course, we know that the writers and the leading players of the health game don't like it either. Dear lawmakers, why are we dealing with violence? Because violence is preventable. That's why we think it would help to draw attention to the matter. As the AKP government's health policy in health is established, the physical, verbal, psychological, and economic violence of health workers is increasing, and the reports on this issue are increasingly in print and visual media. The number of health workers who report violence and ask for support by applying to medical rooms and other health professionals is growing like an avalanche. Look, in the last three years, despite everything, I've gone to the doctors' rooms or occupational organisations, and I've gone to violence. Three years ago, 26 years ago, then 50, then 84. It's almost tripled. But there is also this study: All studies abroad and abroad say that the number of cases reported in such cases is just a visible part of the iceberg, and that the number is actually much, much higher. Unfortunately, the talks that the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister sometimes made by misleading the facts with cheap policies and targeting health workers have led to healthcare workers' problems. Health workers, especially physicians, who are subjected to violence and who live in constant fear of violence, are discouraged at work. I would also like to remind you that you may all be sick someday and that you may be examined by these physicians. Dear friends, with the wrong policies -- pay attention, I underline here -- there's always been an effort to pay the medical bill for personal and political benefits. Those who try to wear health and physicians down by making them a toy of politics should be ashamed of what they do by looking at the honorable past of our profession, especially if they are physicians, especially if they are their administrators. Who knows, perhaps these attacks were intended for a purpose, perhaps they were afraid that all medical students in the same class in the Battle of Çanakkale would be brave enough to consider martyrdom an honorable mission. Who knows, perhaps, during the republic, the physicians of the Ataturk... Mr. Secretary, would you allow me to continue my conversation? Who knows, perhaps the fact that physicians in the republic's era had taken part in the Ataturk chapter and carried out university and health revolutions may have frightened some of these people and made the physicians their target. The physicians are always led by science and know how to use their minds. As their experience grew, physicians, whose virtues grew and were popular with the public, stood firm in the face of reactionary currents. Who knows? Maybe that's what scares these executives and makes them consciously wear them out. In addition to the performance-based additional payment system, those who work on the Health Transformation Programme's other topics are no longer confident, their sense of belonging has been weakened, their motivations have been constantly lowered, and they have developed what we call what we call what we call "superative medical practices." So health workers, physicians, are now afraid to touch the patient because of these practices. So now he's asking patients for a lot of examinations, and he's thinking, "Do I get violent instead of health, do I get violent, or do I get scolded?" The product of AKP power has been the subject of health violence, scientific congress and symposiums, dear friends. The Minister of Health has even attended these conventions, these symposiums. I hope he learned something from these symposiums. AKP Power has invented a story called Transformation in Health, and has not been able to finish it for nine years. This government and these governments, which are trying to turn the whole country into a major issue, such as health, have tried to run things through what is called a code of law, a freak called KHK. In accordance with the rule of law, the interpretation of KHK is illegal, illegal, and arbitrary practices. In a manner of speaking, the Minister is playing with health and trying to do something with his trial and error. Look, I'm going to give you a few examples of the Health Minister's inconsistencies. And I'm going to try to explain to you that all of these examples are caused by direct violence. Look, these governments, the AKP governments, they've removed the mandatory service. Very well, congratulations, they've done a good job. They brought it back very soon. Next thing we know, the AKP government's got a chain of shipping. It's beautiful, just as we wanted it to be, there's going to be chain of first, second, third digits, just like all the physicians wanted it to be, and it's beautiful, but then it turns out the chain of transport has been taken away again, and there's really a lot of confusion in the middle. With all this mayhem, the government changes the law. The number and content of the changes are now unknown to even the Ministry bureaucrats. We don't get any answers anymore. It's all gotten complicated, and it's getting violent. Look, when this government is annulled by the Court of Public Health, it immediately makes law, and when the law is annulled by the Constitutional Court, I mean, why is it that every thing I take out is being cancelled, and where am I doing wrong? Look, what else did this government do: we're going to cut the relationship between the doctor and the patient. We were very happy, we really enjoyed this practice, but then we found out that he had a relationship between the patient and the doctor, and he started taking knife money from all the patients, almost all the patients. No matter which health clinic you go to, no exceptions, no knife money, no one gets out without paying at least $5 to pay for this 40 lira. So let the Minister of Health go to the hospital that puts the population paper in his pocket. Now, don't forget your wallet. It says very clearly. Dear friends, violence has not been self-inflicted, it has been violent for nine years. Mr. Secretary, violence is my problem personally, and I've taken it under my protection. I'm calling from here, Mr. Secretary, please take this violence under your protection. Don't hold it in your care, because the more you take care of it, the more violent the violence gets. Will we be able to stop this violence, the violence against physicians, health workers? Here, we have a proposal for you.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0039par0377	Please take your word for it.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0038par0378	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll look into it now. What will the lawmakers do? When Mr. Speaker asks to be investigated for violence against physicians, no, don't be investigated. I will personally choose how many physicians raise their hand here, and I will see it, and believe me, I will report you everywhere. My hope is dwindling, and it's getting less and less, because the frequent scene of violence in the House often diminishes my hope that you will support this proposal. Yesterday, after the trial of the Sivas massacre in Sivas, the bombing of pepper gas on the very gentle people makes me less and less hopeful that you will say no. Yet there are some among you who have a conscience, and there are physicians among you. Come, support this proposal, we will protect 400,000 health workers from violence, and at least on March 14th, this Parliament will sign a decision like this. Come on, let's support this bill, let's all give it up for you. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0040par0383	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Against you, Mersin MP Ali Oz. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0041par0386	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, today, as we all know, is March 14th, Medical Day. First put me in the care of the Turkish physicians. I remember the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and all Turkish medicines who arrived in the afterlife with mercy and gratitude. In recent years, the practice of violence against physicians has been increasing day by day, as the precious speaker puts it. We're all following this, especially in the media. Of course, in the declaration of March 14th Medical Day, we are talking about a group of Turkish doctors who found themselves, encouraged themselves, and fought in a serious way during the Turkish physicians' Liberation War. In fact, physicians have managed to overcome many challenges from the beginning of their professional lives through their trust, love, loyalty, and devotion to this nation. But we regret to point out that violence against physicians, physicians, and health workers have increased day by day, especially in recent years. Of course, more than the violence inflicted on physicians on the 14th of March, it is a situation that we all desire to discuss today's situation, health workers' demands, and how much of them can be met. The medical profession teaches us to dedicate our lives to the service of humanity, to use our medical knowledge to humanity, to carry out our profession with conscience and dignity, not to allow assessments of religion, nation, race, party politics or social situation to come between our patients, to take the basis of human rights in the presentation and development of health care services, and to take the basis of human right to health care for all citizens. We consider human life to be the most sacred by the principles of these universal professions. We believe that in the name of our anonymous physicians, who stood on the thinnest edge of human life, who stood by you for seven days and 24 hours at the most difficult times, who refused to make any sacrifices, that the sanctity and dignity of the practice of medicine should be preserved, and that no one should try to ignore it, and that everyone should share their consciousness. To prevent violence against physicians, education is also the most important factor in solving problems in every part of society, and education is ahead of everything. In particular, in recent years, much of the violence against physicians and doctors in private and in the media has not contributed to the prevention of violence against physicians in the future. The fact that only physicians are thrown in front of a citizen, that they may be subjected to violence when necessary, that they may be perceived as the nature of the practice of medicine, is deeply disturbing to all our physicians. Regarding this issue, some notifications the Ministry of Health issued two years ago, especially from Article 10 of the Emergency Service Declaration, appear to be made up of regulations concerning the safety of emergency services. Of course, our E.R. physicians and especially healthcare workers, especially those who serve in the E.R., have brought a very serious burden on them. We all know, especially in order to reduce the money that our citizens are going to spend on their health, their pockets, that people who are not in an emergency are piling up in emergency rooms, that people who are in a real emergency are sometimes really seriously victimized in this crowd. With the latest practice, our fellow physicians in the E.R. specifically face patients more often. As patients express how they will assess the emergency situation, they try to go to the pharmacy and re-teach the doctor whether it is urgent or not to go back to the emergency room so that you don't have to pay the difference that you just put at a prescription price. This is a truly sad situation for our physicians. The more patients you look at, the more patients you get, the more you get, the more money you can get in return for it, the simpler it is, the more violent it is that a system based on performance practice is actually an example of violence that can be done to physicians. Violence against the woman growing daily in our society, especially the woman, the lady, the lady, and the physicians in our female friends, also show themselves more and more. There's a general perception in our society that women are perceived to be more natural than men, and if a female physician who works there exposes her encounter with a patient to a few minutes of delay, she's subject to very different verbal accusations, a sort of verbal violence. I believe that this Assembly, especially considering the sanctity of the profession of medicine, should do serious things at the point of violence against physicians and personally owe it to our fellow physicians. Because the profession of medicine is truly a sacred profession. After all, it's a non-profit job, beyond serving people with only pain and suffering. Violence is described as 45 per cent according to statistics on our fellow public-service physicians, while our private sector physicians are less exposed to violence, 5%. At least once in their lifetime, the health worker said he had witnessed a violent incident, saying he had witnessed 96 per cent, while 64 per cent of them said he had been subjected to violence at least once. On the other hand, according to research data that violent groups, sick and sick relatives, are health administrators, but especially men commit overwhelming amounts of violence, 86% of the profile of those who practice violence is a sick and sick relative. The rate of violence applied only to patients is around 6%. 14 per cent of the violence inflicted on health workers is carried out by health administrators. 92 percent of violent people are created by men. We find that violence, particularly in the 14 percent section mentioned above, depends on its top-level relationships within the working environment. While the Turkish Medical Association remains on the agenda of professional organisations, particularly for violence against the physician, trade organisations continue to work on the causes of violence, risk factors and measures against violence, creating common platforms to prevent violence against their members. The general and systematic state of violence against the physician has forced the evaluation of the process in recent years. In the evaluation process, it is beneficial to remove violence from natural concepts such as ▪ human nature and to apply it to concrete facts. In this framework, it is important to know that many groups of people who have experienced violence in the health system have emerged in line with their desire to create and maintain their own power, because the concept of violence in the environment of health, although the concept of social violence remains in the concept of social violence, is being developed, implemented, and maintained in their own dynamics. Here, the ministry and its institutions, the sick and sick relatives, the physician and other health workers involved in the presentation of health care, are presented as actors of the phenomenon of violence. Together with the Health Transformation Programme, which aims to turn health care into an industry, significant oppositions and closeness among those listed above have emerged. The reason why emergency physicians are often exposed to violence is because of the intensity of work, the tension of the applicants, and the story that is promised to the public by politicians, under the name "Returning in Health," and that they will receive endless service and respect in the emergency room. It is clear that we really need to reconsider ourselves here. Therefore, I respectfully salute the High Assembly, especially with the fact that it is a serious problem for the doctors to be subjected to violence in a way that we do not desire to be exposed during their duties.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0042par0404	Thank you, Mr. Oz. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Lehine, Bingol MP İdris Baluken. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0043par0408	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge in favor of the Republican People's Party's motion to investigate the violence against physicians and health workers. I salute your committee. On the occasion of March 14th, I am again celebrating the March 14th Medical Day of all our physicians and health workers on behalf of our party. Now, I think it's right to look at the whole picture and examine the part of the picture that reflects on the healthcare workers as we look at some general problems with the violence of physicians. Generally, the AKP government, which is the administrator of the neoliberal policies that the capitalist system has implemented at a global level, is seen to have put health workers and physicians in a full circle of problems, especially in health. The overall goal of the current neoliberal policies is to create an army of needy people of 98 per cent, a 2 per cent rich club. This is an understanding that crushes its own power in all social areas, like a mid-class cylinder that works its way through its own life, and directs all the dynamics of the middle class to either the rich club or the army of the needy. I'd like to point out that there are the same conditions for health workers here. Either a medical profile that prioritizes individual and society, prioritizes the patient, prioritizes ethics, executes its own profession, or a medical profile that is employed in a medical system that is over-marketed to get into a 2-percenter or 5 per cent wealthy club at the point we're talking about. Dear lawmakers, you know, there's been a Change in Health Program run by the AKP government since 2004. We've shared many times on this council bench the reflections of the Change in Health Programme on our people and on our patients. The systemic problems that have arisen in this system, which is now as much health and health as money, are, unfortunately, directed to physicians and health workers, in a highly skilled demagogical way, along with the latest revenue test for the green card holders. It's as if all of the obstructions of the system, all of the problems were caused by physicians, a language and style used as healthcare workers, unfortunately, have opened the way for violence against physicians and health workers today. Dear friends today are presented to the community as a professional group, so to speak, who earn a lot of money, who earn a lot of money, but don't produce as much as the money they earn. Now, I'd like to emphasize again that the main goal here is to identify the scapegoat for the problem of the transformation project, which we're talking about. In particular, in recent days, we have witnessed frequent cases of abuse against physicians, violence against physicians, and even tragedies about physicians who have lost their lives. I think the general approach here should be questioned by this Parliament by a physician who gave his people the best years of his life to save his life, giving his people all the sacrifices of his time, if there's a blockage of violence, violence, and death. Studies conducted by professional organisations show that 30 per cent of working physicians suffer from this trauma every day, psychologically, verbally or physically. The rights rate of traumatized physicians in legal processes is extremely low, such as 40 per cent. Of course, these low rates here need to be perceived in such a way that the government does not take adequate stances in the violence against physicians at the level of our people, and in the face of the pressure and violence against physicians, and it is an important factor to increase the violence we are talking about. Recently, we've all read the reports of doctors being beaten by the hospital director with political activity here in the House, whose relatives are close to them. In the same way, in a district of Diyarbakır, we shared with you at times here, in Parliament, that there were no legal proceedings regarding the violence of the female physician, that were carried out by the governor, that there were no administrative investigations carried out. We think that such approaches should be treated as some sort of legitimizing approach that somehow paves the way for the violence against the physician. Dear lawmakers, the labor of physicians who have demonstrated the most sacred labor since mankind's existence has today, through performance, unfortunately, been metabolized today through bonus points. Here, instead of a doctor's performance, we need to reveal some approaches to question the government's performance. Look, we've only shared this government's performance here over and over in the Van earthquake. We've all witnessed how the government suffered the victims of the Van earthquake, the physicians who worked at Van, and the physicians who went there voluntarily under the leadership of the Medical Union and the Sound, tried to face it. All of humanity has witnessed how physicians who support their family, who are concerned about their children's education and future concerns worked with sacrifice during a natural disaster. On this occasion, during the Van earthquake, I would like to remember the Japanese doctor Miyazaki, who died because of the recklessness of the rulers, from here, in the name of humanity, with gratitude and mercy. Dear lawmakers, today the average medical salary is around 1,900 euros; all other payments, additional payments and performance systems are assessed. None of these additional payments and performances reflect retirement. Again, such an approach in the study robs the doctor of his right to be sick, his right to receive a report due to illness, or the right to a doctor's permission. All these general approaches and violence against the physician, unfortunately, have created a pessimistic medical population that is frustrated in despair. In recent research, the rate of hopelessness among physicians and health workers has dropped to less than 10 percent. The obligatory services are mandatory in medicine when they are not in any professional group. A physician who completes his mission with mandatory service is, of course, facing a mandatory military clamp. From here, we'd like to call the Minister and the Council. At the very least, there is a need for a legal arrangement to consider the working time the physician laid out there as a mandatory military service. There is an extremely difficult, very long conversational period to fully state the issues of medicine here, but we would like to point out here that the problems experienced by practitioners, family physicians, assistant physicians, senior intern physicians have grown like avalanches today. Although no professional group has had a 36-hour seizure period, physicians, assistants, intern physicians and practitioners are forced to stand guard under 36 hours of non-human, human rights conditions. In the form of slavery, so to speak, in the form of intern doctors, without food, when it comes to nursing, when it comes to staff, when it comes to nurses, when it comes to assistant physicians. At the very least, this Parliament must somehow put a minimum wage payment on intern doctors ahead of itself. We feel that all performance practices are wrong, and that an arrangement for working peace is needed to be based on an honorary procedure, which is quick to apply equal wages to equal work, providing work peace, providing workplace peace, without the need of anyone else. I'd like to point out that physicians, in fact, have to work three hundred and sixty-five hours a year, not forty hours a week, with a response system that is not in any professional group.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0044par0426	Please, make your commitments.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0043par0427	I would like to repeat from here that physicians have to struggle constantly with heavy work paces, increased workloads, especially during weekends, holiday holidays, official holidays, and the internal watch system. Because of all the negatives we've counted, the Council must surely intervene, form a research commission, and demonstrate some solution approaches to the increasing amount of violence against physicians and health workers every day, according to the results. Therefore, I would like to say that we will vote in favor of the motion for research, and I would like to pay our respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0044par0430	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Against him, Congressman Ismail Sun. Here you go, Mr. Sun.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0045par0434	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the Republican People's Party's proposal to the physicians about violence. I salute your high council and our beloved nation. I, too, celebrate the Medical Day of all our dedicated medical workers, all of our physicians and health workers, who are willing to sacrifice and continue to work successfully and represent us both in our country and abroad. There are 358,000 health workers in our country, including 121,000 physicians and 173,000 midwife nurses. Of course, when I listened to my predecessors, it was like we didn't live in the same country. Now, we need to take a look at our pre-2002 physicians and health workers. Now, before 2002, our practitioners were approximately 1,600-1 with today's money. He was paid $700 a week, he was doing a clinic once a week, and since he couldn't make a living, he was busy doing other things on other days of the week. This physician didn't even consider our friends as physicians. At first, our Minister of Health wasn't putting them in that period so that the citizen would consider them doctors. So no one looked at them as doctors, and there was only one clinic room in each clinic, and although there were four or five other physicians, they could not open the exam room. On the other hand, when we look at specialists, specialists are about 1,800-1 with today's money. And if they could get 900 lira, they would get about 200-300 dollars every three months. Here, of course, the physicians were told that that's all the money I could give you as a state, but other than that, do what you can. Therefore, the welfare level of fellow physicians who knew their job or well applied practice was high, and the financial status of other physicians, who couldn't do it, who couldn't provide good information and equipment, was poor, but no one complained. He was the main complainant because the citizen was unable to reach the physician at the time. Statistically, at that time, the public rate of a citizen going to a doctor year was 2.8 per cent, and most of that was 60 to 70 per cent to hospitals, the second step. No one put the first step back in the medical facility. On the other hand, when we looked at what our health facilities were like, we had a very low quality number of rooms, our number of intensive care beds were around 6,800, and we were a very poor country for tools. On the other hand, there wasn't one exam room for every physician. There was only one or two clinic rooms in a major with five or six physicians, and if the patient can't match his physician, well, wow. He'd only wait a week or go to his office. Of course, we lived those days together, we didn't forget. Some of us took advantage of those days, some of us didn't, but the greatest injustice was a citizen. A state must first serve its own citizen, and in the second phase, of course, it must serve its health workers. Of course, after 2002, a great change and transformation began in health, and what we did first was we put the hospitals together and gave citizens who ranked at six o'clock at 5:00 a.m., the opportunity to receive services from all hospitals to citizens of the USSR. You are from the USSR, you can only go to the SEC hospital, you can't go to other hospitals, you can only take medicines that exist in the USSR, you can't take other medicines. Then why didn't you speak up? I mean, I'm having a hard time understanding that. Why didn't you speak up? Because...
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0046par0441	You'll understand if you read our show. Talk to your own group.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0045par0442	Most of the state hospitals were untested...
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0046par0443	You don't know the world.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0045par0444	...and no CT, no MRI, most of the patients were being referred. But thank God, after 2002, the change in health and transformation began, and everything changed. If you look at it financially, now, after the performance-based system came in, the doctor's view of the patient changed and became more sick looking, and he became better to the patient. Of course, we supported it financially. So the physician who gets $1,900 is now charging at least $4,500 to $10,000, so...
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0046par0446	Whose pockets does this money go to?
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0045par0447	It's government money, it's our money. Therefore, physicians have increased in prosperity.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0046par0449	Get the doctors to do a survey! You make me do everything, get the doctors to do a survey!
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0045par0450	When no one puts a doctor in a doctor's place, a family physician received a fee of between $4,000 and $8,000 and was able to lead an honorable life.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0046par0451	Polls, polls!
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0045par0452	Of course, we don't live in the same country; the window you're looking at is very different, the window we and the people are looking at is very different.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0046par0453	Have the doctors do a survey!
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0045par0454	On the other hand, of course, if you're from the BUG-KURL service of 112, deposit the gas money first and then send an ambulance.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0046par0455	Who was saying that? In your group... look, they've become ministers, they've become Speakers, you've got them, they've been saying.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0045par0456	We now have the 112 services completely free, and so 112 have reached urban transport in five to 10 minutes, 25 to 30 minutes in the countryside. Therefore, in health care, the number of intensive care has been increased rapidly, and all kinds of surgeries have been performed in county hospitals, and the treatment of the patients has been greatly reduced.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0046par0457	Free that brain of yours, your brain!
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0045par0458	So it's going to take some time, of course, for you to understand that there's a big change, a transformation. I hope you'll understand that in later years. So, you say the great social state, you say the word, we do it. In the name of becoming a social government, all of our children under the age of eighteen can be treated by being put under the social security system and thus without any anxiety or concern. On the other hand, of course, emergency services have been completely free. The ones who used to come into the emergency room were the first ones to deposit their money or to be held hostage. Now you don't hear such things, thank God, and our citizen sees them very, very well.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0047par0461	Who was taking the money, too? We were taking the money, weren't we?
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0045par0462	Of course you're coming, and you're taking advantage of these services. So, of course, there was no such thing as looking for patients. There used to be no such thing as patient rights. Patient rights were brought in in 2003, so... it's not important to you, is it? Why are we working? We work for this citizen. The patient's rights have been granted, and therefore, for the first time, the patients have had the honor and happiness of being humanized. So the patient's rights...
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0047par0464	Tell me the number of beds in the servant.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0045par0465	... became a pretty good workout.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0047par0466	How much has the number of beds fallen on the footman?
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0045par0467	Since health care, which was 2.8 in 2002, reached 7.5 (K) today, and therefore has been so intense that, of course, for the first time, the practice of patient rights began, some patients may have used it against some health workers because they did not know how to use them at first. But now that consciousness is growing, the violence of health workers has become even less. The Hekleman is integrated, not separated. We know very well that when the patient comes to the city, when he comes to the university, he only goes to the practice so that he can go to the hospital to get the master's bed reserve, which we know very well, so we never forget. I mean, if you had children of your own, if you had a mother, if you had a father, would you settle for them? The orator who spoke before us, the college professor, he'll probably benefit from it, which he has no complaints about.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0048par0470	Why are you telling us, my friend?
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0045par0471	Thus, this violence will be reduced even further. Mr. Health Minister's work continues on this matter. The application of the white code -- inshallah -- will take effect in April. So we're going to try to reset the violence to the health workers. Therefore, I declare myself against this motion. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0049par0474	Thank you, Mr. Sun.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0050par0477	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-03-14sit01spe0049par0478	You want roll call. There's a request for roll call. If our lawmakers stand up... Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Altay, Mr. Öntay, Mr. Akar, Mr. Pine, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Özgundüz, Mr. Ozkes, Mr. Oyan, Mr. Ekinci, Mr. Atici, Mr. Star, Mr. Ayadýn, Mr. Aya. I'll give you two minutes to roll call: [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
