tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 19th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise two congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement is owned by Mardin MP Erol Dora Τ, who wants to talk about education in the main language. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0002par0009	Mr. President, before I speak, I salute the General Assembly. In the culture and social life of a people, the mother tongue stands in a very important place. The mother tongue is defined as the object of man's unconsciousness, which is considered the cornerstone of his identity, and is the most powerful bond of individuals to society. The famous Austrian philosopher Wittgenstein says that the boundaries of the tongue are the boundaries of my world. One thinks in its native language, dreams in its native language, and produces it. Thus, it is not acceptable for a person to be banned from education in the native language of a human being from the moment he was born, adopted, and considered part of himself. It's a single violation of human rights to be cut out of the mother tongue by putting obstacles in the way of a human being. Why is education important in the native language? Why do we insist on removing obstacles to education in the main language? I think there are three dimensions of this matter that are more important than each other. First, there is the positive legal dimension of education in the main language. Secondly, it's more than positive law, it has a human right, and finally, when we think about Turkey's political process, it has a very important political dimension. Congressmans, the expression that education in the native language is a universal human right is available in many international agreements. It was the third quarter of the 4th article of the Helsinki Final Syndicate, ▪ States have the obligation to learn the native language of minorities as much as possible, or to take the necessary measures that they can afford to be educated in their native language... The other thing that should be mentioned about education in the native language is that it is a human right, of course. No human being can be torn from its own language, which is part of its own existence, because every nation's native language cannot be torn from its social and human existence. Since it is learned in a natural process without any method of learning, people make sense of themselves, of society, of the world, of the symbols of the mother tongue, of their voices. Because of all this, the mother tongue is of great importance not only to individuals but also to communities. Scientific studies on the subject show how powerful education is associated with school success in the main language. In the 2005 report by UNESCO, children who have never heard the language of education outside of school suffer from learning, repeat the classroom and drop out of school before the third grade. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers, the last thing I want to mention is the hunger strikes that our political prisoners in the prison today occupy Turkey's agenda. These friends have not gone on a hunger strike in connection with the need for themselves or prisons to have more comfortable conditions. They have laid out their lives with only one option for the conflict in Turkey and the blood flow to stop. Their demands are defence and primary language education, removing the isolation of Abdullah Ocalan and launching the dialogue and negotiation process. These demands are human, conscientious and peaceful demands. Mr. President, dear MPs, before all of you, I address the Prime Minister. The hunger strike that entered your 50th day today has entered a very dangerous process. The situation is urgent and critical. Therefore, these demands must be met at once before the internal news of death comes. Because, in the event of positive response to these demands, the Kurdish problem will be opened up to the democratic, political, peaceful solution, allowing the years of suffering, the deaths caused by conflict to increase no further. Taking the necessary steps in this matter will make Turkey breathe. We insist that the Kurdish problem cannot be solved by military and security policies. These security policies are policies that will eventually separate the people from each other. Therefore, the process of dialogue and negotiation must be carried out immediately. Yes, today Syria is crawling with the Middle East, especially. So we say that Turkey should now extend the hand of friendship to the Kurds. This hand of friendship will serve as a true and honorable union of the peoples, as a brotherhood, and as a true actor in the Middle East of Turkey. We sincerely believe in those thoughts that we've highlighted. The policies that will be developed within these thoughts that we have expressed will bring us peace that our people and our country long for. With these feelings, I salute you all again with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0003par0018	Thank you. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Manisa MP Free Private, who wants to talk about the problems of the Manisa worker. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0004par0023	Mr. President, I'm here to address the issues of the Manisa, Manisal. Manisa is a working city, Manisa is a farmer's town, and Manisa is a retired city. Manisa is an employee of the recent Unions Act, which is no longer safe from the past. In Manisa, workers who work at the door under the pressure of thousands of unemployed workers work unsecuredly in fear of reminiscing about the union's union, and in the slightest attempt to organize, they are at the door. Manisa farmer's in over his head. When we, the Manisa MPs, took part in various events in Manisa, we always told the Plan Budget Commission that this should be expressed as a joint statement by the Manisa MPs and to seek solutions. Recently, we were all present at the Plan Budget Commission for Agriculture Minister Mehdi Eker. I tried to explain how miserable olivery was in Manisa. Eight years ago, we said that the price of the olive sold for two liras had dropped to 70 cents, and that we would raise both hands for the farmer's improvement, as promised there as the Manisa MPs, but the promises made at Manisa have been forgotten. While we were expressing these things, our Manisa MP, Mr. Ugur Aydemir, was bragging about saving Manisa's tobacconist from the tobacco ordeal. It was to finish the tobacconist he called saving him from his tobacco ordeal. When we went to the mountain villages of Manisa, an elderly pilgrim uncle asked me: "My son, what was the price of the 70-alarm altitude?," I said, "My uncle, did you used to drink?" No, my father was a pilgrim. I didn't break into our house or touch my lips. He said. Then what did I tell you about the price of 70? He said: "In the past, Tekel would give tobacco the same price as 70 euros [70 euros]. Today, between 45 lira and 50 liras [70 liras], but a kilo of tobacco is bought from $10, $7 lira, and $8 lira. Here's what the Manisa lawmakers call the issue of producing tobacco. You're done with the issue that we call the issue. When another Manisa MP opened the grape market in Manisa, he said: There will be $3.5 this year, and everyone will laugh. On that day, he received applause, and we even said: "What if it doesn't?" If it doesn't, the farmer will come and find me.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0005par0027	Sing the grape, too.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0004par0028	I asked Mehdi Eker, and I said: "There is a promise of $3.5 of Manisa MPs." The grapeman in the interest clamps sells his grapes for $2.50 just to get rid of the loan shark. Do you think you can do something about it, vouch for that? We promised the olives a bonus. We said 50 cents on the grain olive, but they promised 20 cents, 30 cents on the dollar. Are you a guarantor for that? He said, "We'll look at it in the years of progress." We're facing problems like this. Tomorrow is November 10th, the 74th year of our Ancestor's departure. See what the Farmer's March at the village institutes is saying in their village institutes, in the study of village institutes, who value his Turkish farmer, and for Turkish enlightenment, to start with the villages. We sow, sow, reap, trust and beyond, Everyone's every penny to their purses. We gathered together to the voice of the chief farmer, and to the voice of Ataturk, To the agricultural front to fight the land. And that long, beautiful march ends like this: We are the root of the national entity, We are the real owner, the master of the land, the peasant. From where Ataturk made the peasant the master of the nation, we are at a point where we bring the peasant to the places where we owe each one of them, where he has seized the land of foreign banks for interest. And in his 74th year, we will be before him again on the 10th of November, tomorrow, when our Ancestor departs from us. We survived October 29th with great shame. Tomorrow, November 10th. Millions will walk again toward the Ata. On October 29th, those who tried to prevent it with a secret sentence, who sprayed pepper spray on those who wanted to walk in front of the Ancestors, didn't dare publish a secret sentence, because fear is of no use, and we find it, and we bring it before our citizens. This time, they wrote an open sentence, but they said this time: "Walk without noise or pollution." Masters, if we didn't ask permission from you on October 29th, and ask you how to remember Ataturk, how to take care of the republic, not to make noise, but to cast your shadow, and we know how to remember our Atah. My respects, my love.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0006par0044	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. ▪ There are presentations of the presidency to the General Assembly. There's a resignation notice from the commission, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning after what I've seen from the Plan and Budget Commission, which I'm a member of. I demand that it be done. 09. 11. 2012 It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 28 prisoners and one special sergeant and one private officer were killed as a result of operations organised simultaneously between December 19 and December 22, 2000, called "Back to Life." Hundreds of people were injured as a result of the operation, and dozens of people were injured. According to forensic data, there have been decisions in some prisons that the use of chemical weapons/bombs during the operation has been reported, while the right to life has been violated. Thus, the series of events mentioned above has yet to be fully revealed. The judicial process is also slow, and the concern for the statute of limitations is expressed by the public as to the events that resulted in the killing or maiming of prisoners and prisoners that should be provided by the state. We propose and propose the opening of Parliamentary Research under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution to investigate and uncover the facts. A series of operations were carried out between December 19 and December 22, 2000 to transport prisoners and prisoners to Type F Prisons. Prior to this operation, a delegation of intellectuals to reach an agreement between prisoners and prisoners and the government held a series of talks, including the day of the operation. Operations are carried out simultaneously in 20 prisons while negotiations continue and are approaching the settlement point. The operations were carried out by thousands of soldiers, riot squads and guards. More than 20,000 gas bombs have been used and 28 prisoners and two soldiers named Mustafa Happy have also lost their lives in operations, including Specialist Sergeant Nurettin Kurt and Çanakkale Closed Prison in Umraniye Closed Prison. Government officials of the period announced their deaths as "the killing of each other of the prisoners." However, forensic reports indicate that there was no sign of gunfire from the wards and that most of the deaths were carried out due to gas bombs, chemical bombs, or bullets fired from deadly levels. In Bayrampaşa Prison, six women are said to have been killed for the reasons above. In particular, female prisoners have been completely burned by unknown chemical gases. Chiefinur Tezgel and two women named Seyhan Dogan have not even been identified, and their families have been given charred bodies small enough to fit in a bag. In the ongoing process, the number of people who lost their lives in the act of death has been known to rise to over 100 dead, over 600 cripples. The case has been brought to trial in various cities and dates. Shortly after the incident, a lawsuit was filed against the prisoners and resulted in a lack of surveillance. Several cases have been filed by the relatives of the prisoners. Some cases result in acquittal or minor sentences, while some prisons, such as Bayrampaşa and Umraniye, are still under trial. It has been noted from the documents requested by the court committee to provide false records for operations against Bayrampaşa Prison. In the trial against the Ministry of Interior and Justice of the family of Murat Dokudçi, who killed soldiers in Bayrampaşa Prison, İstanbul 2. The administrative court has sentenced him to $109 billion in fines on the grounds that his right of life has been violated. The most basic right of life was to be eliminated by the state under the protection of the state, and the operations were personally handled by the ministries, even though they were run by senior bureaucrats, only privates could be brought to trial. For example, only 40 soldiers are on trial in the case against Bayrampaşa Prison. As a result of public pressure and the demands of the court committee, the name of the petty officer has been sent to court. In order to uncover the truth about the events described above, Parliamental research must be opened under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Charter. [[Malatya]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Antalya]] 7) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 8) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 16) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Edirne]] [[Denizli]] [[İzmir]] [[Tekirdağ]] 22) Aydın Agha Ayadın [[İstanbul]] 23) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As of our country's geographical location, almost all of it is 1. It's a scientific reality with a degree of earthquake. The 9.200 earthquakes in the last 110 years have been concrete evidence of this situation. There are earthquakes almost every day in our country. In terms of the quality of the building, it is evident that earthquakes above 5 are devastating. The terrible size of our country's lives and property losses is evident, considering that earthquakes can occur every 22 days, 6-6.9 earthquakes every 8 months, 7-7.9 earthquakes average every 40 months. In all earthquakes so far, experts share a common view of loss of life and property, the impregnation of earthquakes and rotten buildings. Neither the central government nor the local governments have fulfilled their responsibilities in this regard is a painful reality. And what's even worse is that for years, the public has been collecting "Depress Taxes" and not knowing where they're being spent and for what purpose. The government does not make a logical and reliable statement on this matter. Once again, with the latest Van earthquake, the truth has shown itself irrefutablely. The account of lost lives is not given or given by those who run our country. 1- Where, for what purpose, are earthquake taxes collected so far? 2- What have central administration and local governments done and what do they intend to do so far, as a precaution for earthquakes? 3- How will the problems of unplanned urbanization, migration and rapid population growth be prevented, or is it still being acted by the logic of "people want rice, not plans"? 4- When exactly will construction and control institutions be operational? 5- As it has been so far, won't the help gathered after the Van earthquake be brought to its goal? 6- How much the same and cash was collected after the Van earthquake, and where was it used? What criteria have been considered in the distribution of help? 7-What public buildings were damaged or destroyed in the Van earthquake? Which public buildings are not used or destroyed because it's still damaged? 8- What has been done, and what is planned, so that some 400,000 people who migrated from Van can rebuild their lives? 9- What is planned to encourage migratings to return to Van? 10- How is the government receiving the treatment of the Van people after the earthquake? 11-kids who can't go to school and 100. How will young people studying at Year's University continue their studies? 12- How will the economy at Van be revived that was destroyed and even destroyed with the earthquake? How will people get their jobs back? 13- How are our people who can't get paid, whose business is destroyed, who have lost all their savings in the earthquake, going to pay off their debts, loans? Our country's 1st. The facts that have arisen once again with the level earthquake belt and the Van earthquake offer the answers to the questions above: the restructuring of the province of Van and the opening of Parliamentary Research under the Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to inform our High Assembly and our people on the issues of the Supreme Assembly on the issues of the social and economic lives of the people, on the basis of what is being done and what is not being done and what is being done. [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İzmir]] [[Malatya]] 6) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[Erzincan]] 11) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Aydın]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[40s.]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] 23) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Mughle]] 26) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Gaziantep]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's instructions, under 14/6/1935, the Executive Directorate for Electrical Affairs (EİE), established under Law 2819, is among the most radical institutions in our country. The EIE is a responsible institution to measure the country's hydraulics, wind, solar, geothermal, biomass and other renewable energy sources, and to prepare feasibility and model implementation projects, and to continue its energy efficiency studies. Based on the law issued ahead of the election, the law on the rule of law issued on November 2, 2011, on the rule of law, 662, and on the form of the Department of Electrical Affairs. Unlawful and irregular transactions; The Law on Powers No. 6223 does not give the Council of Ministers the authority to change the Law and the EİE law on the Office and its duties of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 3154. The EIE was issued on November 2, 2011, a decree issued on the two provisions of the law, including a change in the EIE's establishment law with the KHK/657. The same date was closed by KHK/662. A day after KHK/662, however, an EIE regulation was issued. KHK/662 and the EIE's duties regarding hydraulics have been transferred to the Department of State Water Affairs (DSI) of the Forest and Water Ministry. With the same decree, the Department of Renewable Energy is established in the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. The closed ad has been dedicated to the EIE's transfer to the DSI and to this newly established theory of all other tasks. It's still in conflict with which institution to perform these tasks. In accordance with Article 6223, there have been a violation of careers and lithic assignments. The most obvious example is that KHK/662 and EIE have succeeded in the test and have been assigned to the Departmental Directors Research Committee. The investigator's additional indicator, additional payment, and special service are very low, and those assigned from the branch office to the investigative staff suffer financial losses. ' Not only have the branch managers' rights been taken away, they've been cut off from their future salary increases. In particular, the loss of financial rights of technical-rooted branch managers is invaluable. According to KHK/662 decree, the personnel to transfer the DSI are made from the EIE's job description. There are discrepancies in the number of jobs and personnel to be transferred by action. KHK/662's temporary 10. According to the article EİE, "a contract of employees under the Law of State Officers No.657 and employees under the Law of Work, dated 22/5/2003 and under the Article 4857, were transferred to Dsi (the Dsi) at the end of the sixth month following the publication of this clause." According to this substance, space has been created for as long as six months. This has led to many uncertainties in public administration. This is against the fundamental principles of law and international contracts. Closed EIE's transfer to the DSI is under the name of Renewable Energy General Directorate. It is not known how many tenders have been made by the EIE (EIE) and the Renewable Energy General Directorate (KHK/662) established since then, with the assumption that the EİE would be closed by the power code dated May 3, 2011, so it must be revealed how much damage has been done to the public. Renewable Energy Directorate Energy Specialist, Specialist, Investigator and Investigator Assistant staffs have been assigned to KHK/662. From here, it's clear that all of this new construction is intended for staffing. We propose and propose that Parliamentary Research be opened under Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Constitution, for the reasons we count above and for administrative administration to be conducted in the legal structure. 13.12.2011 1) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Malatya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] [[Sinop]] [[İstanbul]] 9) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 10) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 14) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 15) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Adana]] 17) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Erzincan]] [[Mughle]] 21) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İzmir]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There's a motion for a gene. The motion was published today and distributed to the members. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We present our citizens, producers, at a time when the real sector's competitiveness has brought significant burdens to the family budgets, when the real sector's competitiveness has increased, during the last months, on behalf of the Gensorian Movement Group, which has not been able to create a healthy energy market, unable to provide the necessary measures for energy supply security, unable to ensure the translucent, efficient and efficient operating operations of the OSCEs, about Mr. Taner Yildiz, the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, on behalf of the 98th and 99th and 99th Committee of the Constitution, according to the 106th Articles of TBM. In such an environment, where the impacts and concerns of Turkish economic policies are concentrated, the growing cost of the real sector, the creation of solution packages to the loss of competitiveness, the loss of employment, the recovery of debt crisis that our citizens have fallen into, should take measures to protect their purchasing power, but today, as a result of energy policies imposed by the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, our citizens and production sector have been left to pay an unfair and high price in electricity and natural gas. In essence, behind increases reflected in natural gas and electricity energy for citizens, energy policies are also implemented that need to be discussed. It is the government's responsibility to use electricity, gas, oil and oil products in sufficient, quality, continuous, low-cost and environmentally compatible with consumers. It should at least bring a "political responsibility" to make the citizen pay for the measures needed to be taken in advance and not to be taken in time. The government has not created a high-content energy market, which is financially strong, stable and competitive. No independent regulation or control has been provided in the energy market. As a result, our people could not use energy cheaply and our firms' international competitiveness has weakened. Sources and measures to ensure supply security in energy have not been diversified, and measures to ensure supply security in natural gas are not taken on time, according to law 5015. So consumers were faced with shock increases. Our country's external dependence on primary energy consumption was 68.3% by the end of 2002, while it increased to 72.3%. As a result, our dependence on natural gas has continued to increase, and the country's treasure has been forced to overpay billions of dollars abroad. The formula for natural gas from the Russian Federation has been changed, and with a new government contract, the price for our country and for Russia has been opened. The irregular appointments in the BIL have been tolerated, and the general council has not been held for long. The negativity of the information's business agreement has been tolerated. The BOTAS board of directors has passed the authority to the CII board, provided it protects the interests of BIL and BOTAS, preventing it from signing the agreement. The board of directors has also handed over the authority to the director-in-chief in accordance with the demands requested by the BOTAS board. The general manager signed the document. This document, signed (2011 December), is clearly in violation of the interests of Turkey. Bag number 6353 has been put into the law and the capital's gas market value has been increased, but this increase has been made to be collected from the citizens. At this time when the AKP is in power, lowering electricity prices and increasing efficiency, ensuring electricity energy supply security and demand and improving supply quality, reducing technical losses in the distribution sector to the averages of OECD countries and preventing fugitives, increasing the level of rights in distribution and improving the collection of electricity bills, providing the necessary renovation and enlargement investments without any obligation to public and market sensitivity. At this time, our country in the energy sector has not been freed from its "access guarantees of purchase" clamp. During this period, the Ministry and energy OSCEs were inefficiently managed, required public investments were not enough and timely. Energy KCEs have been forced to go from banks to commercial loan use in order to pay off their expired debts. TETAS, however, failed to pay the price for its guaranteed energy and had to pay the companies a tardiness penalty under contract. The ministry and the various projects and tenders of its subsidiaries have failed to compete with wrong, biased practices, has suffered public damage, has not been collected at the time of public pay. As a result of all these policies, there was no healthy and efficient energy market. Our citizens have been obliged to pay the bill for the additional cost of the minister and the ministry's wrong policies. After all, today our citizens face shock increases before winter, while our country's "Producing sector" faces the threat of a global financial crisis reflected in the real sector. Mr. Taner Yildiz is the political director of these Energy Politics, Minister of Energy and Resources. In this regard, the Minister's political responsibility for implementing these policies has been given the recommendation of the Gensor. It has been submitted to your information, which includes the day of the meeting on whether or not the client will be taken on the agenda, and will then be submitted to your approval. The National Party of Action has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. 09.11.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Friday, 9:11.2012 (today), I would like to submit our group's following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. Our parliamentary research proposal, which we gave 10 October 2012 and 6285 points to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, "in order to determine measures which should be taken by investigating the problems of substance abuse and trafficking, particularly drug trafficking," has been proposed to be read in the General Assembly on Friday (now) and held in today's Union of talks. Reşat Right, Slap MP who wants to speak in favor of the nationalist Action Party group proposal
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0007par0299	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the research motion we've made regarding the problems of substance abuse and trafficking, particularly drugs. I salute the High Council. In our country, drug addiction is increasing day by day. The age of drug use has become common to almost 11 or elementary school students. As in the world, there will be substance abuse and addiction at the top of the most important problems in our country in the coming years. The emergence of a new world order in the 21st century and the change of expectations of social life in society, the distortions in the family structure reveal this situation. Nor is it right to view this problem as simply the country's own problem. There has been a common problem with societies all over the world, and an emergency response has begun. The subject has become a human problem. In our country, this problem is growing day by day, and it concerns the elderly, the young, the poor, the rich, the men, the women, all the members of its community. So substance abuse continues to increase heavily. Of course, I'd like to say that we have to consider this especially a -- I mean, substance abuse as a disease because it's an addictive disease. Therefore, the Ministry of Health should be responsible in the first degree. So the Ministry of Health must take serious steps to resolve this problem by caring about such an important matter in a very serious way. But interestingly, the Ministry of Health has left this to the centers of what we call alcohol and substance abuse, which he has established, in various provinces, and in the centers there, he has referred it to several doctors, physicians, or colleagues who work there, which is interesting. Of course, the second one, especially the families, is in charge of the Ministry of the Family. Our children suffer the most from this job... our families suffer, our families suffer, especially the people who are addicted to it, especially the ones who are addicted to it. So the Ministry of Family should care a lot about this job. But it's interesting, and unfortunately, the Family Department thinks they're dealing with three or five statements to the press or pamphlets or three or five pamphlets. Dear friends, that's not enough. The third important is the Ministry of National Education, who should be responsible. See, the Ministry of National Education, unfortunately, has not given a very serious, successful test in this regard. So the Ministry of National Education, where is the use of cigarettes, alcohol, and drugs that we call the use of material in all schools? At what rate do our children use them? Sadly, they have not been evaluated. See, there is a project in our country, especially in Europe, called the ESPAD Project, which has been implemented, the European Youths' Matter Use Evaluation Project. This project, unfortunately, has not been implemented by the Ministry of National Education since 2003. We've been bringing this up for a long time. ▪ Come and see how our children are doing. What is the use of drugs, cigarettes, alcohol, and drugs in our country? What can we do about it? In the European Union criteria, why is it not done in our country when all European Union countries are doing research? Unfortunately, the Ministry of Education doesn't provide us with satisfying information. So at this point, my dear friends, we are persistently obliged to do so. So the fight against drugs should not only be about certain people or about a certain society, but about the main tasks of the Ministry of National Education. But the Ministry of National Education didn't seem to care about it, and I'm still sorry to say that there hasn't been the slightest improvement in it, despite the three periods I've asked, including the last term, of various procedural times, or our extracurricular conversations. So the Department of National Education doesn't care about our children. I mean, schools have drug sales all over the place right now. At the moment, all major cities, especially large cities, have serious problems with the use of substance, and the hearts of families are burning. But the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education, the bureaucrats' hearts, unfortunately, are not burning, and they are not taking the necessary step. Of course, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is the fourth in charge. The Home Office is trying to run it through TUBIM. Congrats on all the friends who worked at TUBIM. Indeed, there is a small unit in the security department that is currently doing almost the work of four ministries alone, where the colleagues who work in that unit are doing all they can to make the most of their efforts to fight drugs, and we are sincerely congratulating them, but it's not enough. So the four ministries have to find a solution, a solution, in a common way. Congressmans, according to UN data, nearly 200 million people in the world are using drugs. The use of 150 million people is seen to be heavily used in the first place, including amphetamines and drugs, cocaine, heroin. In the United States, where the statistics of drug use are determined to be accurate, around 20,000 people of drug use appear to die every year. We see similar situations in the European Union countries. Young people are most likely to use these substances that undermine society's structure, destroy people's goals and hopes. When we look at this, we see that the density is 15 to 20 years old. But in our country, especially in the East and Southeast region, we also see that this age, which is about 60 years old, is about the age of starting drugs; it's interesting. Even in countries of the European Union, people over thirty-five have not begun, and people over sixty in our country can become addicted to drugs. However, the fact is, no family can imagine their child smoking pot, injecting heroin into his veins, or taking ecstasy pills. However, studies have shown that there is a considerable distance between young people's drug use and their family's knowledge of it. In research on the substance use and profile conducted by the Turkish Psychological Association in our country, there are 7.681 subjects in a 15-year-old four-year-old group; 27.4 per cent use regular cigarettes -- the first written 14th time -- 9.2 per cent say that at least 2.9 per cent of their friends are using drugs. Also conducted in seven different high schools in Ankara, high school students say they smoke 12.2 per cent, 23.5 per cent alcohol, 2.3 per cent drugs at least once in life. However, recent studies show that smoking in our country is very common. Especially in the female population, there's a serious rise in the male population. Also, the use of alcohol, drugs, and stimulants in society is growing, unfortunately. In particular, there are significant increases in the legal use of substances in homes, and thinners are at the top of them. Kids who use thinners probably use them in our homes more than the streets. All the substances called drugs destroy all the organs of the body to begin with from the brain and central nervous system, making the body unstable, making it unstable by taking effect of mind and will, taking away from normal life. We must not forget that the weight of his material size is also the greatest enemy of health and brain and mental health. You can see a very intelligent, hardworking, successful child in spiritual distress and chaos, which means that our children can face a picture where the mind and mind fail. In fact, it's interesting that in a study in our country, about 2/3 of drug addicts have been found to have committed crimes. See, it's a very serious statistic, performed on 24/2/2008; 94,277 prisoners, prisoners, about 13.280 of them are in prison for drug crimes. So when we look at the proportion of drug crimes -- I think it's going up now -- we see that it's almost 15 percent of society, and it's going on rapidly accelerating. Honourable MPs, of course, there's a lot to be said about this. Look, for example, there's a lot of money being made in our country right now because of the drugs. The militants of the PKK's terrorist organization are making over $10 billion. I'm saying roughly because this is heroin, which we call organic drugs, or other drugs from one of our country's lines, that's what we call it, because the PKK terrorist organization, in places where synthetic drugs have passed, is also getting more than $10 billion as a source of income. So here you're going to be dealing with crime, fighting these criminals, especially dealing with substance abuse, and basically dealing with terrorism. Therefore, co-operation in this matter must be co-operated with all other countries, and these financial resources in the hands of terrorist organisations must also be drained of funds. Of course, in this direction, see, our House has established a research commission in past history. Our very dear friends have worked on our parliamentary research commission. Dear Master, we thank Mr. Necdet Ünuvar Hajji. He's already the sole authority of that research commission, alone, and I know he's currently working as the former head of that commission. I thank him, thank you. Even though he's really got a lot going for him... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0008par0317	It's not on our app, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0007par0318	I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0008par0320	Thank you. Have a nice day. Necdet Ünüvar wants to take a stand against the nationalist Movement Party group proposal.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0009par0324	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Substance addiction is a very important problem. My dear colleague, Mr. Right, has just explained the matter in very true terms. Thank you. Of course, beyond the drug, there is an issue that should be considered in a broad perspective, such as smoking, alcohol, and volatile substances, and there is legal, social, medical, rehabilitation, trafficking, terrorism. From time to time, they can be found in different ways. We can also face some really heartbreaking stories in society. Recently, on the first page of Zaman newspaper, in the rural Diyarbakir, where my dear friends gave him a motion to investigate -- there were areas that had been planted with cannabis, but soon we saw news that security forces had destroyed the areas that had been planted. Of course, it's not just about people who use this substance in society, who are addicted to matter, who have a habit of breaking health, peace, family life. It has a very serious economic dimension, and we know that it has reached about $300 billion in volumes in the world around billions of dollars. So we need to evaluate the issue from both supply and demand point, so when we call it supply, the event is related to the size of smuggling, the Security Directorate, Customs Undersecretary, the Coast Guard Command, the General Command of the gendarmes, the main security forces and the units related to the capture of this smuggling, and I'm happy to say that our security forces are catching up with more drugs every year than 27 countries of the European Union over the last four years. In fact, our security forces prevent not only Turkish people from poisoning Turkish youth, but also world youth poisoning, but Turkey is on a transit route. According to UN Crime Office data, 95 per cent of natural drugs are produced in Afghanistan. Although it has declined in recent years, that ratio still stands, and its most attractive route is on its route to Turkey; so it is moving through Turkey towards the Balkans and the west of Turkey. Thus, Turkey is at grave risk in this sense. There are no drugs produced in Turkey, although this is not how the research proposal is expressed, but I can say that synthetic drugs such as captagon, ecstasy, were also an important route towards the south of Turkey and east of Turkey. Of course, I actually support this motion. That's a very good suggestion. You could say that a commission like that would have to be set up. But it's a coincidence -- Mr. Right partially expressed -- that the motion for the establishment of this commission begins with the purpose of determining the measures that need to be taken by investigating the problems of substance abuse and trafficking, particularly drug use. However, along with Mr. Right, we did a very good job with 16 of our MPs. We worked for three months, then we extended another month. Then, in the report phase, we saw Mr. Right's very serious contributions, financial and spiritual support, and in 2008, we conducted a 486 - page Commission study. I'm reading the name of the Commission: a Commission called the Council on Drug Instigation -- and it will remember this Commission with the aim of establishing measures that need to be taken under investigation -- and in fact, I sent it to our entire 550 parliamentary community. And we've done such good work. Maybe it's the first time the research commissions have done this, with 40 pages of color printing, Turkish and English versions, we've sent them to the world.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0010par0330	He didn't come to us.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0009par0331	I'll send it to you again, Mr. President. We've sent it to all 550 of our deputies. A 40-page package of proposals, and after this suggestion -- Mr. Right will remember again -- I, the Chief of Police, the Undersecretary of Family and Social Policy, came together from time to time with the Undersecretary of Health, and I tried to be a follower of the matter. It's about the research commissions... and I'd like to take this opportunity to express them to the esteemed General Assembly. We followed him, and I think about a year and a half ago, Mr. Right, and the president of the TUBIM himself came to brief him, and our Minister, Mr. Right, expressed his satisfaction. We've been working really hard and we've raised problems. So, what's the consummation of a new commission like this? I suppose there's a dilemma, dear friends: so such a Commission worked. Basically, the Commission's work also found makeup. For example, during these commissions, Law 4207 was changed, and smoking was banned in closed environments. Last year, especially children under the age of 18 had a ban on the consumption of bongs and other products. A very important legal arrangement has been made regarding volatile substances -- particularly in educational schools -- which are very important -- regarding water-based volatile materials. But Congress may not have been aware of the consequences of these commissions in order. Perhaps it was necessary to establish such a research commission. So, because we're doing this Commission study -- Mr. President, Mr. Right -- the reason I'm against it is because this study was founded and worked by the same name, and that study was done.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0011par0334	Mr. President, our goal is to bring up the Law.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0012par0335	To bring attention to the agenda.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0009par0336	Of course. Here I have done a brief study of research commissions, dear friends: 117 research commissions have been established in the history of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, about 20 in the last ten years, during the period of the EC PARTI. I've also served on six of these commissions, as presidents, as vice presidents, as well as as six of them, so I've had a lot of experience. So I'd like to do a word or two about the research commissions and end my time like that. The research commissions are doing a really valuable work. 16 are now 17; 17 MPs, about 20 experts, each research commission is holding at least 30 sessions, each session lasts two hours, and 60 hours of work, some commissions are going abroad, for example, some of the lucky children go to three countries and study there, and each of them does at least 500 pages of reports. Some of them do briefs like that on the commissions, and they do follow up on it. Well, why don't these studies find too many make-ups? There's a simple lack, and I think it's very useful for our Parliament to take care of it: there's a very good example in England, the research commissions are working -- just like in Turkey -- and they deliver it to the House of Commons, and then they send it to the government. Within 60 days, the government publishes or publishes a vision, and it is reported to both parliamentarians in this Internet environment. But in Turkey, after the study was done, it was given to Parliament Speaker, published, sent to relevant institutions, but the relevant institutions are not obliged to do or inform anything. In fact, if we remove this simple detail, what could happen in Turkey? - within a reasonable period, six months, every six months, if the government or the relevant institution informs the Parliament or our Parliamentary presidency, which is actually a number of studies being carried out. For example, I'd like to tell you that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy... which the Minister has called me for two hours of briefing -- and he's set a road map, so he's set a road map for both prevention and social services, treatment and rehab and supply, but the Parliament doesn't know about this road map. However, if Parliament were to be informed of this, perhaps there would be no need for a new commission to be established in a matter that has been reworked like this. So, while I agree with the spirit of this commission's motion to set up, I regret to say that I am against the idea that it would be a waste of time to redo a study, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0013par0342	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0014par0343	Please allow me to make a point to make it into the records. This is our...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0013par0344	Why don't you sit down and we'll get the system open? Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0014par0346	Mr. President, thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0013par0347	You're welcome.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0014par0348	Thank you, Mr. Hajji. So the goal of this advisory board proposal for the agenda of these research proposals is really to draw the attention of the government, state institutions and society through our General Assembly -- the Grand Assembly of Turkey -- and the Grand Assembly of Turkey. Otherwise, the commission is, of course, considered a purpose in the statement of the matter, but our main goal is to draw the public's attention to it. There's something I have to say now, Master. I wish he'd said that too. In society, especially for our children, our little children, our school children are growing increasingly dependent on substance abuse; their age is dropping, their number is increasing. This is important to all of us. I think it's important to get the public's attention, to get the government's attention, to get the authorities' attention, and to see the results as you put them. In this regard, we've proposed a group of consultants like this. We talk about it for 40 minutes, we attract the attention of society, we discuss people's agenda, that's the point. Thank you very much, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0015par0352	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0016par0353	Mr. President, thank you very much. Now, I couldn't explain it because I didn't have enough time. I'm also aware that it's my job to do a study like this. There are reports from this Commission report, its summary, even from TUBIM (We have published it for a year). I consider it a duty to provide all of those reports and to send them to all of our MPs. At least the work done there, and even the work done by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, I will ask them to inform Parliament, and I will inform you as President of that Commission, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0017par0356	Thank you. In favor of the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal, Yildıray Sapan is an Antalya MP.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0018par0358	Mr. President, I have received a pledge in favor of the nationalist Action Party group proposal. I hereby salute your High Council. Congressmans, drugs are Turkey's most important problem in the present and future, and even the biggest problem in the world, which is more important to me than terrorism. Because you can fight terrorism, you can create policies to eliminate terrorism, you can destroy the terrorist, but it's not that easy to destroy drugs, to restore drug addicts. How a drug addict suffers from withdrawal, and what he can do to find it, we can understand from the mouth of a drug addict: I'm afraid if I know he's in the belly of a pregnant person, I'll cut him out; that's how valuable he is to me. So as of today, drug use is between eight and sixty-five years old. I said eight years old, you didn't hear wrong; I know that, I know that from my territory. To point out, a while ago, I entered that neighborhood in my tourism district, Antalya, to get the attention of the public, the government, and the police, of how easily drugs can be acquired. I've entered the drug-dealing area. The drug-dealing area is not in the remotest corners of Antalya, as it is thought. It's the same in Istanbul, and it's the same here. The drug center in my district is the governorship, which is exactly two kilometers to the center of the city, so you can walk, you can get it on foot, you can get it very comfortable, they can get it, they can use it, they can sell it, they can buy it, etc. Drugs are now being sold around schools, my friends. Drugs are currently being sold around elementary schools, at the moment... a parent has arrived, a father has come, painfully, and I would like to share it with you, he said: ▪ My son is 20 years old. He started doing drugs when he was 12 years old. I can't have anything new in the house anymore, I can't even hang my jacket, because he buys and sells my jacket and supplies drugs for himself. Do you believe that they have surrounded me before I've even entered the street? What do you want? According to them, they named it. That's gonna go on the record now. 12, 13, 20, 25 - year - olds immediately surround you: What do you want? Cheese or stone? Heroin becomes cheese, crack becomes cocaine, and he tried to sell it so recklessly, so that everyone could buy it, so that they could increase the market with a very small amount of money. And I brought this to the House, you all know, to get the public's attention. The view I saw there was amazing. I got the coke from an 80-year-old, an old lady, and again -- what's being described in that neighborhood, what I've seen -- eight-year-old, yeah, eight-year-old hands packing heroin, friends. That's got to stop. He's 8 years old, and he's addicted to packing heroin. Not one but two... laws are not deterrent, the existing laws are not deterrent, but the highest is ten years, and that's two thirds of which you sleep with the current laws and date them. The addicts are probably leaving without treatment because they don't have a proper treatment center, but for some reason, they're giving up treatment, and they're going back to their old world. Divorce increases drug use. Troubles in social life - unemployment, lack of money, poverty - keep this trouble from getting away from people, unfortunately, problems in social life. According to U.N. reports, friends, 180 million people are currently on drugs in the world. The situation in Turkey is not pleasant either. Friends, who were sentenced to drugs in 2004, have now found 25,000. What does that mean? That's more or less a five-fold increase. Now, we don't know how many drugs are used in Turkey, how many people are using them, but right now in prison, 25,400 people can give us more or less the number of people who are punished for drug use, selling, and so on. Dear friends, of course, not only that, but the stunning one. Drugrelated deaths in Turkey are more than terrorist deaths. Let me give you an example. In 2007, 153 people died of drugs, 146 died of terrorism. In 2009, the death toll was 153 of drug users, those who died of terrorism, and those who were killed were 80. In 2010, 150 people died of drugs and 106 people died of terrorism. So I think drugs are more important than terrorism. Dear friends, this death in Istanbul is in the 77th place; Antalya is in the 2nd place; Antalya is in the 2nd place; Antalya is in the 9, Adana is in the 8th place. These counties also enter the top four cities of most drug use. The source is the Police Department. So, depending on this, how are our punishments? Our punishments are not deterrent at all, my friends. I've proposed a law on this. Hopefully, this bill will be accepted by the government, by the commission. For deterrents, prison sentences are particularly mandatory. The supply of drugs is essential, especially for young children, young children, and the quality of treatment and social benefits. Dear friends, I'll give you another example from my territory. The money that is now returned as of today in Oliveville concerning drugs is 5 trillion liras. This 5 trillion isn't just about the sale, guys. There are people who are attracted to this money, who are derailed. In that regard, I'd like to bring this to your attention. As soon as possible, hopefully, this Parliament will make new regulations on drugs. I hereby offer you all love and respect.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0019par0371	Thank you. Nurdan Şanlı, Ankara MP who wants to take a stand against the nationalist Movement Party group proposal.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0020par0374	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the National Movement Party to investigate the problems of substance abuse and trafficking and to take the necessary precautions, and I hereby salute the General Assembly. Yes, it's really important to deal with drug use and addiction and to take the necessary precautions, especially in terms of protecting our children. It is also important to do what we can together. Mr. Congressman, our Dear Hodja Necdet has just handed over to you in detail the work, the research commission, and the work being done there. So, I'm saying that we need to focus on this -- yes, I agree with that -- in a delicate way, and that we should all be together in order to take the necessary precautions. However, due to the ongoing discussion of the Metropolitan Law Bill 338, we have stated that we are against this motion made by the National Party for Action. Once again, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0021par0379	Thank you, Mr. Glorious.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0022par0380	Mr. President, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0023par0381	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit01spe0021par0382	I will submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes: those who agree... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0021par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 19th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of the National Movement Party's proposal, given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... those who don't accept... There's been a disagreement between the clerks, so we'll vote electronically... I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, there are sufficient decisions, the nationalist Movement Party group proposal has not been accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: 09.11.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Friday, 09,11,2012 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 03,02,2012, it has been suggested that the Council of Assembly of Turkey's Parliament be read to the Grand National Assembly on the basis of the measures which should be taken by investigating the reasons for gender discrimination in the fields and in social areas (232 rows), before other motions being submitted to the information of the General Assembly. The Republican People's Party has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal, Sena Kaleli, the Bursa MP.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0024par0020	Mr. President, there is a fact known throughout history. The first history of exploitation and oppression began with the work department based on gender discrimination and eventually became the exploitation and oppression of the woman's labor. In fact, the Anatolian woman has dealt with production and trade throughout history and has contributed to her own domestic production, at least to her own family economy. Since Hayme Ana, women have maintained the tradition of Abyssinics; they have always served the culture of contributing to solidarity culture, economics, production; and they have continued to live the tradition of the Abyssmism at every place since Anatolia. However, the woman's turnout to the labor force continued to decline more and more since she was at the time. In the Ottomans, the woman continues to work recklessly by trading candles, and if she wasn't being complained, unfortunately, we wouldn't be able to put her on the record. This great social problem, the perspective of the woman, the mental decline, unfortunately, has continued to grow. Today, one of the four women who work for wages or wages works at the same time as an informel. Yes, our women's participation in the economy, politics, will contribute to the world and Turkey's development of peace and economics, but, unfortunately, every woman is considered incompetent until proven incompetent. These unfortunate women can't make their own thrones, and unfortunately, men decide their fortunes. To look at the CEDAW reports, the reports of the World Economic Forum, the reports on women's development, the development of employment, the development of women, the development index of gender development based on gender development, unfortunately, the World Economic Forum's Gender Dynasty Report has shown that we are always in the background of the equality of women and men in global reports. It's almost a mental setback and the fact that this issue is not accepted as a social problem, that women and men are not considered equal, that we perceive this equality as an equal opportunity, and unfortunately our women are being detained today from contributing to development, economic development, due to gender-blind policies that leave gender-blind jobs above these women at home. She was replaced by family, replaced by equality. Yes, as we look at the EU progression report, there are also some improvements in social protection -- there are some improvements of 86 percent -- unfortunately, we need to make efforts for women workers, especially off the record. No progress has been made in fighting discrimination. Unfortunately, not all types of discrimination covered by the EU acquish have been dealt with. There are still discrimination regarding sexual identity and orientation. Yeah, we still haven't developed our understanding of equality and gender equality in line with the EU acquish. Unfortunately, not much progress has been made regarding the equality of opportunity for men and women. As there is a risk of discrimination in hiring, since the complaint mechanism cannot be developed, the risk increases by twofold, and our goal of joining 35 per cent employment is announced as 28 per cent, which is actually 23 per cent, 24 per cent. Yes, our transition into working life, our working life, unfortunately, has not been balanced between our working life and our family life. In fact, there is an understanding that those who sow a nursery reap a nursing home. With their understanding, there are some who suggest that it is not even right to have a day care center for a woman to deliver her child. In honor killings, domestic violence and forced marriages, there is still no sufficient effort for children's marriages, I'm afraid. Yes, and yet, in the days when the chief public inspector and his assistants will be elected, there will be a test for us in which our women, who have developed and also believed in their expertise, and who have a democratic, compromiser identity, will be involved in this auditing institution. Congressmans, when a new arrangement comes up -- as a woman -- naturally I worry about how much women and disabled persons and sexual orientation differences will be involved in this arrangement, because I am concerned that in the male dominant plane, the drafts and proposals created without consulting male parliamentarians will always ignore women, knowing or not. Yes, and the entire city law that is being discussed will be a concrete example of that. This bill will shoot women in the first place, shoot disabled people in the first place, in terms of personnel to hand over. First of all, who will this bill serve, and why? What's the catch, what's the take? We don't have the right data on these. This bill was not only intended for political goals. The Law on Disaster Risk was carried out as an arrangement in accordance with the Law on Disaster Risk and Law 2/B, including rant and economic rank. The temporary item in the draft is 1, which regulates liquidation and division. What measures will be taken or taken regarding the problems facing women and disabled workers during this period? In the interim Article 1 (d) joke, the institution was born in terms of the transfer of personnel as part of this joke before the date of the transfer and cannot be held responsible for any debts that should be paid in the date of the transfer. The provisions for severance are reserved. What will be the status of the creditors here? Is it considered to be people who are already underfunded, who are in debt from the city municipalities that will be closed down? On the one hand, it's being handed over to the other, and it's being called, on the other hand, it's not being held accountable. This joke has serious problems. The next (e) joke predicts that, as an address for any hesitations, shows the State Staff Chairmanship. If the personnel to be handed over are in the collective contract of employment, they will remain under the same provisions, but those who do not have a collective contract of employment will sign an individual contract of employment. So let me ask you: how many employees work in closed municipalities and villages, and how much of them are included in the collective contract of employment? So the transition to an individual contract of employment is subject to all kinds of abuse and pleasure in terms of job security. With these thoughts, I propose that my motion to investigate be accepted. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0025par0034	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal. Kemalettin Aydın is a member of the Silver House.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0026par0037	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party to investigate the Parliament for the prevention of professional and social discrimination, which will ensure that Mr. Sena Kaleli will ensure that she is equal in all parts of society and in all areas. As a member of a government that acknowledges women's participation in the labour force as an important element of sustainable development, I would like to share with you in a few brief sentences the government has been working on improving the position of women's employment and women's women in society, especially since it has been in power. Firstly, the establishment of the Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission, which has not been established in the Grand National Assembly of the Republic of Turkey, which has often been a problem for us in the European Union talks, has been in the hands of our government, and I have been working on the equality of women and men as a member of this Commission for over four years. This is one of the biggest areas in which the Ministry of Family and Social Policy has been established, and in the work of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, it is primarily the promotion of social status, high employment and employment, and the role of a parent to their children as part of the family. From the moment our Ministry of Family and Social Policy is established, projects are being carried out by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, which he has made first with the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, on February 10, 2012, by ISKUR, to establish the equality of social gender modules based on the opening of labour-force training courses, and in this regard, to increase employment for our women. Again, our Ministry of Family and Social Policy, on February 10, 2012, with the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, has been supported to provide positive discrimination from KOSGEB, which will give women a significant number of positives, in line with the protocol for boosting women's entrepreneurial activities. Perhaps many of you will hear what we're saying today, perhaps today, after hearing this, that you yourself will withdraw the motion for Congress research, especially as part of the Project on Supporting Women's Enterprises through business centers of our Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, in İstanbul Pendik, Nevşehir Hacıbektaştas, Kütahya and Çorum provinces, where women are being supported by the state for both their work and all their expenses. The similar ISSEM Project was sent to our province by the Ministry of Science and Industry for about 6.5 million euros in the District of Silverhane, where I am a deputy, and in the work sent as a grant, it is also required to show positive discrimination against the woman. In the work of KOSGEB, you also follow the non-projects -- women are one step ahead of men in support and credit support of many projects, and they are one step ahead of male operators, and they are more than percentages. Again, SODES projects are being conducted in the Southeast Anatolian region and Eastern Anatolian regions run by our Ministry of Development, and many projects are being carried out to ensure social development in line with social support projects. It is also a small province of these projects, but each year, with about 5 trillion old coins, it also receives 5 trillion free support in the province of Silverhouse, and many female NGOs in the provinces of East Anatolia and Southeast Anatolia are benefiting from this project. Development agencies have been established, and projects supported by development agencies have been carefully supported by women content and projects to increase women's social development and employment. Again, in the public education centers of our National Ministry of Education, in order to increase the women's employment and social life, the vocational courses continue quite high, and in the job-secure courses by ISKUR as well, and in job-secured coverage, the priority for the woman's employment has been made, and with all these studies, 35 per cent of the country will become a country which is planned for 2023 goals of our government, which, hopefully, will be moving rapidly towards European standards in 2015. Is that all he had left? In the Constitutional vote, which the political party, which submitted this parliamentary research motion, said no, the article on positive discrimination on the woman was placed in the Constitution. I would also like to share with you what a paradox is about those who said no on that day, asking for increased employment today. Today, in our Constitution, women are given positive discrimination. However, in terms of violence against women, there are women's shelters, which are also new to the City Code, which we are discussing these days. Again, a contract with the European Union on preventing violence against women -- November 24th -- was first signed at the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Again, as a woman, we all see those days as a man, where women have a major problem with pregnancy and childbirth, both breast leaves and postpartum leave have increased by twice as much. Again, from breastfeeding to ten weeks' unemployment allowance. Again, it's for women to be supported by a micro-creation of eighty-one provinces sent to their governorates. Again, not only in this area, but in 100 per cent of the woman's political role in the EC PARTI ruling and in the recent two-term parliamentary arithmetic, this has been involved, and today the EC PARTY has led 100 per cent of women to take part in politics. In parallel, the other political parties also took this as a good example. That also gives us pleasure. Now, let's say the last few sentences regarding this Parliamentary investigation are, in particular, the requests for parliamentary research, given when there is no study of it, and the fact that it is on the agenda of Turkey is a great truth, a great meaning. It's one thing to talk about what we're talking about here today, Mr. Kaleli, but if Mr. Sedef Little and Mr. Gürkut had discussed this with Acar, the Women's Equality Commission, which our friends have been involved in, has been working for two months, and has established the subcommittee of women's employment in every area in particular and solution proposals. In this subcommittee, a subcommittee has been established, which includes two MPs from CHP -- again, as part of the Mesut Dedeoglu of the MP's arithmetic -- and Parliament will continue its work for three months in this sense. In short, during the period of our government, intensive work has been carried out on improving the social presence of the woman, the equality of opportunities, the removal of her losses and shortcomings, and the commissions and the ministry have been established in line with these studies. It would also be a pleasure for us to be able to provide the time planned by 2015-2016, above 35 per cent of the republic's employment in 2023, with joint protocols with other ministries led by Mr. Fatma Şahin. Ideally, I agree with all efforts to improve women's employment, social status, increase their political presence. I applaud all requests freely, but I applaud all of these studies within the Parliament's agenda, that they are being carried out, that important work is being done within the administration's administration, that they are being carried out in 2002, that women's employment is being delivered to 29 per cent in the 26 per cent today, especially in the years of the crisis, and that social security premiums are being paid by unemployment funds, and that women's employment has been increased significantly, and that there has been an increase in the world of women and children, and that Turkish women's employment has not been a victim here in the 2008-2009 global crisis, and that in terms of a significant amount of increased policy, I agreeing with you, in terms of the government's ongoing research is being carried out.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0027par0056	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Mesut Dedeoğlu and Kahramanmarash MP.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0028par0059	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Party Party Group on the recommendation of the Republican People's Party. I hereby salute the grand jury. The changing order of society and its circumstances force her to take part in the business world. Women's tasks, until the Industrial Revolution, have been determined to be a household or manual work, while later there have been significant changes in women's place in society. Especially since the 1980s, women have become more active in economic and social areas in Turkey. Although not as well as in Western countries, the woman should demonstrate her abilities not only as an enforcer of a certain profession or as an employee of the field, but also as an entrepreneur. Studies on the woman's participation in the labour force have been supported by small business initiatives, which have been viewed as a positive contribution to economic growth by the 1980s. According to the research conducted, the women's businesses have been very successful in some criteria. Working in this context, especially women who are not involved in economic activities in rural areas should be allowed to join the labour force with small financing incentives. Women's participation in the labour force is very low in Turkey. The only reason for this is for men to earn a living at home. With understanding, it is too late for women to participate in work. In our country, access to education remains a major problem for girls. In particular, the lack of access to education and teaching in rural areas, despite all efforts, causes women to be deprived of both education and employment. According to the results of 2000, Turkey's total population was 73,722,988. 50.2 per cent of the total population are men, 49.8 per cent women, so the male population and the female population are almost identical. According to our population, the distribution of men and women was in this way, while in our country, women's participation in the labor force remained at very low levels. Women in Turkey have a turnout in the labour force, about one-third of the male's participation in the labour force. Women's employment is being discussed not only in our country today, but all over the world. In our country, women's participation in the labour force differs between the city and the countryside. Women's participation in the labor force is lower in cities. Women's participation in the labour force in rural areas is around 34 per cent because they work as free family workers in agriculture. When she comes from the countryside to the city, she withdraws from the labour market for reasons such as family pressure and tries to maintain her life as a housewife. Hence, the data on women's employment shows that there will be an increase in the number of women who do not join the labour force because they are busy with household chores. According to data from the Turkish Statistical Institution in October 2011, the number of around 11.9 million homewives increased by 150,000 people in November to 12.1 million, so women's unemployment rates -- where they should be working -- began to fall back. In November, the figures show that women also have lower unemployment rates, depending on the rate of employment in November, but in general, women have a very high unemployment rate. Mr. President, the distribution of high-profile staffs in public administration according to gender suggests that 66 of every 100 officers are men and 34 of them are women. According to this, there are 1,48,000 men and women officers in the state at 592,923. Women in our country, unfortunately, have been unable to find their place in high-level tasks, which we regret to inform you. In addition to family pressure, his marriage and having children prevent her from joining the labor force. The fact that she joined the labor force, their progress in the institution and in the mission, is crucial to their careers. Career is a process that continues from the first day of labor to retirement. The woman's family responsibilities cause her to take a break from the labor force, causing serious problems in her career. We have to make laws on these matters. Tourism, advertising, education, textile fields are the first prominent profession groups in our country that women work with most intensively. Today, women are in every industry, little by little, able to function. A woman should be encouraged to contribute to the economy. Mr. President, good lawmakers, it is not possible to pass here, especially without referring to increased violence against women. False policies imposed by the government in economic and social areas have caused major injuries in many parts of society. Unfortunately, today, the Turkish family structure, which has set an example for the entire world, we must regret to say that violence against the woman has increased, unfortunately, and it continues to increase. As violence against women is seen physically in our country, economic, social, verbal, psychological, and sexual, it can also occur in different ways. A study of domestic violence against women has been conducted by the Women's Status General Directorate, interviewing 24,000 people in 51 counties. According to these results, 39 per cent of women across Turkey have been exposed to physical violence at least once in their lives, 15 per cent to sexual violence, 23 per cent to economic violence, 44 per cent to emotional and psychological violence. In addition, 56% of women who are undergraduate are subjected to violence, while high school graduates and upper secondary school graduates continue to be subjected to violence. In families where the level of prosperity has dropped, the woman's violence rate is 53 per cent. The reasons why she was exposed to violence simply because she was a woman have been researched by many institutions in our country. Social arrangements and women's guesthouses that have been carried out so far have not been able to prevent violence against women. Violence against a woman can turn into murders in some families after a certain period of time. Women's murders have been growing very violently in our country in the last ten years. On newspapers and television screens, we often see reports of the government's failure to protect it again! It makes you sadder that even women who want state protection are murdered. Therefore, government programmes must weigh in on prosperity-enhancing activities and laws in their economic and social policies. We are obliged to avoid regulations and practices that will negatively affect society and family structure and cause tomorrow's anxiety. After all, to prevent violence, education must be provided first, then economic relief. On this occasion, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0029par0077	Thank you. Republican People's Party group proposal...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0030par0079	Mr. President, my name has been mentioned by Mr. Speaker, AKP Speaker. I'd like a word in that regard.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0031par0080	I told him you were a commissioner.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0030par0081	Gurkut Acar is a witness.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0031par0082	I said he's a member of the mission.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0030par0083	Your friends who worked without asking you about it. There's been a misunderstanding here, sir. I'd like to say something about that, please. In a personal way...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0032par0084	Because of the bullying, I promise you two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0030par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friend, AKP Speaker Kemalettin Aydın, has said my name and said that Republican People's Party Speaker Sena Kaleli, who submitted this research motion, would have known that if he had asked Gürkut Acar. He would have known that this had been prepared and that commission had been set up. I made a promise for him. I salute you all. Indeed, we established subcommittee commissions last week -- as a member of the Women's Opportunity Equality Commission. One of them is the subcommittee for female employment, correct. However, the date of this motion of ours is older, so commissions have been established, true, but older. However, I'd like to say a few more things here, if I may. Now, what we have to say as a political party may be hurtful, but international reports have been released in Turkey about the woman's condition. One is the European Union assessment report, one is the 2012 Global Gender Offensive Report, published by the World Economic Forum (WEF). We have to evaluate these objective reports. The inequality is an increasing event in Turkey. This is an objective phenomenon. I'm not saying there's no work here. We, the Republican People's Party, support every study of the Women's Opportunity Equality Commission to ensure that women are equal. And we don't underestimate the work done, but let's look at the reports: Turkey is the 124th place between 135 countries in the equality of women and men, my dear friends. We're both in the study and we're in the 124th place in 135 countries. In the 2006 report, when it was the 105th ranking between 115 countries... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...in the 124th row. My dear friends, in economic life such as this, there is also a drop from 106 to 129, and there is a decline in education. So, what we're doing here, we're seeing that the work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey does not reflect on material life, and we're regretting it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0033par0096	Thank you. Mr. Yüksel, you have a request for a statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0034par0099	Sir, it's about a minute of conversation.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0033par0100	No, not for a minute. You have a request, if you have something to say, go ahead.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0034par0104	Yeah, okay, sorry. Zechariah Karaman and Ismail Karahan, one of the founders of the White Holdings, are now on trial for the largest corruption case in history. With the Lapis Education Organization, after the tenders they received in İstanbul Metropolitan City, they have been bidding on the tenders to get the tenders in İzmir Metropolitan Municipality with the Active Education Organization, and as you pay attention to the organised work done by ESHOT, the companies that have ended with the organization- 3.317 drivers are trying to restore the subcontractorship at ESHOT (ESELMAN) by offering lower prices than the company. While the government should remove subcontractorship, it is likely trying to restore subcontractorship to Izmir Metropolitan Municipality, where subcontractorship is removed through close companies. By the way, Smyrna, Izmir Metropolitan Municipality...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0033par0107	Thank you. Republican People's Party MP Hasip Kaplan Şırnak MP has asked about the group proposal.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0035par0112	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Republican People's Party's motion is about gender discrimination. Of course, our party's point of view on such a matter is very clear and clear. It is the legislature's duty to do effective work to oppose this discrimination, not just in employment and social areas, but in political and all areas. We benefit from such a study because after the assessments of international organisations around the world, from this development index to other areas, from the violence of women to the social security area, and from the latest European Union progress report, Turkey is clearly not well off. The Peace and Democracy Party, which applies 50 percent women's quota in parliament, shows that 14 women's mayors from 17 women's mayors are from our party, and that our number of deputies in parliament as a member of parliament also shows that the EC PARTI will need to eat more bread to reach our borders. We also don't think that a conservative understanding that predicts a woman to have three children and stay at home will solve this problem. For him, a very serious study of discrimination should be carried out, which is possible with Parliament research. We support that, we say that such an investigation should be done. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I made a few important points here yesterday. If the government doesn't complete its commitments by this evening, if it doesn't take concrete steps to end its commitments, unfortunately, in the critical phase of the hunger strike on its 59th day, which began with 707 people and found the 10,000 in prisons, our party cannot remain silent about these demands and possible political demands that are so justified, in all our dialogues, in all our discussions, in our efforts, and in all our efforts to end this quickly, we are now entering the fourth day, and despite its fourth day, we do not have anything other than the preparation of the government's main language defense. This is a situation that should concern us, us, all of us. This is a very serious situation, a grave situation, a test of humanity and conscience. Our party against him, of course, tomorrow, 11 o'clock. Our co-chairs will make very, very important statements in Diyarbakır. I would like to remind you that we cannot remain silent in this situation, that neither our people, nor our party, nor anyone who calls themselves human can remain silent here, and the government is responsible for that. The Prime Minister has gone to Indonesia, and the Prime Minister is bringing up the death penalty from Indonesia, when he should have made some efforts to resolve this issue. Really, when we think about it, you can't help asking what's the point. AK PARTY, 2002, Mr. Gul was Prime Minister of No.6. It's a government that signed the removal of the death penalty with the Lu Protocol. Then Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan arrived, and 13 No. Protocol lu was signed, and number 13 was signed in 2006. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan signed the Lu Protocol. The Prime Minister, who put contracts above the law in Article 90 of the Constitution, is also the EC PARTI government. So, what's going on now, out of the blue, the Prime Minister has been creating an artificial agenda for two days, bringing up the execution over and over again? Just yesterday, in his statement, during the Parliamentary Presidency of the Council of Europe, Mr. Sergeantoglu explained in his statements how important it is to lift the death penalty and support it. Now, why would he want to bring up a problem that was lifted in the 21st century after the 20th century? We have reason to ask the Prime Minister: Do you want to threaten the Kurds by bringing the death penalty? I mean, your purpose is... in all riots, the supreme courts have been sentenced to death. You have hanged Sheikh Sait, you have hanged Seyit Reza, you have hanged some... you have tried to silence the Kurds for a hundred years, you have tried to discipline them. By God, the Kurdish people whom we could discipline in the 21st century did not stand before you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0036par0117	Let them discipline themselves!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0035par0118	Men who try to behave are disciplined, that's the way it is. So the process, the life force it. In the 21st century, there is no sense of humor. You're going to stand up, you're going to talk about universal law, you're going to talk about democracy, you're going to say that you're judging September 12th coupgers... the last death penalty of this House, the final decision of September 12th military coup, the decision of the Kenan Universe, and the signatures of lawmakers at that time. Now, do you want to continue the death penalty of the coupgers? If you try to get away from this continuum, we remind you that thousands of people in your time have already been murdered, their rights are being violated. Over 500 children were already killed during your time. Look, he was murdered. It's in the inventory of the Human Rights Association, the MaZLUMDER. How many of our citizens have been killed in the street, in Izmir, here and there, because they didn't just stop by the hit-dur-dur law? The right of life is already being violated. In this country, where the execution has already been carried out, it is not understandable to take the death penalty back into Turkey's agenda, based on the massacre of a madman in Norway. This is a constitutional debate. It is clear to bring up a subject of the Constitutional debate that the presidential system has been raised at such a time: by covering up the fact that our people who have completed their 60th day on the hunger strike today, the 59th day of their hunger strike, have performed the largest civil disobedience act in the world, you will stand up on one side -- the legitimate demands of the hunger strike -- as well as the constitutional right to an attorney's hearing, which is a legal right in international contracts, you will be able to violate any other law, which is the most essential requirement of the attorney-client hearing, which is most just, you will violate the law in the most legal field, you will not be able to do a crime, you will not be able to do anything about the prosecution, you will still be able to violate the constitution, and you will still be able to violate the law, which is the law, which is the law, which is the most basic condition of the law, which is the law. It's a dangerous mindset to continue committing crimes. It hurts society, it increases tension, it increases conflict, it can't be in anyone's best interests. To be in power does not grant the privilege of committing crimes; to a prime minister who is in power, I break the law, I uphold the law I want, I don't apply the law I don't want. This illegality, illegality, is unacceptable. The CPS has decisions, the European Union has decisions. In light of all of this, we've been preventing a lawyer's interview for a year and a half, and we've been urging 707 people to think, not once again, but a million more, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, to think, We're really warning you that there's no pain consequences, so let's work this out together. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0037par0123	Thank you. I will submit the Republican People's Party Group's proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0038par0127	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0037par0128	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Koç, Mr. Kesimoğlu, Mr. Akar, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Acar, Mr. Karaahmetoglu, Mr. Öner, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Ediboğlu, Mr. Yüksel, Mr. Fırat, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Kaleli. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Seyit Ayyüpoğlu, Şanlıurfa? Here. Mehmet Erdem, Aydın? Here. Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Under the decision taken, we move on to the part of the agenda with the draft and proposals of the Law, Other Affairs from the Commission. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the negotiations of the Plan and Budget Commission Report, with the 3rd ranked Financial Rentals, Factoring and Financial Companies Act. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will continue negotiations with İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Gorıkulu and 20 MPs; Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba and 22 MPs; Balıkesir MP Ayşe Nedret Akova. The Commission and the Government? He's in position.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0039par0158	Mr. President, sir, as the National Movement Party, we have continued to express our views on how much damage this Metropolitan Law will do to our unitary state structure. However, here, in front of history and the nation, in this matter, not in the party debate, but in the interest of your individual responsibilities, Mr. President, you, Mr. President of the Commission, at least in the light of these concerns, will stop leading this General Assembly meeting and you will stop representing the Commission. We refer it to your conscientious responsibility. This isn't about the party. We all have to fight together. There are no solutions to making decisions behind closed doors by pointing fingers at consciences. In that respect, Mr. President, in the presence of history and the public, stop conducting such a General Assembly meeting that will lead to a dangerous process. Mr. Commissioner, with all your years of state experience and your conscience, I would like you to stop representing the Commission at a meeting where such a law is discussed. If he was the Home Secretary, I'd tell him that. In that respect, I invite you to fulfill your individual responsibilities in front of history and the nation.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0037par0161	There are two copies on the 13th article, so I'm going to read them and process them. (x) 338 S. Numbered Basmaz 6/11/2012 has been added to the 16th Union Record. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 13th draft of the current 338 rows. After the words of Law No. 5216 in the Article, ▪ 6. We propose and propose that the word "matter" be removed from the text. Birgül Ayman Güler Muharrem Ik Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu Ali Serindağ Celal Dinçer Namik Havutça Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "A draft of İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanıkulu and 20 MPs; Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba and 22 MPs; Balıkesir MP Ayşe Nedret Akova; Aydın MP Ali Uzırmak; Tekirdağ MP Bült Belen; İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal; Malatya MP Öznur Çukukuk and 14 MPs's Law Commission Report in Similar Malatya, and the Interior Commission Report of the 338th Order of the draft of the draft in question; Aydın MP Ali Longırmak; Tekirdağ MP Ali Bült Belen; İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal; Malatya MP Öznur Çık and 14 MPs's Law Propos on the same estate. We propose that the Article be removed from the Bill text. Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Mehmet Erdoğan Enver Erdem Alim Işım Sadir Durmaz Yusef Halaçoğlu Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0040par0180	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0037par0181	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0041par0182	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0037par0183	Mr. Vural, if you'd like a word on the motion...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0042par0184	Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0037par0185	Yusef Halaçoğlu, Kayseri MP, please. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0043par0188	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, they made some historical mistakes yesterday. A deputy came up here, he spoke of Saladin Ayyubi, he spoke of Kurdishism and so on. Now, people can't tell which nation they're from, what race they're from. They come from a lineage created by God, and for that, everyone must respect it. This country is a balance of empires, and therefore there are people of other generations, other than the Turks, who live in this empire. It's a condition, of course. But I would like to point out that by saying that Saladdin Eyyubi is Kurd, they are actually being racist. This should also be subject to a very serious criticism as to what historical information they base it on. First of all, Ibn Attar, the famous historian of the Arabs, writes this as the Turkish Sultanate of this region, after the Fatimites. Let me just say the name of the brothers of Saladin Ayyubi, and I don't need to say anything else. One of them is the name of one of the brothers of Tug Tekin, who was named after the sword of Islam; the other brother's name is, whose name is, Melikul Adil, the fair spirit; the other one is the name of the king of the king; the other one is the name of the king of the king. Therefore, the Kurdish manager, the Turkish manager, won't even have to discuss it after that. His uncle's name is Mühmut Tokuş. Now, let's put all this aside, but here's more important: Yesterday you were just imitating federative systems from the West, and there's Georgia in the East. You all know what happened to that Ossetya, in Georgia, when the pressure of Russia forced Georgia out of Ossetia. Russia, on the other hand, assessed Russia as if it were a democratic country by showing Russia in a federative system, but Russia, which occupied all Turkish provinces after 1878, established a state system that brought different republics together, under the name of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. As for China, East Turkistan invaded and created an autonomous region under the name Uygur Autonomous Region, but accepted the entire official language and education language in Chinese. But beyond that, there are countries in the West that can be given a very serious example. Belgium, for example. Belgium, called the cradle of democracy, is the center of the European Union, from three federative regions, and until yesterday, it has reached the point of dissolution, which is already cracking. Also, if you think about Yugoslavia, the Yugoslav nation, which has brought different nations together, has been united as the president of Tito. But as a result, today, Yugoslavia is divided into ten kinds of parts. Also, we said Czechoslovakia. What was the result of Czechoslovakia? The Czech Republic was divided under the name of the Republic of Slovenia. From the eastern provinces, wherever you give it, the bottom line is that federative systems, in fact, are a system that forces different ideas, different cultures, and governs it with the presidential system. The United States of America is what we call the United States, a federative structure made up of the merger of fifty-two states, yes, and for him, although we say it is not actually run by the state system of America; it is governed by the state system of America, and each of them is a state. For that, we call it the United States of America. At the same time, Federal Germany is a federal system, but the princehoods in Germany were torn apart until 1848, and they differed separately. But in 1848 the German Union was established and the Federal Government of Germany was established and led by the presidency. Thus, the presidential system is often dependent on the federal structure. Now, you bring in a law like this, you lock it into the city boundaries that make it a city state, you put it under control, and then you want the full presidential system, you put the same presidential system in front of the structure in America. After all, with a law that will make education the governor's elected governor, you will settle the matter. But we don't trust you anyway. You know why we don't? Everything you say is wrong, there are mistakes, there are deceptions. I'll continue this in my next speech. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0044par0202	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0045par0204	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0044par0205	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0046par0208	President, no, take a break.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0044par0209	There's been a disagreement between the clerks. Yeah, I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0047par0212	It hasn't opened, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0048par0213	One minute's up, Mayor. One minute's up.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0049par0214	Did you think they'd show up?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0050par0215	What are you waiting for? Why didn't you start it? Yeah, you take too many sides. You're taking sides! Why didn't you put it in right away?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0051par0217	It's not roll call.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0052par0218	You see, there was no majority here.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0051par0219	Mr. President, are we doing roll call?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0053par0220	Mr. President, is this roll call?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0054par0221	Roll call...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0051par0222	Mr. President, this has been opened, it has to be opened, it has to be voted on.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0054par0223	Roll call...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0051par0224	Mr. President, that's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0054par0225	Mr. President, there were just 30 seconds, you've moved it back up to 59. How's that?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0055par0226	Mr. Vural, the tech team that opened the lockdown was a mistake. We had it shut down, again...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0054par0227	Tell me something, General Kurula.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0055par0228	I'm telling you, go ahead.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0054par0229	Don't destroy yourself whenever you want to...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0055par0230	Mr. Vural, the General Assembly has informed me that the disposing has been opened. No one's moving on their own here. Please...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0054par0231	Sir? What do you say?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0055par0232	The General Assembly told me. I'm telling you, no one's moving on their own here. Please...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0054par0233	You're doing it to yourself...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0055par0234	No, we're not acting on our own. Please...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0054par0235	You change it, you turn it off, you do it.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0055par0236	No, we're not acting on our own, we're following procedure.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0054par0237	For God's sake!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0056par0238	Where is it? Where is it? Where is it?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0055par0239	I mean, not like this, please...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0054par0240	Don't be rude!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0055par0241	Is the presidency going to act under your pressure?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0054par0242	Run it properly!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0055par0243	And you two, speak properly!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0054par0244	Run it properly!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0055par0245	I'm running it properly!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0054par0246	Run it properly!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0055par0247	Look at the way you're acting, it doesn't suit you; it doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0057par0248	It suits you, it suits you! Mr. President, it suits you perfectly!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0054par0249	It suits you!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0055par0251	Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 13th draft of the current 338 rows. After the words of Law No. 5216 in the Article, ▪ 6. We propose and propose that the word "matter" be removed from the text. Birgül Ayman Güler (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0058par0257	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0055par0258	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0059par0259	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0055par0260	Emre Bridgelü, Tekirdağ MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0060par0262	Mr. President, with this bill, the law envisions closing 1,023 municipalities from 29 major city municipalities, the removal of 16,082 villages' corporate personalities, and the closure of 509 municipalities that have fallen below 2,000, and, despite all these closures, the law is called the AKP (AKP). Now, you're going to call a law "reform" and you're going to divide the existing structure, you're going to eliminate it, you're going to remove it without consulting or asking anyone. Now, that's what separates the village from the village from the neighborhood. They have the authority, the corporate personality, the imposition of their own names, their own assets, their own budgets, and more importantly, the village chief has the ability to represent the village. We understand that 16,082 villages will no longer be represented by this law because the neighborhood head is not a person with the concept of representing his neighborhood. What will the lack of representation result? Now, a village with 300 populations, 400 populations, 200 populations, will be crushed by 10,000, 50,000 populations, 100,000 populations, under high population centers, miles from the center, without a representative, without a corporate personality. We are always told of the practice in Turkey's southeastern İstanbul area, but the value of the local lawmakers, Istanbul's rural population is less than one per cent; the rural population is now 5-6 per cent; today, the 40 per cent, the 50 per cent people, the 55-percent rural populations, the Konya, Balıkesir, Tekirdağ, Urbana, Tripoli, Istanbul and Kopeli. It's so simple and so simple that it can be perceived, but it's possible to get the real purpose out of here anyway. The purpose of this law is not to serve. An understanding that thinks of serving does not consider the same fate as Ionya (Icona) and İstanbul (Islamic) and Urbana (Koceli) and Koceli (Koceli). What's the point? The goal is to simply lift the village's corporate personality and covet the village's relocations. By removing the corporate personality of the village and turning it into a neighborhood, putting all the people who live in villages in position to pay property taxes, taking environmental cleaning taxes from these people. Changing the form of taxation, turning it from simple procedure to real procedure, collecting high levels of taxes. By watering his animal, watering his garden, making the water he uses a network of water, collecting taxes from these citizens. It's so obvious that it's not about service. Now, along with the village's corporate personalities, 29 major city municipalities are closed in 1,023 districts. Dear lawmakers, how did these 1,023 cities get built? A large number of them became a municipality with a referendum in that town, asking the people of the village, while a large number of them were in the country. The polls have been set up, the public has been asked, the people have said: "My village is a municipality." Now, the AKP, which has kept the people's will in its language and has kept democracy in its language, is destroying 1,023 municipalities that the public has decided by this law. We say, "Do a referendum, ask the people." No, they say we lift it. We clearly see that a government that has no respect for the will of the people, no respect for democracy, sees itself as superior to the people, removes municipalities in the city without asking. Now, let's be very clear: the AKP has no faith in democracy, the AKP has no faith in the people, has no faith in the will of the people; it's cut off from the people, sees itself higher than the people. If he had respect for the will of the people, he would have set up those crates in the cities where the referendum was established. I, once again, salute the General Assembly, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0061par0268	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0062par0269	The decision is sufficient, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit02spe0063par0270	Yes, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... those who don't accept... Congressmans, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit03spe0063par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 19th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Tekirdağ MP Emre Bridgelı and his friends on the 13th article of the Law Bill 338 rows was not enough. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on Article 14: I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 14th draft of the current 338 rows. Article 5393 replaced by Article 8. Article 4. We offer and propose that the 50,000 figures in his joke be replaced in the form of "2,000 (with only 2,000)." Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu Muharrem İlgül Ayman Güler Namik Havutça Celal Dinçer Ali Serindağ Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "A draft of İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanıkulu and 20 MPs; Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba and 22 MPs, Balıkesir MP Ayşe Nedret Akova; Aydın MP Ali Uzırmak; Tekirdağ MP Bült Belen; İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal; Malatya MP Öznur Çukukuk and 14 MPs's Law Commission Report"; Şıkesir MP Ayşe Nedret Akova; Aydın MP Ali Uzırmak; 338th drafting the draft of the draft of the draft in question. We propose that the clause be changed as follows. Mehmet Erdoğan Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Enver Erdem A scholar's Light Is Hard to Stop Nevzat Don't Fear It has been changed to ▪50,000 (P.S.) in the fourth joke of Article 5393 of the City Code (P.S.) dated (3/7/2005) and in the fourth chapter of Article 8 of the City Law. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit03spe0064par0025	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit03spe0063par0026	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit03spe0065par0027	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit03spe0063par0028	Yusef Halaçoğlu, Kayseri MP who has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit03spe0066par0030	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute you. At the end of my speech, I had just finished saying that we don't trust what you do. I want to tell you why we don't trust you. Now, there's a number of things you've done by hiding from both the National Assembly and from the nation. That makes you not believable. And we're forced to consider this law within that framework. For example, the Prime Minister had accused you of not meeting with Oslo or Abdullah Ocalan, and even of dishonor, but he later stated that he had made the decision and the order of the Oslo talks himself, and even said, "If necessary, we can renegotiate." Why did you keep it until then? The matter of the spherical: the sphere is set up at the radar station. Well, why did you hide it under the name NATO, and then, six months later, it was only a transfer to NATO? For what reason did you do it in the sphere, and why was it hidden that 150 American soldiers went there? If the Americans hadn't explained it, you wouldn't have said it. Regarding foreign soldiers entering the country, the Constitution should have been granted permission from the Grand National Assembly under Article 72, but it was not granted. Like this, for example, why didn't you inform the nation about the Israeli planes flying over Hatay or Cyprus and leave our questions unanswered? I mean, there are things like this that you hide so differently, how are we supposed to believe in the law that you've uncovered today? You're saying there: we're giving administrative and financial autonomy to a mayor who will cover the entire province. What will the governor do? In two days' time, will you pass the law and call the governor a chosen person? Or I'll leave that aside... except that, in your previous draft, you used a phrase like opening educational institutions, and now you've removed it. How do we know you're not going to bring back the issue of opening educational institutions with a law? How are we supposed to believe that? Everything you do is in this frame. Look, Mr. Home Secretary, why did you rebuild the town, the city, the town of Olive Union, the town of which the Greek commander came and set up as headquarters during the National War, and why did Mr. Secretary sign this? Besides, you've opened fifty-one churches. You know, this has gone beyond just historical repairs. You even built a church near the mosque, and on the other side. I left him behind, when he couldn't even make the appointment of the mufti in West Thrace, you, who hired him, appointed him a Metropolitan, and appointed them to Isparta, even though there were no Christian populations there, to carry him. Can you tell me why in the 100th year of our loss yesterday, in the 100th year of our loss, in the 100th year of our loss, in Athens, in Thessaloniki, in the 100th year of our failure, you cannot even open a mosque and allow a Friday prayer to be performed in return? Now, why do you do these churches in secret? You do these things in secret when you're throwing out the Metropolitan. Why can't you say that out loud? Because when you do that, it means you're having some trouble with your own psychology, with some of your own. The fact that you do it this way, that you don't do it openly, shows that you, in fact, are not democratic. Your, in fact, actions like this bring up a subject that can be described as running water under the surface. So, in this law that you've made about the city's municipality, you're going to put the rangers and the soldiers who live there -- the soldiers who came out of there, the soldiers who came out of those villages -- into the city, and you're going to put pressure on them. Which village ranger will remain, then, in the direction of these great cities or under them, how will they serve? On the other hand, again, depending on this, you're doing something in major cities that eliminates an understanding called culture. There used to be a village culture. From all our literature, all the records of the villagers and the village will be recorded, and the word of my village will be removed. Many of our cultural values associated with this will be eliminated. When you turn it into a neighborhood, as cosmopolitans, everyone will go sit down. But in a village, the village's own relatives and frame can only be brought there and placed. Go on, can you buy land from a village? You can't because they won't. But now when you turn it into a neighborhood, you'll create a strange community. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit03spe0067par0041	Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit03spe0068par0043	Mr. President, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit03spe0067par0044	All in favor...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit03spe0069par0045	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit03spe0067par0046	I'll call. Those who don't agree... Congressmans, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0067par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 19th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The second vote issued by Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu and his friends on Article 14 of Law Bill 338 was not enough. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 14th draft of the current 338 rows. Article 5393 replaced by Article 8. Article 4. We offer and propose that the 50,000 figures in his joke be replaced in the form of "2,000 (with only 2,000)." Mehmet S. Kesımoğlu (Kırklareli) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0070par0012	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0067par0013	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0071par0014	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0067par0015	Ali Sarıbaş, Çanakkale, who wants word on the motion. Mr. Yellowhead, if you'd like to sign, your signature wasn't in the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0072par0019	Mr. President, most valuable MPs, first of all, as you know, it's been seventy-four years since we sent the great Ataturk to eternity. As always, he remembers me with love and longing, with the same faith and determination that I am the tireless guardian of his works, bowing down in longing and gratitude in his spiritual presence, offering my love and respect. Dear lawmakers, in the essence of this law, they came quickly, as in other laws, as quickly as they did. Look, it's very interesting, and I especially want to point out that the population of the city -- I repeat, in order to form a new town by way of separation in the municipality of the city -- must not fall below 100,000 people in a new location and not be less than 50,000 people in a new town. The city of Belde... but what does the law say? It says: "It is strictly forbidden to be found in the cities of all the cities, which are founded in the cities of the capital. "
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0073par0021	The county can be established.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0072par0022	It says that only the district can be established. Now, a draft of the law that was brought so quickly, so quickly, I'd like to draw your attention to this preparation here. I mean, is that an understanding? How can we bring such a conflicting, unprepared text of the law here without reading each other? Dear friends, that's why I made this motion here. So, just to get your attention, I'm saying in this motion, let's take it for 2 grand. If it's against the essence of the law, if it's full of contradictions, if there's contradictions, then -- the remaining piece -- let's move it to 2,000 populations, so that none of the local municipalities will be shut down, and there will be 2,000 populations left in the entire city, the Metropolitan Law. So let's read it first. Where do we want to go so fast, so quickly? Dear lawmakers, in our country today with this law that we want to adopt... the capital city law number 5216 has already given the capital population of the cities over 750 thousand. We support that. In fact, if you want, we can make the whole of Turkey a city. Come. Why are you taking 750,000 populations, according to what criteria, based on what, why? Can you tell me the reason for this? As a 20-year mayor, for years, here, as a truly elected member of the community, let one person explain to me why this is the criteria, and I'll vote positive. I mean, why 750,000? Why don't we take 300 grand, 200 grand? Let's make all of Turkey a city, a capital city. Let's discuss this law together at heart. If we're gonna do it, let's do it right. Why do we have a bill like this in some places, 750 grand? If you want to bring a new revolution in Turkey, a new understanding of local governance in Turkey, if you really want to bring a new system, a new democratic understanding in the world, first you have to deal with Turkey as a whole and develop the local government with a radical reform bill in Turkey. Here I have promised, I am entering into a new idea of election, and here I am in a new country, and I have promised to my friends a 3.5 billion dollars as a burden to the finances, by making a whole city, that I will get a vote -- we cannot approach it in such an understanding. Why do we reject fifty-two provinces of Turkey because they have no population? Today, again, with the 2011 population, why don't we take the 2012 population criteria in municipalities below 2,000? Why don't we consider the last time these people were born and died today and take 2011? Why don't we make a proper law, guys? Don't run the law back. Come... why don't you take this as of this year, as of the right day's law? Why don't we ask the people in their right place, the people in their right place, the people who live in the local government, the people who can manage themselves? Why don't we ask the people who live there, including myself, who need to be in charge of their place, why don't we really ask them to make this law? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's very important that in this one-time election, maybe the midnight operation... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you so much, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0074par0032	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0075par0033	I'd like a brief word on the 60th article, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0074par0034	Here's your seat.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0075par0035	Mr. President, the clerk has a very important question now. I don't think we can go on without that explanation. We didn't really understand it because it wasn't there during the commission debates, and it came as a proposal from an AKP MP. There is talk of a new location in the city's municipalities, which is being built through separation. But the law doesn't allow urban construction in urban areas. There can't be a city municipality in the Metropolitan municipality, but only if the town is established can that asset be gained. Therefore, it is a violation of the entire terminology of the law. I don't think it's possible to continue the negotiations until this is explained, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0074par0036	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Your Honor, you have a request for a statement due to the flood. The promise will be made if other members of the Council of Ministers of Mersin also have demands.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0076par0043	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear lawmakers, there's been an extreme rainstorm around Erdemli district of our Mersin. Many of our citizens are under a flood right now. So far, no news of death has been reported, thank God, but there has been a disaster that has taken the farmer's crops away, especially from the virtue-based Kihohasan, the Lemon, the Elvanite, and the surrounding villages. I'm asking the authorities of our state, the government, from here. We know from today, Mr. Governor, that the governor's office is doing what's necessary, but it's a real disaster. All lemon gardens, greenhouses, all crops, possible casualties so far, but we're dealing with a disaster that also causes animal waste. May God protect our country from such disasters. Don't let anyone, any of our deputies, cause this kind of pain in their own district. As Parliament to Mersin, the Erdemite people, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we wish our wishes to make it better as the National Movement Party, and to ask the government's authorities to act urgently on this matter, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0077par0047	Thank you. Mr. Bozkurt...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0078par0050	Sir, I've known about this flood since morning. Since two days ago, unfortunately, there's been heavy rain in the Erdemlı district. The beauty path was partially blocked, opened. We're in close contact with our subsidiary, and our farmers are being identified for their particular damage. I'm telling our people to get well soon, and I hope we'll be able to repay them soon.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0077par0052	Thank you. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0079par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. Earlier today, around 1 p.m., the people of Mersin and Erdemite were faced with a very serious disaster, a disaster that had never been seen in the region, and with the people of Mersin and Erdemli, which began at around 1 p.m., felt more intense in our cities between the righteous Mersin. We've had our talks with the Honorable Governor-in-Chief. They have expressed that from this day forward, crisis tables will be formed and very serious. I hereby say, especially in the villages of Bighasan and Lemon, especially in their links, that the tomato greenhouses are badly damaged, that serious detections, damage assessments should be made, and that the authorities will do what is necessary, that the people of Erdem and Mersin should get past them. God says no more disasters all over our country, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0080par0059	Thank you. Dear Canikli...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0081par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. We, too, wish our citizens, our brothers and sisters, to get well first because of the flood that has occurred in Mersin Erdemli. May God keep it from the worst. I hope there's no loss of life. Of course, the goods will be compensated somehow, and we want to say here that our government will provide all the support necessary for our fellow citizens who will be harmed here. May His Majesty not show such disasters to our country, to none of our districts, to our town, to our village, to our city. Again, we wish our citizens the AK PARTY Group well. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0082par0065	Thank you. Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0083par0068	Mr. President, Virtue has faced a very serious disaster. To date, the damage done by political power to farmers and righteous peasants was not enough, but the disaster struck the righteous people. The important thing is that from now on, not only does political power have to do what it has to do, but it has to do what it has to do to put aside the rhetoric. I think he needs to repair the damage done to his virtuous farmer, his producer, his tradesman, and take the necessary precautions and immediately be declared a disaster zone. And in that sense, I would like to say to the people of Virtue once again, on behalf of the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0082par0070	Thank you. Mr. Long...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0084par0073	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish you well, for the sake of the flood and hail of our region, the people of Erdem, the people of Mersin. We've met with the governor, we've met with the governor, and the authorities are interested in him as much as possible, but I want our government's support at the point where the damage assessment is being done immediately and our farmers are being compensated.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0082par0074	Thank you. Mr. Chosen...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0085par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. Since last night's hours, a flood has occurred as a result of heavy rain in Mersin. As you all know, Mersin is an agricultural city. Hence, our citizens, especially in the Erdemli region, who work in greenhousery, who work in citrus production, who work in banana greenhousery, have suffered significant damage. We've been informed that there's significant damage not only in the Erdemlı region, but also in the centre of Mersin. There are floods in various parts of the city. I want the relevant institutions to act as soon as possible. And we all know that, especially in recent months, local producers have suffered serious losses from agricultural production in recent years, and also the loss of natural disasters. That's why the relevant institutions are there to assess the damage and to take precautions to compensate our citizens...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0086par0081	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0087par0082	I'd like to answer the statements in one sentence, if I may.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0086par0083	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0087par0085	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies, some of our farmers, our farm families, were not killed in particular because of the flood in Mersin Erdemli district, but were financially damaged. Since greenhouses are a busy area of greenhousery, a portion of the greenhouse workers' shelters near the greenhouses have become inhospitable. For these reasons, the governorship of Mersin, the chairman of our Erdemite governorate, has established temporary housing for nearly 80 families, whose homes have become inhospitable, in the social facility of the Bank of Provinces, and, according to our findings, some families have chosen to move in with their relatives who are working in agriculture. Investigating damage is ongoing. As always, our government will demonstrate the precision and the work of our people to be with the villagers who have suffered a catastrophe. I'm saying get well soon.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0086par0087	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0088par0089	Mr. President, for the record, I'd like to thank Mr. Secretary for his sensitivity in this matter. However, I say to all of our Parliament, particularly to the ruling group, that the problem is the Disaster Law. To receive disaster relief, the farmer must lose 40 percent of his presence. It's not fair to go after a farmer with such a fate. Come, let us reduce this rate to 20 percent so that we may be able to compensate the farmer for the damage he suffered after this disaster. Let's set up a law proposal like this, a materiality, so let's get this over with as soon as possible, and we'll change our farmer's problem in this sense. I thank you for your sensitivity, but I expect your will in this matter, sir, and I expect an emergency. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0089par0092	Thank you. [[Continue]] There are three motions on the 15th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 338 Deputized Metropolitan Municipality Law and the 15th Amendment to the Constitution of some Laws and Laws. Article 5393 by Law 9. In the sentence added to the clause, we propose and supply to change the expression of ▪500 (500) to (250). Celal Dinçer Birgül Ayman Güler Muharrem Light Namik Havutça Haydar Akar Ali Haydar Proposes Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. And if they do, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders or get them to read their alibis. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Of İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanzkulu and 20 MPs; of Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba and 22 MPs; of Balıkesir MP Ayşe Nedret Akovaş; of Aydın MP Ali Longparmak.; of Tekirdağ MP Bült Belen Demirtaşin; of İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal. We propose that the Article be removed from the Bill text. Mehmet Erdoğan Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Enver Erdem Scholar Light Sadir Durmaz Özcan Yeniçeri S. Nevzat Don't Fear Signers of the other motion: The secret is Sakık Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora İdris Bauken Altan Tan Nazmi Gür Do you agree with the motions of the same nature, Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0090par0122	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0089par0123	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0091par0124	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0089par0125	Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the proposal.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0092par0127	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, this thing, the draft, the bill, whatever it is that you've given us, once aside from the elements it contains, it's out of order, it's out of order, it's out of order, it's out of order, it's out of order, it's out of English. That's why I'm putting this aside. I'd like to talk a little bit about the content of Turkish and Turkish, especially after I point out that it's better expressed, especially written in short sentences. This offer brings us face to face with a revolution in Turkey's administrative structure. The planned arrangement will cause great turmoil and chaos that will upset the administrative structure. We want Turkey's administrative structure, that's what it's going to be. It's almost like an assassination. The people of the cities whose administrative structure has been changed are unaware of this change. These people don't have proper, qualified information about what this change will add to their lives and what it will diminish from their lives. There's simply no people in this law. Turkey's administrative structure is being replaced by an imposition from a hill climber (jakoben) with no people in it. The AKP is supposedly redesigning Turkey, not Turkey, according to its needs and needs. Without asking the public, an administrative structure is being established that will be subject to the public. Turkey faces administrative terrorism imposed by the AKP. This law is first against unitary structure. This law is against the Constitution. This law is against democracy. This law is a majority imposition. Dear lawmakers, we face a bill against both the Constitution and the oaths made by lawmakers. Furthermore, it is contrary to the existence and independence of the state of lawmakers in order to become MPs, the oath to maintain the undivisable integrity of the country and the nation. In this bill, the state's private administration is losing its function. With this bill, municipalities become state within the state. The villages are connected to the urban municipalities, which means the peasants and farmers are being terminated. It's all chaos, chaos, chaos. We're dealing with an unfriendly bill. This bill is not in our hands, Your Highness! The Constitutional Court will be the first place this law will reach. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] This law must not be passed, it must not be passed. If this bill causes great anxiety and controversy, then it is a controversial and anxious bill. There are some who have a voice; this is how it is ordered. It is not democratic or patriotic to pass this bill, which is being imposed. Those who serve shall know, and a sergeant shall come out in the army, and rest, and rest. He shall say, "Relieve. " Or eat, or eat, or eat. (Applause from MHP rows) Now that you've come out, this law will be passed, it will pass. With this mindset, this law also applies to a totalitarian force, not only to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but also to the United States and to the nation. The activation of jobs and services has nothing to do with issues such as employment, efficiency, and efficiency. It is also contrary to modern management to authorise city municipalities, central municipalities. Instead of a balanced distribution of authority and responsibility, the withdrawal of authority to the centre is an outdated approach. Besides, the bill -- brought before the High Assembly -- was brought before the Assembly without the serious and scientific infrastructure, without the cost-effective analysis, without the pilot practice experience. It is clear that this bill is the product of the high will of the Prime Minister, who knows himself to be a saint more than democracy. Dear lawmakers, this bill is due to four needs. The first is that the power, which was designed by this bill, by the vote taken from the cities, cannot take over the mayoral mayorate, wants to take over large-scale municipalities by including the countryside. Secondly, in the context of the Kurdish opening of the Atlantic Council, which David Phillips was president of, the establishment of law and Constitution in order to make it look like a division of the Constitution, do so under the name of management instead, strengthening local governments. The implementation of the project is the implementation of the project. And third, you're doing it to solve the Kurdish problem -- I'm saying it in a nail. What Hakan Fidan said to the PKK's people in Oslo, and what he made a commitment to, as a matter of fact...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0093par0138	You can't set up a single sentence without oslo, if you don't have it, Oslo.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0092par0139	You get a teacher, he wants to go next year. Why? I don't have good living conditions there. The government said five years ago: "We bring the law of local governments, we remove the local agencies of certain things, National Education, this is, we remove these ministries, we give them to governors and municipalities. He'll go to governors first, municipalities in the long run. What's really going to happen is that right now, the road is going to be done in Hakkari, Ankara is going to be met with the State Planning Agency -- you know, what's going to happen in Chemispek, what's going to happen here; you're going to take this man, you're going to take him, you're going to bring him to the governorship there... It's done to design these things; it's dangerous, I warn you. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You will be held responsible for the disasters, the conflicts, and the blood. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0094par0145	Well done, it was a historic speech!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0095par0146	Thank you. The second joke of the 5393 municipal law cannot be established within the area of the municipality, which is envisioned for change. The addition of its statement will cause serious problems in implementation. Because villages, particularly within the borders of the urban municipalities, have been transformed into neighborhoods, villages with less than 500 inhabitants will have to combine with another village and form a neighborhood. The distance between the villages and the villages, whose population is less than 500, has not been calculated. Therefore, it is unclear which village the mayor will be chosen in. In any case, the villagers will find it difficult to reach the mayor for legal procedures, and due to this difficulty, there will be difficulties in implementation. This practice, which will be a burden to citizens, will also lead to the absence of voters in the villages. For both correspondence and the necessary documents to be received, the chiefs must be found in the villages and selected by the village where they will be found. Otherwise, the principle of location will be violated. There are many villages in which the population is less than 500. They also strive to keep the balance between society and nature intact. Regardless of the population in the village, the protection of villages and the continuation of their corporate personalities are essential. Especially in eastern and southeast Anatolia, forced migrations, burning villages, village evacuations and so on. Many villages have been evacuated due to practice. After this migration, the tissue has been corrupted socially, and we are still facing new problems of forced migration. It is not proper for villages to be converted into neighborhoods, when laws such as the law of returning to the village are encouraged to return to their villages. According to the population, it is also a wrong approach to the establishment or removal of villages. Villages are vital to the protection and continuity of the ecosystem. Therefore, the removal of the village's corporate personality and turning it into neighborhoods, the decomposition of its population based on the application to end the human nature relationship. Therefore, the suggestion that areas that are under 500 will not be neighborhoods is not realistic and practical and is not the right suggestion. Yes, I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 338 Deputized Metropolitan Municipality Law and the 15th Amendment to the Constitution of some Laws and Laws. Article 5393 by Law 9. In the sentence added to the clause, we propose and supply to change the expression of ▪500 (500) to (250). Celal Dinçer Birgül Ayman Güler Muharrem Light Namik Havutça Haydar Akar Ali Haydar Proposes Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0096par0162	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0095par0163	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0097par0164	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0095par0165	It's Haydar Akar who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0098par0167	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, first of all, say to our citizens of Mersin that they should be relieved of their victims as soon as possible because of the flood in Mersin. Now, the Prime Minister tells a success story about the capital cities and all the cities everywhere, and he imitates Istanbul and Kopeeli. Before I tell you the story of the success of the Big City, I'll tell you the error and correction of an app that was performed in the Big City. Although all the towns -- two hundred and ninety-two villages -- were able to vote for the capital during the period before, they could not vote for the districts in which they were in their own districts, they could not vote for the districts within their borders, they would now vote for them. They lost one thing; they lost the status of the village; they lost the status of being a forest village. Now you're going to say: "What's wrong with that?" Yes, there is one thing, see, and I'll tell you something: There is a village of Balaban, two hundred and ninety-two forest villages. Two hundred and ninety surrendered to the Great City, but the village of Balaban did not surrender to the Great City. You know why he didn't turn himself in? On the grounds that it was a forest village, the Metropolitan was unable to impose any sanctions on it. So -- I think, this was given by the Kopeeli MPs, the AKP MPs -- a special clause was put into place about the taking of water money from villages with a corporate personality in the forest village. Now, this village was founded in 1877, a village of Caucasian immigrants and a village of a hundred and thirty years. They have a Balaban Creek. Forty years ago, they brought water from this stream to their homes, and they also used the excess of this water to water their animals, their gardens, agriculture. The rising water flows to Lake Sapanca, but the Metropolitan City says I will take this water from you. The headman doesn't give water. You know what he did? He sent bills to all the families, six hundred and eighty households. Not counting the stables, I'll tell you about the stables in a minute. He sent a bill to six hundred and eighty households, and the painting sent a $10 bill. I can't pay. He said the village and didn't pay. Now, the citizen has taken care of his water. This water is mine, and you will pay for it, according to this Metropolitan Law, which does not contribute a penny. Citizen, the peasant says: Where were you when I brought this water? You weren't in the market and you didn't do anything. And I'm not paying this because of the rights provided to me because of my forest corporate personality. Now, to prevent that, you brought a special substance and what did you do with it? You'll be paid by wearing clocks in the stables where they keep their animals, by wearing clocks in their henhouses, even from the water where the animals drink. Look, I'll give you another example: there were 3,000 cattle living before you came to power in the village of the Yardburun, and now there are 200 cattle. Two cattlemen in a barn, a citizen with a cow, show me the other day the bill that was paid by the city hall of Bigeli. This bill is a total of 200 TL. Now, what are you trying to do, what's your problem? Do you want to victimize the peasant a little more, or do you want to be able to get a nickel out of his pocket when he can't afford it, when he can't evaluate the peasant product where the diesel reaches $4,000? Have you calculated how many more taxes you're going to pay? I wish you would account for how many more peasants you will be taxing with this law. Now, my friends, the cities have been merged, and the town has been merged, but two kinds of practices have been made. Three of our towns were made: Darica, the population was 150,000, and it was the right decision. Why was it the right decision? Because it was the right decision to bring the services to the citizens. But there was also Cartepe, a district of ten different towns with different lifestyles. You know what? There's a town police department, a town district has a national educational directorship, a town has a town hall, there's a mayor's office in a town. While the citizen used to leave his home and go to the city to do his job, he left his home and managed to manage all administrative and social affairs, now he has to change three vehicles. Do you know why he's staying? For there is no ring in a city, nor a city square, nor a city, nor a property. Look, guys, it's not just that I'm running out of time, and I'm running out of time, and I can tell you that I don't do a lot of our problems, most of the big city, but here's the thing: In the past, there were ten tradesmen in one town, ten in each of the ten cities that I counted, and twenty in each of them fell to three or five tradesmen. Every city has 30 or 40 people eating bread, and now only citizens in the town where the mayor is. It's just that the city is trading with the local shopkeepers, where the mayor is. He really was a victim. Social life is over, economic life is over. He wishes you all to consider these things, and I offer you all love and respect.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0099par0182	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are four motions on the 16th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to a municipal municipality to be replaced by the 338 municipal law in accordance with Article 16 of the Law and Law Act. Nurettin Canikli Öznur Çukı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Adem Yeşildal Yilmaz Bronze Ramazan Can Hilmi Bilgin İsmail Aydın Yusuf Başer == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 338 Deputized Metropolitan Municipality Law and the 16th Amendment to the Constitution of some Laws and Laws. The 12th Amendment to Article 5393. In addition to the clause, we offer and offer the addition of the declaration of those who settled in the neighborhood after the declaration of the residents. Celal Dinçer Birgül Ayman Güler Muharrem Light Namık Havutça Gökhan Good morning Kazim Kurt Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 16th Amendment to the Law of the Metropolitan Municipality Act 338, which has been held in accordance with the 338 rows. We propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The rights and privileges provided for them in the legislation continue with the corporate personalities of forest villages. Alim Işım Mehmet Erdoğan Sadir Durmaz S. Nevzat Korkmaz Enver Erdem Seyfettin Yilmaz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 16th Amendment to the laws of the Metropolitan Municipality Act 338 and to the amendments to the laws and regulations of some laws and laws. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora İdris Bauken Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0100par0216	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0099par0217	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0101par0218	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0099par0219	Altan Tan has asked for a statement on the motion, Diyarbakır MP.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0102par0220	Mr. President, lawmakers, we are constantly taking the word of such an important clause, and as far as we can, we're trying to complete the errors, shortcomings of this new bill, which we're trying to carry out as much as possible. I'd like to point out that the most important thing in my speech is that the arrangements for parking in major cities and districts of major cities are left here again in a vague and vague state. The current arrangement states that the city municipalities will receive revenues from parking structures and will use them again to deal with them, but what are their limits, what are their sizes, how long they can do these applications, how much they can do them; again their borders are uncertain, their powers are crossed by undefined statements. Today, one of the biggest problems in major cities is the parking problem, perhaps the problem with the parking lot. It has come to a point where the parking problem has been given to municipalities to park on many streets and streets, or that municipalities have seized the current law by commenting on it themselves. I'm saying that they confiscated your cell. Because it's come to a point where you come to the street in front of your own apartment, and you park your car, and you have to pay for it. This was opened twenty, thirty, forty years ago, and in the urbanized parts of the city, it became a complete disaster in the dwellings, because according to the construction plans that day, the existing buildings are sometimes located in 60 percent of the land, 70 percent of the land, 80 percent of it, even in houses that are built next door to each other, sometimes 100 percent. So, as noted today's new development plans, the provisions, such as 25 per cent of the land, 20/15, can be used, you can leave parking space, were not implemented at that time. And since it wasn't implemented, the buildings were built according to the understanding of that day and according to the traffic conditions of that day, according to their needs. At the point of arrival today, these cars don't have parking spaces. However, the first person responsible today is the municipalities, not the citizens. If I'm using a dwelling or a business center in Kızılay Province today, it's not fair that I have to pay for it today, since the municipalities of 20, 30, 40, 50 years ago didn't calculate it. Well, what do you have to do? First, my dear friends, there has to be an end to the practices on these streets, so the buildings that look at these streets in particular need to have a small right. I mean, one shouldn't park his car in front of his own building, in front of his own business, or in front of his own house. In fact, if it comes and goes several times a day -- a significant number of businessmen -- and even those who use housing as a residence -- they come out in the morning, they come back in the evening, they have to pay for it at least twice a day. So what we're going to do, first of all, is to bring a liability to the municipalities in all these old zoning areas that have been open and troubled. This obligation must be described properly, and it needs to be established in those neighborhoods to establish a parking structure that determines the rights based on housing, with a card, with a headshot, if necessary. After that, if you're taking money from outsiders, you can take it, it's your most legitimate right, but it's never right to take money from the person sitting there like a second extortion. All of these regulations need to be properly stated within this law so that these sacrifices can be stopped. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0103par0226	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the 338 rankings of the Metropolitan Municipality Act, the 16th Amendment to the provisions of some Laws and Laws shall be made. I propose that the clause be changed in the following manner. The rights and privileges provided for them in the legislation continue with the corporate personality of the forest villagers. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0104par0234	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0103par0235	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0105par0236	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0103par0237	Yes, Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0106par0239	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our amendment motion. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, we view this bill as a threat to the future of the Turkish state. It's a bill that will dilute the university structure and pave the way for federalism. It's a law that lays dynamite on the foundation of our thousand-year brotherhood. Yes, valued lawmakers, this geography is a sensitive geography. In this geography, you'll think about it and say it. Why are we saying this? That's not what we're saying. Look, Mr. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan had a Kurdish report filed in 1991 when he was head of Istanbul. In this report, it shows and describes the exact day and says: "Some of Kurdistan is East and Southeast Asia Minor. We must condemn state terror as well as PKK terrorism. We have to say that the people of the region are under torture and pressure, especially from special operations. And the final statement of the Kemalist state's struggle against terrorism has failed. And the same thing, in 1991: the central state must be reduced, local parliaments must be established. And one question, the Kurds want to live separately. What will happen if they say? The answer to the question is: the system of states can do something similar. Precious MPs, see, in 2010, the Israeli Undersecretary of Foreign Affairs and the former Ambassador to Ankara are using the following statements, as Erdoğan assessed Kurdish policy on September 13, 2010: on September 13, 2010: he is ready to create a Kurdish province or at least recognise Turkey's Kurds as a national minority, but not his country. I mean, his country says he is not ready for it. Another task period is needed to complete the Kurdish mission. If he wins the June 2011 elections, the possibility could become a reality, he says. Yes, you won the June 2011 elections and became the power. Now, dear lawmakers, I want you to know this very well. If this political line and understanding continues, in 2015, Turkey will be a country that has passed on to administrative federalism and has set foot in political federalism, Ocalan will be out of prison, the Turkish nation's name will be out of Constitution. I mean, the precious MPs, you see, they didn't come through on their own. This law was not born of a need. There is no need for this law that you have brought in any Geography of Anatolia today. There is no need for this law in the village of Adana, 250km from the village of Mersin, 300km from the village, 400km from the village of Kolya. This law, which was planned in 1991, I changed. It's a sign that you haven't changed. Look, step by step, you're adapting these systems. You need to see this, we need to see this. Today you can have the power, today you can pursue political economics, today you may have expectations, today your children may have reached places in the bureaucracy, your wives may come to important places in the public; you can get a job, you can get a contract, and if you shut up with them, you risk the future of Turkey. You're taking it step by step. Yes, even though you were shouting, didn't your Prime Minister say so? Because of the meetings in Oslo, he said, let alone agree to the meeting, the bastard who did not prove that we were seeing each other. What happened? What happened when it was proven that he was seen? I didn't see him. He said. I didn't see him. He said. I didn't see him. He said. Interviewed. Well, today, I ask you, the Prime Minister who said it that day, the Prime Minister who said it that day...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0107par0247	What's that got to do with...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0106par0248	Osmaniye MP, you will listen! Take a warning from Osmaniye first. Speaking of him, the Prime Minister talks about meeting with Abdullah Ocalan, İmralah, Kandil, who is responsible for the murder of 5,000 people today. Did he say that or not? I'm asking you, did he or didn't he? Who do you get that right from? From whom do you get the authority to meet Abdullah Ocalan, who is responsible for the murder of 5,000 people? Did you receive this authority from Mehmet, the police, their family, who were martyrs in those mountains for this country? You didn't. Now, you can't fool these people with dry nationalism. With dry nationalism, you cannot pass by Turkish nationalism. I'm speaking to lawmakers within the AKP who have feelings for nationalism: this bill... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is a law of treason. Tomorrow your children will have to answer for it. Look, I'm telling you clearly, every soul will taste death.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0108par0256	You'll taste it.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0109par0257	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 338 Deputized Metropolitan Municipality Law and the 16th Amendment to the Constitution of some Laws and Laws. The 12th Amendment to Article 5393. In addition to the clause, we offer and offer the addition of the declaration of those who settled in the neighborhood after the declaration of the residents. Celal Dinçer (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0110par0264	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0109par0265	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0111par0266	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0109par0267	Kazim Kurt, Eskişehir MP, who wants to make a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0112par0269	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion. I salute you all. This is a bill that came before us without serious preparation and without adequate examination. When it came to the Commission, 5 articles were 2 temporary clauses, 37 articles, plus 2 temporary clauses were added to some articles. So, it shows that it was not well studied, it was memorized, and it was prepared in a hurry. We understand that from the motions made by the ruling party in the Commission and from the motions made by the General Assembly in the middle of the night. I think there will be new, surprise motions and changes in the following items. We demand that the motion on this clause be made clear and more legal: If the rights of the residents or residents in those forest villages continue, what will happen to the people who will be settled there from now on? If we're really going to make a law in a democratic and legal manner, we shouldn't leave any details blank. 9.652 forest villages will suffer, suffer, and cause problems to arise in the future. In particular, it will create an environment where chaos, fighting and anarchy will be created, which is our duty to gather and correct as soon as possible, and we all need to be more careful about that. In the meantime, by making a change ahead of each municipal election on municipal law, some electoral circles are being created with new additions. Law 5393 was released in 2004, applied in 2005, changed in 2007 and changed again in 2008; new districts, new districts, new campaign operations were carried out. Today, operations in Yenimahalle, Şişli are under way, but these will not be the answer because no matter what operation you perform, these people will not vote for you, and you will not be able to reach your goals in Şişli, Yenimahalle, or other regions, just as they were in Eskişehir. From our municipalities in Eskişehir, Bozan, Osmaniye, Gümşkonak, Kayakent, Alpagut, Lacin, Dinek, Yunumre, Kırka, Dümrek, Kaymaz, Nasrettin Hodja, Gündüz and Doğançı, we close down 14 towns, but don't think that when we close down these towns, these people will vote for you again and you will win Eskişehir Metropolitan Municipality. This is not possible because in our referendums, 99% of our people have stressed that they want to be run by the municipality and demand their own municipality. Any practice that has been carried out without consideration will not benefit you, nor will it bring harm to our democracy. Please withdraw an application that is contrary to the Constitution and against democratic principles. The Constitution has divided administrative structures as cities, villages and municipalities, but in 29 counties, you are destroying a constitutional administrative structure by eliminating the village in nearly two-thirds of Turkey. I think the Constitutional Court will consider it, make some serious assessments, and in Turkey, by showing you once again the existence of law, the state of law. In Eskişehir, as in Turkey, there are 12 provincial counties, but we have closed the courts in eight, and you perform your function by shutting down 14 municipalities. We await your support of our motion. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0113par0276	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0114par0280	We want roll call.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0113par0281	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Kören, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu, Mr. Acar, Mr. Özgüşmiş, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Ekcin, Mr. Öner, Mr. Değirmedereli, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Tayan. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to a municipal municipality to be replaced by the 338 municipal law in accordance with Article 16 of the Law and Law Act. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0115par0297	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0113par0298	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0116par0299	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0117par0300	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0113par0301	I'm reading the reason: In the event that a local municipality or village ends its corporate personality and is connected to the municipality as a neighborhood, it is intended that residents of this neighborhood will not continue to use it within the framework of the Law on Mera 4342. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are three motions in Article 17 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework 17 amendment of the current bill, which is 338 rows, shall be changed in the following way. Nurettin Canikli Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Love Look, Ilyas, Pelin Pelin, Günş Bakır Recep Special Öznur Çukı Tülay Kaynarca Nesrin Ulema Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Mehmet Sarı The last sentence of Article 17-5393 of Article 14 (a) has been removed, and the same sentence has been added to me, and the following joke has been added to the first sentence of the joke (b) that "can open and operate any health-related facility;" following the declaration "making, maintenance, repair the temples" can be added; the second sentence has been changed in the following way, and the following joke is added to follow the first joke. "The municipality and its population must open guest houses for more than 100,000 municipalities, women and children. Other municipalities can also open guest houses for women and children by considering financial and service priorities." When necessary, he gives sports materials to young people to encourage sports, gives the same and cash support to amateur sports clubs, organises all kinds of amateur sports matches, gives awards to students, athletes, technical managers and trainers who are superior in domestic and international competitions, or have a degree in success, or have received a municipal council decision." "In accordance with the first joke (b), the transfer of funds to promote sports cannot exceed seven-thousandths of the amount of tax revenues in general budget revenues for municipalities in the previous year," he said. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the 338 rankings under the Metropolitan City Law, the 17th Amendment to the Constitution of some Laws and Laws shall be made. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Mahmut Tanal Celal Dinçer Birgül Ayman Güler Ali Haydar Öner Oktay Sour Souk Engin Altay Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu Ali İhsan Kokturk Attila Kart The first clause (a) of Article 5393 of Article 14 (a) has been removed, and the following sentences have been added to me, and can open and operate all kinds of health-related facilities in the first sentence of the joke (b), and can open and repair the temples; and the second sentence has been changed for students who are living in the box and in line with the poor and underprivileged education legislation and have the necessary permissions provided they can open a prep school and open a student's home, and can open a student's home, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair the maintenance of the temples; and the following sentence has been changed. The municipality and its population must open guest houses for over 25,000 municipalities, women and children. Other municipalities can also open guest houses for women and children by considering financial and service priorities." When necessary, he gives sports materials to young people to encourage sports, the same and cash to amateur sports clubs and to provide the necessary support, organises all kinds of amateur sports matches, gives awards to students, athletes, technical managers and trainers who excel in domestic and international competitions, or receive a degree in success or degree in foreign competition," he said. The temple definition in this article includes mosques, churches, synagogues and cemevs. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There are 338 rows under the Metropolitan Municipality Act and 17 of the Law Bill for amendments to the provisions of some Law and Law. We propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The last sentence of Article 17-5393 of Article 14 (a), the last sentence of Article 14 (a), has been removed from effect, and the same sentence has been added to me, and can open and operate any health-related facility in the first sentence of the joke (b), and the second sentence has been changed in the following way. The municipality and its population must open guest houses for more than 50,000 municipalities, women and children. Other municipalities may also consider financial and service priorities and open guest houses for women and children. ▪ ▪ When necessary, amateur sports clubs can be given the same and cash assistance and the necessary support, organise any amateur sports matches, awards to students or students who have been superior in national and international competitions, athletes, technical managers and coaches, by the decision of the city council," he said. Mehmet Erdoğan Bkent Belen Alim Ik Seyfettin Yilmaz Ali Öz Mesut Dedeoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0118par0345	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0113par0346	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0119par0347	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0120par0348	Mr. President, I want to know something from the Commission. I'd like to know if the word "mabettes" in here has camisoles, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0113par0349	Yes, Mr. Commission says, "Does the word "Mabets" have camisoles in it?"
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0121par0350	Mr. President, the word "mabbits" was mentioned in the Commission as the location of the service. That's it...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0120par0351	We're asking clearly, sir, if there are any temples at the places of worship. Mr. Secretary, you tell me, do they have a camisole or not?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0122par0353	Anyone who wants a word on the motion...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0120par0354	No, sir, I mean, does he have a camisole or not?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0122par0356	Mehmet Shandır, MP of Mersin, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0120par0357	Don't be afraid, my friends.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0122par0358	Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0120par0360	Is there a temple or not? Tell them to answer, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0123par0361	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0122par0362	Mr. Chancer, one second, it could be a mistake.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0120par0363	Mr. President, let them answer our question, sir. Does he have a temple or not?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0122par0364	Your Honor, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0124par0365	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0125par0366	Let them answer the question, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0122par0367	Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0126par0368	Mr. President, look, I'm asking you a question, a very important question.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0122par0369	Mr. Young, I mean, answer the Commissioner this way. I can't say that!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0126par0370	No, but he's not answering.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0127par0371	He didn't, he didn't answer.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0122par0372	I've raised your question, Mr. Commission.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0126par0373	But, sir, look, I don't know if there's a camisole in the word "mabeth" or not. I mean, it's either that or it's not.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0128par0374	We want an explanation.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0126par0375	But tell me, what are you afraid of?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0129par0376	Yeah, I asked the question. I can't force you to say it. Mr. Shandir, please come in.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0126par0378	No, if you don't have a tongue, let's give you a tongue. Yeah, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0130par0379	Mr. President, keep quiet so I can talk.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0129par0380	It's not my job to force it, Mr. Glory.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0131par0381	It concerns 20 million people. It concerns 20 million people in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0132par0382	I mean, tell me if there's a camisole or not.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0129par0383	Mr. Young, please, Mr. Orator...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0132par0384	No, but Mr. President, this is very important, so he has to answer here. A Commission will be silenced and a law that will be interpreted the day after tomorrow. Sir, we're asking if this exists or not.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0129par0385	Mr. President, please respond, and you are either in or out.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0133par0386	Mr. President, this has been expressed in the Commission talks. It was stated that the temples were referred to as a place of worship, mentioned as a place of worship, and were not accepted as a place of worship by the Ministry of Religious Affairs.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0129par0388	Thank you, okay.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0134par0389	How can you not admit it?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0133par0390	I've expressed the opinion of the Head of Religious Affairs.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0134par0391	Yeah, well, are you under the authority of the President of Religious Affairs?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0133par0392	Of course I'm not, but it's not in my favor.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0135par0393	Mr. Chancer, then please don't stand there.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0134par0394	At the behest of the president of the religious affairs, sir, you can't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0135par0395	He said it wasn't, what do you want?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0134par0396	No, sir. I mean, is there a stupid idea today that the Alevi people's place of worship is not considered a temple, it's considered a place of worship, it's considered a place of worship?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0135par0397	Mr. Young, you asked a question, he answered.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0134par0398	Look, they made an addition to Article 89 of the IRS Act.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0135par0399	Please watch your language, Mr. Young One, so those words will be used in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and will they be used in the words of the Council of Ministers, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0134par0400	Sir, look, Mr. President, if this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, this is not a Sharia state, this is not a sheikhism state.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0135par0401	You can say that, but it's within the rules of procedure and...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0134par0402	It says here in accordance with the law that the President of Religious Affairs did not accept this -- as a place of worship -- and I do not accept it as a place of worship. How could there be such an absurd thought, sir?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0135par0403	He's given the opinion of the chair of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0134par0404	There's no such thing as an absurd thought! You have to decide by who you are. With the place of worship...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0135par0405	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. President, it's not up to my discretion. Yes, Mr. President. Yes, come in, Mr. Shandur.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0136par0409	All right, sir?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0135par0410	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0137par0411	What did he say? Then come here by gaining character, by gaining personality!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0135par0413	Mr. Young, please.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0137par0414	What the hell are you shaking your hand for? Is the temple not a place of worship? Isn't the temple a place of worship?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0135par0416	Mr. Young, please sit down!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0137par0417	Why are you shaking your hand? Come here, you! Come, you!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0138par0418	Come!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0137par0419	Come, you! Come here, you!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0138par0420	Come, come!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0137par0421	No, you come here!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0139par0422	Mr. Young, look at your style, please, is it true?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0137par0423	I mean, that's not gonna happen. Oh, this Parliament's become a toy for them! Do you have the right to make a hand like that? The gas bomb, come on, throw it! I'll bring him in and shoot you in the nose! I'll get it now, now! [[Sit down, sit down!]] What guy is he?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0140par0427	Don't shout like a shepherd, shepherd!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0137par0428	You didn't break free from slavery! Recep Tayyip Erdogan will get the Oscar to divide the country, won't he? He's gone, he's got the Jewish prize, he's got the Jewish prize of courage, and now he's getting the Oscar to divide the country, and you're serving him, well done!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0141par0430	Mr. Shandir, please come in.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0142par0431	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this last example shows that this law is a law that would violate the unity of the nation, a law that would violate the peace, so it's true, but you're going to define the definitions correctly. You're bringing in a law that develops a lot of debates that are already going on in society. What do you say to our citizens of Alevi? How do you explain it? So what we're doing here is, if the law doesn't promote peace as a social response, if it doesn't improve unity, then there's no good in that law. How can you expect no from a law that raises debate? So we insist that we withdraw this law, reassess it. There's no hurry, the elections will be held on time, March 29, 2014. By March 29th, 2013, by discussing this law more and more, by describing the unknowns correctly, do you realize that the ruling group is making motions on almost every issue? But this law has been set up somewhere for over a year. The commission was discussed for nearly a hundred hours, but the ruling group is still here, and if they're making a motion to correct this law, then there's no rush, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0143par0433	They've never seen it before.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0144par0434	They've never seen it before, and they've just seen it like we have.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0142par0435	I mean, you're right about something some of our friends say out loud here. I mean, the Prime Minister commands... please! Stop, sir! Make some objections. What is this? What's the rush? You know where they go when they're in a hurry.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0145par0436	It takes courage, courage.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0142par0437	Now, look, dear friends, I didn't come to the stand to say that. What is the social response to this law? What's it worth to the citizen? Think about it this way. What law does it bring to the villagers of the village of Arslan, 50 miles above the Toros Mountains, whose town has been shut down and turned into a neighborhood?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0146par0438	He brings a lot, saves a lot of waste.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0142par0439	For God's sake, he's paying taxes, he's getting a raise...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0147par0440	It's persecution. It's cruelty.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0142par0441	To me, it brings persecution. It's a law of persecution. Look, I'm reading to you, my dear friends, and I'm reading to you, not to me, but to Professor Dr. Thank you, Kızinot Hoxha, who says: "He raises taxes on evil and advertising, he comes to villages. Fun tax, telecommunications tax, electricity and gas consumption tax, fire insurance tax, occupational fees, working during holidays, registration fees, resource water fees, wiretaps, animal-cuts, inspections, measure and scale tools, examinations, building construction, construction fees, construction fees, permit, land influx, permit to open land, work tuition, examination, registration report. The peasant doesn't deal with these fees now. In your village, with teeth and nails, in the effort to feed your children at the top of that mountain, to live with honor, now that you will civilize the village, we will urbanize it, there is no social response in society. He's happy with the village, he's happy with the country. What is wrong with you people? What do you want with this peasant of mine, dear friends? You bring in a lot of new taxes, you double the current taxes. You're gonna want licenses, construction licenses. So you'll excuse one-- he's got a cow, he'll build him a barn, you'll ask him for a license, you'll ask for a project, you'll ask for tuition.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0148par0442	At least 800 lira, tuition.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0142par0443	Dear friends, look, put your hands on your conscience, MPs. You are the guardians of this nation, so do not wrong them. The opposite of persecution is the curse of God according to our faith. You're torturing the citizens. My village is happy and happy with its village. We'll make him a cityman, we'll make him civilized. It's not fair to persecute our peasant. At this beautiful hour of the evening, gather your minds, put your hand on your conscience, withdraw this law, let us reassess it, and rearrange it according to your expectations. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But in that case, we'll make a law of persecution. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0149par0448	Not according to their expectations, let's fix it according to the public's expectations.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0150par0449	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the 338 rankings under the Metropolitan City Law, the 17th Amendment to the Constitution of some Laws and Laws shall be made. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Mahmut Tanal (Istanbul) and his friends Article 17-5393 of Article 14 (a) the first clause of Article 14 (a) has been removed from effect, and I have the following sentences added, which can open and operate any health-related facility in the first sentence of the joke (b) which can be opened and maintained; and the second sentence has been changed for students to be in accordance with the national education legislation for students living in the box and in need of permissions, and can grant scholarships to the university, and can open a student dorm, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance of the temples; and the following sentence has been changed. The municipality and its population must open guest houses for over 25,000 municipalities, women and children. Other municipalities can also open guest houses for women and children by considering financial and service priorities." When necessary, he gives sports materials to young people to encourage sports, the same and cash to amateur sports clubs and to provide the necessary support, organises all kinds of amateur sports matches, gives awards to students, athletes, technical managers and trainers who excel in domestic and international competitions, or receive a degree in success or degree in foreign competition," he said. The temple definition in this article includes the mosque, the church, the synagogue, and the cemev. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0151par0459	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0150par0460	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0152par0461	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0150par0462	Birgül Ayman Güler, who wants to speak on the proposal.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0153par0464	Mr. President, the bill we've discussed has been frozen in Article 14 beyond our objections. Dear lawmakers, the error made in Article 14 means that the government is unaware of what the draft plan is. This could at least be defined as insufficient preparation. With the Pergel law in effect, mergers and separations in major cities are no longer physically possible when its property is at stake. You're setting up urban property on borders, and you're still making arrangements here, whether it's 50,000 or 20,000 if there's a merger, like the time of the compass. Now, it's really difficult to take seriously a bill that we see is not in control of the spirit of the work, but we take it seriously because we have a bill that deeply affects Turkey's administrative and political structure. I wish that the ruling lawmakers would listen to the opposition lawmakers more and more from the 14th article, and I will always be amazed to remember that the Commission did not agree with this motion here, Mr. President. It was an opportunity to change their own mistakes, and they melted it away in a tendency not to even listen to it. Dear lawmakers, there are four issues in the 17th article. It's about faith management, it's about women, it's about children, and it's about sports. Faith, women, children and sports, we organize their relations with local governments. We're talking about four issues in one article, but since you're making it the basic law, we have to talk about a motion. 100 grand for women's shelters... why 100 grand? I want an explanation. Why not 25 grand? Isn't our problem of violence against women in small places even more unbearable? I can't talk about it anymore. I'm getting to sports. There's a lot of problems with relations between the Sports Department, the city and the clubs. What better way to arrange it? Is that enough? We can't talk about it. And the issue of faith... if there is a Turkish National Assembly here based on the interpretation of the President of Religious Affairs, then we are back to Sheikhism. (HPP) Commenting in Turkey, decisionmaking power is in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. The definitions of the Ministry of Religious Affairs or of universities or of highly respected thinkers may be the input that enriches us. The Interior Commission does not include temples; it is the interpretation of the Religious Works. Do we have a Ministry of Religious Affairs over the Grand National Assembly of Turkey?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0154par0470	According to these. They're royalty.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0153par0471	I want this evaluation withdrawn. I believe the reputation of the Turkish Grand National Assembly has been marred. The hierarchy of institutions is a nation of authority. Are we to re-establish the sovereignty of the nation by putting aside the word? Dear lawmakers must be regarded as a place of worship after many citizens in our country demand them. There must be an explanation for the fact that the municipality has spoken of the place of worship in the zoning law and that it has chosen the word. What are we going to tell the municipal practitioners who might have hesitated about whether the temple was a place of worship?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0155par0473	Literally, the temple is a place of worship.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0153par0474	I'm saying a technical dimension: a place of worship in the Building Law. You say, "Not a temple, but a place of worship." Come back and see what's the difference between the two, then ask the President of Religious Affairs again, if that's the source.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0156par0475	Have them ask for sheikhs, sheiks!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0153par0476	This bill must be withdrawn, Congressman. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0157par0479	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0158par0481	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0157par0482	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial. [[There's no voice from CHP and MHP rows. There's a voice from the AK PARTY lines, there's a voice, there's a voice, there's a voice, there's a voice, there's a voice, there's a voice, there's a voice, there's a voice, there's a voice, ……]] There's a disagreement between the clerks, we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0159par0488	Mr. President, why is this Idris Naim Şahin sitting here? It says: I'm not in the driver's license to decide.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0157par0489	Mr. Young, please...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0159par0490	The President of Religious Affairs commands me, and I do it, he says, and so does Commissioner Muammer.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0157par0491	Mr. Young, we don't have this kind of procedure, please sit down, please.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0159par0492	So, what do these represent here? Let me ask them what they represent. Then get the hell out of there. If honorable and decent people don't act of their own free will, if they don't act of their own accord, they have to leave the authorities, if they're taking orders from others, they have no right to sit on these benchs.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0157par0494	Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework 17th amendment of the current bill, 338 rows, shall be changed in the following manner. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends The last sentence of Article 17-5393 of Article 14 (a) has been removed, and the same sentence has been added to me, and the following joke has been added to the first sentence of the joke (b) that "can open and operate any health-related facility;" following the declaration "making, maintenance, repair the temples" can be added; the second sentence has been changed in the following way, and the following joke is added to follow the first joke. The municipality and its population must open guest houses for more than 100,000 municipalities, women and children. Other municipalities may also consider financial and service priorities and open guest houses for women and children. When necessary, he gives sports materials to young people to encourage sports, the same and cash to amateur sports clubs and to provide the necessary support, organises all kinds of amateur sports matches, gives awards to students, athletes, technical managers and trainers who excel in domestic and international competitions, or receive a degree in success or degree in foreign competition," he said. According to the first joke (b) of the city's 1st joke, the transfer of funds to promote sports could not exceed a thousandth of the amount of tax revenues that were imposed on their municipalities in the previous year. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0160par0504	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0157par0505	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0161par0506	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0162par0507	Motive...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0157par0508	I'm reading the reason: Reason: A specific limitation is intended for sports clubs, sports clubs, and cash benefits for athletes in order to encourage sports. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are two motions on the 18th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 338 Deputized Metropolitan Municipality Law and the 18th Amendment to the Constitution of some Laws and Laws. Article 5393 is the 15th Law. In addition to the first article, we propose and propose that the application be added to the terms of the "r" in the article, not less than 25 meters [25 m] in the settlement areas. Celal Dinçer Birgül Ayman Güler Muharrem Light Namik Havutça Gökhan Morning İlhan Demiröz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We will remove the draft of the draft of the draft of the Law and Law on Some Laws and Laws, and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Gorıkulu and 20 MPs; Malatya MP Veli Agababa and 22 MPs; Balıkesir MP Ayşe Nedret Akova; Aydın MP Ali Longırmak; Tekirdağ MP Bült Belen; İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal; Malatya MP Öznur Çukukukuk and 14 MPs's Law Commission on Similar Laws; and the draft of the drafting of the draft from the 338th edition of the draft. Mehmet Erdoğan Enver Erdem S. Nevzat Don't Fear Alim Işım Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Kalaycı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0163par0526	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0157par0527	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0164par0529	Mustafa Kalaycı...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0157par0530	Mustafa Kalaycı asking for a word on the motion is the MP of the Constabulary.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0165par0532	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm going to announce the bill in the size of the lconium. The model presented in this bill on the Metropolitan municipalities is never suitable for the model of Iconia. The dress you've made may be suitable for our provinces, such as the province of Istanbul, but this dress is too tight to fit in. Many parts of Konya are naked. Konya's facial measurement is 40,814 square kilometers, 38,873 square kilometers, except for lakes, approximately 8 times larger than her. It is bigger than many countries in the world. There are 12 separate regional governments in the Netherlands, which have almost the same facial measurement as the host. With this bill, there will be serious setbacks in the local administration services in Iconia, which is four-quarters of a mile [400 km] from one end to the other. The current city municipality is unable to cope with problems, particularly domestic transportation, even in the ever-growing and expanding Konya centre, due to the migration. Even when it rains for half an hour or 20 centimeters of snow, they know exactly what traffic is like. And yet, how do we get daily municipal services in 168 cities that will be closed, how do we get garbage, roads, water facilities, and sewer repairs? Will the citizen receive services from more than 200 kilometers away, or will you keep many businesses and staff around? You're going to open a department in the districts and towns of the Metropolitan municipality? Then why are you shutting down our existing municipalities? Who's his next-door municipality gonna tell him about the closed-down citizen problem? The city's population is 1,73,000 791 people, and the population of our three districts of Selçuklu is over 517,000 people, except in the village and villages. The city center is expanding in the direction of the Afyon-Istanbul road. As a result, this region has a large population density, particularly in Bosnia and Sandzak neighborhoods. The population growth and geographical expansion forced the establishment of new districts in the Konya centre to ensure that public services are conducted in a healthy and effective manner. Let's all make this arrangement. We have towns in Konya that have been waiting to be a province for years. Ereğli has a population of more than 138km and a distance of 150km to Konya. Akşehir district has a population of 95km and a distance of 135km to Konya. The population, which our counties address geographically, economically and socially, is more than 200,250K separately. We have large counties such as Sejdişehir, Beyşehir, Karapınar, Ilgınar, Çumra, which are larger than most of the cities that exist today. In Konya, many of our cities have been waiting for years to become districts. However, with this bill, our 168 towns and 585 villages -- including Ladik, Yeniceoba, Indıl, Belkaya, Havnçalı, Dünçiklı -- are now larger than most counties -- have been buried in history. The district of Akkise, like Balcir, is built into the district of Akkise, which is larger than its district. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look, you've all read it today. The Mayor of the AK PARTY of our lower town in the District of Konya Ilçılı is rioting. The Prime Minister says I don't approve of my rights. The city is closed for a hundred years, with 6,000 inhabitants; 800 populations are located in the district of Davutoglu. I don't owe a cent to anything but the Bank of Iller. I'm asking the MPs not to shut down our 100-year-old municipality. Susan is the dumb devil in the face of injustice. He says so, says our mayor of the AK PARTY. I admire our mayor's bold exit, I congratulate him. I invite you to be brave, to follow your conscience. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0166par0545	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0167par0548	Roll call...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0166par0549	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Vural, Mr. Şandir, Mr. Erdogan, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Kalaycı, Mr. Türkoğlu, Mr. Öz, Mr. Öz, Mr. Oğan, Mr. Halaçoğlu, Mr. Akşener, Mr. Adan, Mr. Topcu, Mr. Özensoy, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Torlak, Mr. Basesgioğlu, Mr. President. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 338 Deputized Metropolitan Municipality Law and the 18th Amendment to the Constitution of some Laws and Laws. Article 5393 is the 15th Law. In addition to the first article, we propose and propose that the application be added to the terms of the "r" in the article, not less than 25 meters [25 m] in the settlement areas. Celal Dinçer (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0168par0565	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0166par0566	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0169par0567	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0166par0568	Ilhan Demiröz has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0170par0570	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. Today I will express my views on the closure of an organization with labor, service, facilities, and memory in every part of our country. I have to share with you at the beginning of my remarks how difficult this is because the AKP Power, which told you that they had reformed State Special Administration Law 5302, which was adopted in 2005, has quickly closed these laws in the 29 provinces and the district general legislatures, which have been the ruling body. Once again, I would like to express that it is wrong to shut down the city general assembly, thank the city's private administration workers and my fellow city council members for their work, effort, and stances so far. Congressmans, I'm really curious to know what you're going to tell them when you meet members of the city's general assembly in your electoral district. You can't say it's a failure because it's the county general assembly that makes solutions by living with them day after day, knowing all the problems of the district, the county, their villages. The provincial parliaments, which serve the countryside, are the province's general parliaments that have taken care of the peasant, the farmer. The city's general council members hold meetings on the first five days of each month, charging $100 per meeting. Is that why the city's general councilmen are being shut down? Because they're working on politics? Is it because they do not refuse to speak the truth in the work of the city general Assembly, and because they have such issues with the ruling and opposition members of the town council? Are the city's general council members closed because they don't reflect irrigation, drainage, sewers, asphalt issues to lawmakers? Is it because there's a transfer, a promotion, a job? Are the city's general council members shut down because they oppose stone furnaces, cement factories, that polluting their territory? Is it because when the city's general assembly reports of droughts and disasters, they send them to relevant ministries without hesitation, without prejudice, without prejudice? The change of plan is being shut down because they're protecting the interests of the district's towns and villages? Is that why the city's general parliaments are being shut down because they're getting out to the sidelines and closing their doors? Is the land donated to the city's private administration being shut down because the building, the hotel, etcetera is a source of the mayor's appetites? Is the city legislature being shut down because they own water supply, drinking water? Is it because they claim their forests, their farmland? I also congratulate my dear friends Mustafakemalpaşa Çördük, a member of the Lord General Assembly of Bursa, who I am honored to work with, for the Inats, for Karacabey Şahinköy and for KOTİYAK, for BESOB in Kestel, for their upright standing for Ingegazi in Nilüfer. All of the People's Special Government employees and members of the City General Assembly, the Nazim Çakmaks, Nedim Akdemirs, the Turgay Peker, Fuat Altunoks, Ahmet Bilgis, Nafiz Rocks, Bekir Turunç, Hero Horsemen, Ahmet Hulusi Aydıns, Hasan Arslanstones, are celebrating their reputations without notice, and the People's Party will always honor their success in the hearts.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit04spe0171par0576	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, there is a motion for an open vote of Article 18 of the bill, and I will read the motion and call for signatures. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We'd like to hold a clear vote on the matter. Oktay Vural, İzmir? Here. Mehmet Shandır, Mersin? Here. Scholar Light, Kütahya? Here. Mehmet Erdogan, Muğla? Here. Enver Erdem, Elazig? Here. Ali Öz, Mersin? Here. Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana? Here. Zuhal Topcu, Ankara? Here. D. Ali Torlak, Istanbul? Here. Rusar Demirel, Eskişehir? Here. Münir Kutluata, Sakarya? Here. Mustafa Kalaycı, Konya? Here. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Osmaniye? Here. Koray Aydın, Tripoli? Here. Mustafa Erdem, Ankara? Here. Reşat Right, Slap? Here. Necati Özensoy, Bursa? Here. Murat Basesgioğlu, İstanbul? Here. Yusuf Halaçoğlu, Kayseri? Here. Sinan Okan, Iğdir? Here. I'll get the General Assembly's decision on the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the open vote of Article 18 of the article: ▪ Number of votes used: 208 [[x]] Mine Lök White Tanju Özcan Thus the 18th article was adopted. I'm taking a break from the merger until 8:10.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0171par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 19th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 338. The commission and the government are in place. There are four motions on Article 19: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit the following sentence to the first clause (c) of Article 5393 of Article No. 5393, which has been replaced by Article 19 of the Law and Law Code. "For joint service projects with other associations and foundations, the permission of the head of the largest property manager must be taken." Nurettin Canikli Öznur Çukı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ahmet Berat Çonkar İsmail Aydın Yilmaz Tunç Ramadan Can Hilmi Bilgin Yusuf Başer Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 19th Amendment to the 338th Metropolitan Municipality Act and the 19th Amendment to certain Laws and Laws. (c) to bendine (c) replaced with Article 5362, "a joint service project can be carried out with vocational rooms in accordance with the Law of the Traders and Minor Artists." "and can offer joint projects to foreign and domestic fund-raisers." We offer and offer to add his testimony. İdris Bauken Alvan Tan Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 338 Deputized Metropolitan Municipality Law and the 19th Amendment to the Constitution of some Laws and Laws. Article 5393 under Law 75. We propose and propose that the clause added to the clause be removed from the item text. Celal Dinçer Birgül Ayman Güler Muharrem Light Namık Havutça Gökhan Good morning Candan Güceler Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "A draft of İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanıkulu and 20 MPs; Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba and 22 MPs; Balıkesir MP Ayşe Nedret Akova; Aydın MP Ali Uzırmak's; Tekirdağ MP Bült Belen; İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal Level; Malatya MP Öznur Çalık and 14 MPs's Law Commission Report* 338 of the draft of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We request that the clause be removed from the draft text. Enver Erdem Mehmet Erdogan Reşat Right Scholar Light S. Nevzat Don't Fear Sadir Don't Stop Congressmans, 338...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0172par0035	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0171par0036	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0172par0037	Mr. President, it's about the procedure. I'm sorry. Two clerks from the same political party are against the Constitution in terms of the Civil Code because...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0171par0039	Mr. Tanal, that's all you're saying, okay, Mr. Tanju Özcan is from your party.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0172par0040	It doesn't matter, it's a matter of procedure. I mean, here...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0171par0041	So what do we do now? They made a deal with Bayram Bey.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0173par0042	Sir, the Court is not biased.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0172par0043	No, it's clouding the integrity of the Court. That won't do, Dear President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0173par0044	Surely he's not going to be able to unbiased...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0174par0045	It's really amazing what you're saying.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0172par0046	How?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0173par0047	You'll find it, so it's the president's job.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0174par0048	Where am I going to get it, Mr. Young?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0172par0049	I mean, why is this Civil Code written?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0174par0050	How am I supposed to find it? How do you find a clerk?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0175par0051	Sir, you'll find it from the other opposition. No, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0176par0052	Where's your friend? Why isn't he doing his duty?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0175par0053	Not biased, Presidential Court. No, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0177par0054	So this is your responsibility.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0178par0055	Is that even a thing?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0177par0056	That way, Mr. President, it undermines the independence of the Court, its neutrality.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0179par0057	We already know that our friend over there is always on the sidelines.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0178par0058	Mr. Özcan came because he called, because he handed it over, because he said he had a job.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0177par0059	Sir, it could be your... it's not like it's fun. That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0179par0060	The neutral court will be formed. No, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0178par0061	What do you mean, no?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0177par0062	Sir, the Civil Code commands him, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0179par0063	No, I mean, what kind of a one-sided Court is that? No, not a one-sided Court, Mr. President. Of course...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0178par0064	Then let Mr. Ozcan come, sir. Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0179par0065	All right, take a break, let him come, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0180par0066	Look, this is your responsibility. This is not the responsibility of the vice president of the group.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0178par0067	Mr. Yalcinkaya, then.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0180par0068	Look, the members there are your responsibility. He's your responsibility. Please...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0181par0069	Take a break, dear.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0182par0070	Take a break, call it in, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0183par0071	Why am I taking a break? Please, Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0182par0072	Take a break, make sure.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0184par0073	The Court must do its duty.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0185par0074	Mr. President, look, you have duties and responsibilities in Article 14. One of your duties and responsibilities is that two clerks from the same political party can't be present in order for the Court to be neutral -- in accordance with Article 7 and Article 11 of the Court. So it is against the Civil Code to open this session without completing this gap.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0186par0075	Sir, call in the clerk, then get started.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0187par0076	What article does it say in the Civil Code, Mr. Tanal?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0188par0077	No, no, no.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0187par0078	You shut up!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0188par0079	What's he saying?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0187par0080	Look the other way!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0188par0081	You shut up!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0187par0083	I'm not talking to you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0188par0084	Speech! Don't talk! Don't you talk! Don't talk!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0187par0085	Who are you?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0188par0086	Don't talk! Come on!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0189par0087	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0188par0088	Mr. President, you have to make the Court neutral.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0190par0089	Mr. Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0191par0090	Sir, about your attitude...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0190par0091	Mr. Tanju Özcan...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0192par0092	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0193par0093	Take a break, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0190par0094	Mr. Proposal, I'm not going to ask you, so please don't mind. Why would I take a break? The Presidential Court has formed.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0194par0095	No, sir, the Court doesn't work until it's neutral. We don't trust the Court.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0195par0096	The Court does not exist in the General Assembly, Mr. President, but in the office of the Speaker of Parliament.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0190par0097	The Presidential Court, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0195par0098	Talk to the Speaker, call him in.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0190par0099	Members of the Council of Ministers, the Court of the Interior for the closing session of the last motion read on Article 19 of the Law Bill 338...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0196par0100	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0190par0101	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0197par0102	Mr. President, no. You have to form the court, neutral. That's what you've always done.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0198par0103	It can't be continued, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0199par0104	Mr. President, I mean, this is really the pressure of the House, your work...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0200par0105	Yours is an imposition. Please don't mind. Due to the absence of two members of your party,
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0201par0106	Mr. President, take a break.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0199par0107	You're gonna take a break, you're gonna call it in.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0201par0108	Take a break, call it in. Take a break, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0202par0109	There's no such thing in the way, why would I take a break?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0199par0110	Look, there's no way you can have two clerks from the same political party.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0202par0111	So the Court did. Other than that, it's from the same party, it's from other parties, so this is the first time I've heard the call from you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0203par0112	Mr. President, is this the right way from the same party?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0199par0113	No. Mr. President... That's all the facts so far.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0204par0114	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0205par0115	Yes, Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0204par0116	Mr. President, has the Court been appointed by the Speaker?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0205par0117	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0204par0118	What is the Court in charge, who is it, who is it?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0206par0119	Take a break, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0205par0120	From the president and the two clerks...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0204par0121	Sir, please read a list of who the Speaker has assigned to the clerk members and members of parliament.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0205par0122	Is this the first time, Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0207par0123	Yeah, it's the first time!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0204par0124	It's not the first time...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0205par0125	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0204par0126	...but this is the first time this law of treason has ever been passed!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0208par0127	Take a break, call him, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0205par0128	Yell all you want, shout all you want. Scream, we hear, shout a little louder. I mean, what are you gonna figure out by yelling?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0204par0129	Mr. President, look, a clerk can't serve without the Speaker's commission. That's not true!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0205par0130	No, if there's any logic to what you're saying...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0204par0131	Mr. President, please read the appointment of the Speaker.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0205par0132	I'll read it to the Speaker's office.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0209par0133	What does it say?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0210par0134	You can't knowingly reverse the procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0211par0135	Read it.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0212par0136	I mean, the vice president can change, and you can change, it doesn't matter.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0213par0137	Mr. Reza is here.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0214par0139	Mr. President, you know it's against the rules.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0213par0140	It's not against the way I do it, it's against everything you do. (CHP and MHP rows) It's against everything you do.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0214par0141	Then you change there.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0215par0142	It's your ignorance, not ours. It's your ignorance.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0216par0143	I want a word about the procedure. I want your word on your attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0217par0144	Make peace between you. I'll give you who's against you and who's in favor.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0216par0145	Against you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0217par0146	I wish people would listen to this, and people would see it, so I'll tell you the truth.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0218par0147	Look, here it is, you call it, you find it.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0219par0148	It's in your favor.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0220par0149	Against you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0221par0150	It's in your favor.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0222par0151	It's in your favor.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0223par0152	It's in your favor.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0224par0153	Did you agree against him in favor of the parties? I'll give it to you accordingly.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0225par0154	Against you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0226par0155	In favor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0227par0156	Against you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0228par0157	In favor, Mr. President. Against Oktay Vural, in favor of Mr. Canikli, against Ali Riza Özturk... Yeah, I'm starting a procedural debate. Nurettin Canikli, Giresun MP.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0229par0162	Mr. President, what does this have to do with the procedural debate that the House Council is neutral?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0230par0163	Please take your seat, Mr. Young. There's no such thing as a way to get up from there and come out front.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0229par0164	No, what does this have to do with the procedure of establishing the House Council as a neutral? It's a matter of the simplest mind. People who don't understand try to do that.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0231par0167	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Now, we just had a really interesting discussion. You all know the drill. At the request and request of our opposition Councilwoman friend, an AK PARTY member of the Court, began to serve in his place for a temporary period of time, and then there were objections. Now, look, first of all, there's the principle, there's the practice, it's true, and there's got to be a friend of ours here from the opposition.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0229par0169	Why are you arguing the opposite of what's right?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0231par0170	So it's perfectly natural, there's no problem with that, but there's no rule that it's going to happen, that's one. I don't want to...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0229par0171	Yeah, yeah. If he's not neutral, this House won't work.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0231par0172	So I'm saying it has to be, so in the spirit of this policy, it has to be governed by a more objective, more democratic structure. No one can object to that. The problem is, I've just said the reason, so we've told you why we're in this situation. There is no situation here that stems from us, nor does it come from the Court. It's perfectly natural, it can always be done. From time to time, our friends' excuses allow other friends to change to help or support, which is perfectly normal. It's not the first time this has happened, it's been so long. Also, let's say there's also logic -- our friends from the opposition didn't come or could not come. We took a break, we invited him. They didn't come or they didn't come, so it could be because they had to. What's it gonna be? Are we going to shut down the coven?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0229par0174	No, sir, then a council member from the opposition will be elected temporary. You don't know that, you don't know that.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0231par0175	I'm asking you guys, is that okay? So you're going to go from here... because that's the rest of it, and then you're going to demand it.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0229par0176	Then choose a temporary member of the Court of Opposition. Don't fucking talk! And speak not of that which ye know not, nor of that which ye have no sense. You don't know. You don't know. We're teaching you minds!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0231par0177	Then, when he doesn't show up, when he can't come, you'll say... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Is there such a logic, my friends, that such a request? You know, the procedure is correct. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0232par0182	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0233par0183	Learn, learn... learn a little!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0232par0184	This is Oktay Vural, MP of İzmir.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0234par0186	Mr. President, as the National Movement Party, we all know that this major city municipal law really is dynamite for Turkey's future, and that we are using all the resources we have, our democratic rights from the Interior Charter, and our nation is testifying. I reminded Mr. President of both the President and the President of the Commission that they had these responsibilities in front of history and the nation and that it is now a matter of individual responsibility to make a will statement about the failure of this law. Of course, while we're doing this here, it's important for the clerks there to represent the opposition, especially for the number of decisions or ballots related to roll call. Now, why are you in such a hurry here? So it was worth all the discussion? Why don't you take five? Look, it's the opposition Clerk. Now who's wrong and who's wrong? You've been wronged. You've been wronged. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] What if you took five minutes and called me?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0235par0191	You're wrong, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0234par0192	Look, he's here.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0235par0193	You're wrong.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0234par0194	Mr. Nurettin just said, "What if he doesn't show up?" There he is. You're embarrassed.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0236par0195	He might not have made it.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0234par0196	You're embarrassed. It is better for you to rule according to your consciences, rather than to rule the Assembly by command from somewhere. It'll be better. What kind of a thing is that? He's here. Who's embarrassed? Now, who's embarrassed in front of the General Assembly?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0237par0198	You wouldn't be right to raise your voice too high. You're not right.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0234par0199	You're embarrassed, embarrassed!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0237par0200	You're the one who's ashamed and you're the one who's the prisoner.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0234par0201	You didn't take five minutes, you're embarrassed. Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0237par0202	It's you... please...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0238par0203	Why are you interfering with the speaker, Mayor?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0239par0204	What kind of president is that? It's neutral, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0240par0205	Why did you change it?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0241par0206	Sir?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0240par0207	Why?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0241par0208	Well, that's the usual.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0240par0209	What happened?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0241par0210	That's the usual.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0240par0211	Yeah, that's normal!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0241par0212	Unless...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0240par0213	The usual is that you respect this demand. You're being disrespectful.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0241par0214	I respect everything, don't worry.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0240par0215	You're disrespectful to the opposition. It's your duty to protect the rights and the law of the opposition, your duty to honor and conscience.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0241par0217	Let the opposition defend their rights, let the clerks come and sit down, members.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0242par0218	What's your job, Mayor?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0240par0219	It's your duty, too!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0241par0220	No, no. There's no such thing as the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0240par0221	That statement proves you're not objective. He says that the mission of the opposition, they...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0241par0222	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0240par0223	You're the Speaker of the House. You'll be acting as a representative of the General Assembly, not the AKP Group.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0241par0224	I say it for every party.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0240par0225	Not the AKP Group...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0241par0226	I'm telling you, I'm telling them, go ahead.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0240par0227	Not the AKP Group...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0241par0228	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0243par0229	Respect the president!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0244par0230	He'll learn respect from you! You're the last one to talk!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0243par0231	You will respect the president!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0245par0232	You're done, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0246par0233	You will respect the General Assembly, we are not officers here!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0245par0235	You show respect, Mr. Vural, with your style... He's nobody's officer, of course.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0247par0236	You will respect the General Assembly!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0246par0237	You'll be respectful!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0245par0238	You be respectful first! Look at the way you look, what people will say if they see you!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0248par0239	Respect the president!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0246par0240	He's listening to you, people!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0245par0241	Jesus Christ! Yell a little louder, they can't hear, the press can't hear!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0248par0242	Respect the president!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0246par0243	You're embarrassed.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0245par0244	You're the prisoner and you're the embarrassment, Mr. Vural!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0246par0245	In order to protect the opposition's rights, we'd like to replace the clerk. That's all.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0245par0246	No, no, the Presidential Court has formed.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0246par0247	You object, shame on you!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0245par0248	Woe to you!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0246par0249	Shame on you, shame on you! There's no such thing!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0249par0250	Show some respect for the President, respect!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0250par0251	May he respect us, my dear. Is there such a thing?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0246par0252	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0251par0253	The one that doesn't fill the fig core...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0252par0254	Mehmet Ersoy, Sinop MP.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0253par0256	Mr. President, I told you before. Let's take a look at the transcripts, because I said it was in favor. Take a look at the transcripts and let's examine them.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0254par0257	Yes, Mr. Alim told me. He said, "Look at the transcripts, and then...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0252par0258	Are the transcripts ready, fellas?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0255par0259	Mr. President, aren't you ever going to lead this House objectively? Did you swear to be biased? Mr. President, are you the Deputy Speaker of the House or the AKP Group Vice President?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0252par0260	You're saying there's something in your head. You're repeating it over and over again, so what should I do, Mr. Ozturk?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0255par0261	Then come here, sit here! For God's sake, don't!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0256par0262	Let's look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0255par0263	I mean, you're making the coven nervous. You're making the coven nervous! Don't do this! You're making the coven nervous!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0257par0264	Mr. Ersoy, please sit down and I'll ask for the minutes. There's something in your head that you're repeating over the course of certain times.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0258par0266	It's not in our heads, it's you! You're acting like the AKP's deputy leader, not the Deputy Speaker of Parliament.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit05spe0257par0267	Yeah, I'm taking a five-minute break. I'll ask for the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0257par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 19th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 338. The commission and the government are in place. Now it's time for the Alim Ik, Kütahya MP, who wants to speak in favor.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0259par0006	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I took the President's word for it because he did it right, and he said that a court clerk from the opposition should be there, and that's the truth. Its application is also correct. Dear lawmakers, as the National Movement Party, we have stated that this law is the law of great poison that will bring this country into division, and we will continue to say so at every opportunity. Thus, it is natural in the sessions where such a very important law is discussed, that all groups and lawmakers, particularly the Presidential Court, must ensure that it works correctly and that the proper ground is set up. From time to time, we've all seen false ballots being sent under the roof of this great House, replaced by people who don't exist, taking responsibility for their actions, and doing wrong. We've all seen that sometimes when there are two Court clerks from the same party, they're called, although they don't have enough decisions, and then they don't come out at the roll call, not just today. For him, it is vital that the Court be neutral, first and foremost, in the health of all negotiations. Therefore, Mr. President's attitude is correct. As the National Movement Party, we will continue to react in every way and on the ground, in any way we can to ensure that this law does not come out. Because, you'll see, in a moment, you'll see, you'll have a motion from the ruling party, where all the municipal lists in addition to your entire bill will be drawn up. But what were you thinking before? Why hide it from the lawmakers when you're hiding it from the public? Now you're gonna take it off, and then what? Many of the closed municipalities are being shut down again, despite the Constitutional Court's ruling. Therefore, this bill must be withdrawn. This bill is not in favor of this nation and the country. I have made a promise in favor of your attitude, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0260par0013	Thank you. Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0261par0015	Sir, Mahmut Tanal will speak.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0260par0016	Mahmut Tanal, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0262par0018	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, Mr. President, the same can't be two clerks from power. We ask you, yesterday, I showed this book, and I have to show it again today, Mr. President, the Law of Parliament...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0263par0020	Give it to me as a gift.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0262par0021	Page 266, I read exactly...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0264par0022	Give me the gist.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0262par0023	The president who runs the merger, the clerk members can't be from the same party.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0265par0024	What is it, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0266par0025	Is that the Civil Code?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0262par0026	Now, yes, this book really reminds me of our friend, and now I'm going to put it on the stand with my notes when I leave here, and I'm going to leave it in the library of this House, but I'm going to leave it to you. This should at least be considered when such discussions arise. There's no need to waste so much House time, Mr. President. Two...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0266par0028	What clause of the Civil Code? Just say it.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0262par0029	You're also complaining about the lack of the number of clerks. Article 9 of the Civil Code states: "The General Assembly can increase the number of clerks and executive officers on the proposal of the Council of Counsellors. If it is missing, take it from the National Movement Party, and get it from the BDP, so is there no obstacle here? You can't just keep throwing it away.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0266par0030	That makes him the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0262par0031	You're an ignorant, ignorant friend of ours. That's what I'm telling you scientifically.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0266par0033	For God's sake!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0267par0034	Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0262par0035	From this point of view, if you really... The president handles every talking friend from here. Yes, I, I understand you today, wish you a great recovery, an immediate recovery. You may be in trouble, I respect it, it's human, so I really understand your feelings, but what the hell... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Don't throw your mind in the back by putting those feelings first. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0268par0042	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0262par0043	I'm also leaving this book to your president, so take advantage of it.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0268par0044	Members of parliament, the Presidential Court's watch schedule is organised monthly by the Parliamentary Presidency. On the monthly watch schedules, the opposition-impression balance of the Presidential Court is always observed, but in combination, the clerks can change with short periods of mutual consent if they are needed. In Article 55 of the Civil Charter, the president opens and closes the session if necessary. As the session continues, the office of the president and the clerk's memberships will not be idle. The decree is carried out. In the case of earlier, the clerk's memberships have not been idle. There is no violation of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0269par0045	Oh, you're still saying there isn't one. The same party doesn't have a Presidential Court. I mean, you still insist!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0270par0046	Mr. President, sir, according to Article 70 of the Civil Code, when a closed session motion is submitted, everyone except those who can be held in closed session will be removed from the meeting room. You have stated to the General Assembly that a closed session motion has been submitted.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0268par0047	No, we didn't, we just started.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0270par0048	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0268par0049	But what's it about, Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0270par0050	Sir, let it be. We'll talk about what it's about later. What it's about will be discussed in closed session.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0268par0051	Are we going to do this in closed session, what we just did?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0270par0052	No, sir. The closed session motion was submitted. You had to evacuate after you had said it. You didn't empty it.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0268par0053	Yeah. We didn't empty it, it's true.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0270par0054	When I file a closed session motion...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0268par0055	You didn't let each one of you scream from somewhere, and it's so loud.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0270par0056	Sir, not with permission or not, but with a closed session motion... you didn't listen, you told me to read it right away, but it didn't work out, you did it wrong again.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0268par0057	Okay, let's go over it again.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0271par0058	Mr. President, what mistake should we correct you for?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0268par0059	We'll find out, Mr. Vural. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0272par0060	Sir, I'm starting a discussion of procedure.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0271par0061	Against you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0273par0062	Lehte.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0272par0063	Against you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0274par0064	Please, Mr. Vural, the proposal has not been discussed here, the proposal has not been read.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0272par0065	Mr. President, look, no, you said a closed session motion, and then you didn't clear the room.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0274par0066	Mr. Vural, whatever you do, I'm going to open up a legal debate, this Parliament will work, and there will be law in this House. Yes, there will be law in this House. [[AK PARTY rankings (Bravo) voices, applause, noise from CHP and HHP rows]] Yeah, I'm starting a procedural debate.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0272par0069	We'll always say no to the law of treason.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0275par0070	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0274par0071	People are going to evaluate him. People are going to evaluate him. You say no to the law, it's your own discretion, I have no say in it, but the people will decide it.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0272par0072	You're gonna make it work right!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0274par0073	Yes, it's Recep Special who wants a word in favor.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0272par0075	The charter decides!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0276par0077	Mr. President, the most valuable MPs have been looking for our Bayram Bey, a member of the CHP at the Presidential Court...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0277par0078	He's gone, he's got the new way.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0276par0079	I'm going to be a little late, he says. After that, Mr. Bayram, I'm going to be a little late. He's taking over for a friend because he says so. First of all, your objection is disrespectful to your own friend. Instead, our friend came out and served. The applications so far... that there are not three of them from the same party, okay, the following: will the House be blocked or not, if not two of them or members of your Court?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0278par0081	The Civil Charter will allow it, and you can read the Civil Code. Go up there!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0276par0082	We, I mean... use every means of the Civil Code you can to lock down the House, not to break the law, but anything you use, mind, logic, community conscience, make appropriate demands.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0279par0083	Not to break the law, but to prevent betrayal! Memorize it carefully, Recep Special!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0280par0084	Recep, you don't know!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0279par0085	To turn you away from treason!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0281par0086	Now, the fact that you didn't take out the motion for this secret meeting just now... when has this ever happened in practice, and you're bringing it up? Guys, come on, let's get this coven started. This law will come out whether you do it or not.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0282par0088	The law of treason hasn't arrived yet! It's against the law of treason, Recep, not against you, it's against betrayal!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0281par0089	Oh, we'll work three hours, five hours, one day hard, and our people will appreciate that. My respects to all of you, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0283par0092	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0284par0093	Well, Mr. President, the men on this stand need to know how to talk. Now, here, the Court is all part of the same party, is it not?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0283par0094	This is Oktay Vural, MP of İzmir.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0285par0095	Mr. President, we, the esteemed lawmakers, are using our rights here from the Turkish National Assembly's Civil Charter. You're gonna shut us up? You're gonna shut him up? You can't take my rights, that's all! You're gonna give it a whirl! Go, go, go, go, go, go!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0283par0096	Louder, Mr. Vural! Scream, shout!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0285par0097	Just because you're there doesn't mean you can take my right from the Civil Code. According to him!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0283par0098	That's a shame!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0285par0099	You're gonna do it on this. No, sir, Parliament, you ask the commissioners who didn't run the House. Why didn't they sit here? Why didn't they sit here? Where were they? They're at the bath house?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0286par0100	Respect the president.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0283par0101	It doesn't suit the court's tone, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0285par0102	So, you think you can run the House to stop the National Movement Party from exercising its legal rights?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0283par0103	No, no, no, no one's obstructing anyone's rights.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0285par0104	You can't stop it! You can't stop it!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0283par0105	No one's stopping me. I can't...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0285par0106	You can't stop it, you can't!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0283par0107	Louder, louder, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0285par0108	We'll take our stand.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0283par0109	Scream, shout.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0285par0110	Therefore, we, according to the Civil Code, do not want our rights to be defeated, but we ask you to rule the House according to the Civil Code. When a closed session motion is submitted, it says: "Everyone is removed from the meeting room. You have declared a closed session motion. What you had to do was clear the hall first, then listen to the closed session motion. In that respect, we don't give away our rights or our law here. According to him!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0283par0111	Don't eat it.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0285par0112	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0283par0113	Yes, Alim Ikm, Kütahya MP.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0287par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. I made a promise in favor of your attitude, because you did the right thing. You said we'd go to closed session, so you've forgotten it or you've forgotten it, you've done the right thing by opening this discussion again. That's why I took your word for it.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0288par0117	The president's exhausted, so let's just drop it. Now he can't track it.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0287par0118	But there's one thing you haven't done right: you said that this Parliament will work no matter what the opposition does. Yes, let the House work, but this Parliament will work right. This House will stand up until the morning to pass the treason law, Mr. President. This is the law of treason, a law that will disrupt the unitary structure of the Republic of Turkey and disband the unity of the Turkish nation. For him, the National Movement Party will continue to resist until the end. Because everyone with common sense, every columnist who has ever praised AKP's actions today says that this is wrong. Not just the opposition, but every Turkish citizen with common sense won't approve. Today, a AKP's mayor cries out and says, "I do not approve of my rights." If so, you need to think, and you need to think. Therefore, there is no point in insisting on this law. Come, withdraw this and reassess the errors of this commission and bring a law to this House. This law is not a right law, it is a law that lays dynamite on the basis of the state of the Republic of Turkey. You'll be dynamiters. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0289par0122	Thank you. Ali Riza Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0290par0124	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, this is the parliament of the nation. This Parliament is not the parliament of the AKP Group. That's what I said. This Parliament is not the Councilor's farm. This Parliament will work and work, but it will work in accordance with the Parliament and the Constitution. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The Deputy Speaker of Parliament, who resides there, must act according to the Civil Code, according to the Constitution of 95. It is the duty of the Deputy Speaker of Parliament to run this House in accordance with the Civil Code, in accordance with the Constitution. The Deputy Speaker forgets that he's in charge of ruling the Court, neutral, and he's having unnecessary quarrels with the speakers. This has become a trend in Turkey lately. In some courts, judges pick on the defendants and the defendants, and they get into a fight. The Deputy Speaker has given up his job, and every job he's done has been based on illegal, arbitrary. What should I fix for you, Mr. Vice President? What am I supposed to fix for you?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0291par0128	Don't shout!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0290par0129	In all that you do, you do wrong, and in all that you do according to the law, and in all that you do ye do according to the law.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0292par0130	Speak without shouting.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0290par0131	You see for yourself, you're going about it yourself, and my dear friends, it's not going to happen with that head. The confused duck thingy goes away. You shall pass this law, but you shall do according to the Law, according to the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0293par0132	We're doing it right, exactly.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0290par0133	You're doing it your way. Of course, because you don't understand the law, because you don't like the law, because you don't like the law, that's what you think, my dear friends. Look, you can pass this law, but we will use the right of the opposition from the Civil Code to the end of the Constitution. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And we're not gonna have the Deputy Speaker turn this House into a farm. The Speaker directs the Parliament according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0294par0138	We're going to use the authority we get from the community to the fullest.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0295par0139	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0296par0140	Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0295par0141	The closed session motion has been submitted on the motion, which means the motion will be discussed in closed session, but we're not discussing it right now, so we're not discussing the motion on closed session. Therefore, the debate without closed session is correct, Mr. President. Because we can't discuss these things until we're closed, or we shouldn't be seeing each other. Therefore, the procedure is absolutely correct. And I'd like to emphasize that right here.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0297par0142	Mr. Canikli said there is a closed motion. That's not what he's gonna say.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0296par0143	Thank you. [[Continue]] Members of the Parliaments have been asked to conduct the motion of MPs from the National Movement Party's Party on Article 338 on Article 19 of the Law Bill No. 338, but the motion has been filed in closed session before proceeding with the motion. The application of the amendment will be processed and will now be closed. There is a motion in accordance with Article 70 of the Interior Charter, which states that the last motion on Article 19 of the Law Bill 338 shall be discussed in closed session.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0298par0151	Mr. President, there are deaf and dumb crows during the House's work, you'll bring them in.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0296par0152	I'm reading the motion for closed session...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0298par0153	President, look, when we go into closed session, there are deaf and dumb cavasses, here, taking money from the House; you'll call them, they'll serve here. Oh, now, my friend, we're not doing this today, we've been doing this for years! No, take a break now, call them in, bring them in. Yeah, well, that's an app. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Now, Mayor, we're talking to you, don't you have a tongue, or don't you hear? I'm just saying, it's not possible for friends of Kabas here to be here.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0296par0155	We discussed it yesterday, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0298par0156	They can't possibly be here!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0296par0157	I'm reading the motion for closed session: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On behalf of the group, we call for a closed session of the MHP Group proposal on Article 19 of the Law Bill 338.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0299par0166	What kind of closed session is this?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0300par0167	There are still some who haven't.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit06spe0296par0168	The audience and the officials who are not members of the General Assembly, who can be present at the closed session, must go outside. I'd like to ask your supervisors to ensure that the hall is cleared.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0296par0001	I now open the Ninth Session of the 19th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey after the closed session. [[Continue]] Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0301par0008	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0296par0009	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0302par0010	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0303par0011	So, have you been in an open session, or have you been in an open session?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0296par0012	Yes, it's Reşat Petek who wants a word on the motion, the Slap Congressman.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0304par0013	I'm sorry, are you in an open session, Mayor?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0305par0014	It's Reşat Right, sir. It's Reşat Right. Your mind is in Reşat Petek.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0296par0015	I'm sorry, Mr. Right. Reşat Right, Slap Congressman. Please...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0306par0018	Mr. President, I'm sorry, are you in an open session, Mr. President? You're in open session? If you've been in an open session, you've done it wrong, because...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0307par0019	You did it wrong, without asking Tanal.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0306par0020	Yeah, without asking me... Look, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0308par0022	Mr. Tanal, Mr. Right is standing on the stand, so this is not...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0306par0023	Mr. President, look, you made a mistake. I'm sorry, look, I'll read to you again, if you'll excuse me: the terms for the closed session will be lifted so that you can enter the open session. It's up, right, and you need to submit it to the General Assembly's vote. Look, the Civil Code...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0308par0024	Please, Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0306par0025	You didn't do that.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0309par0026	He did it, he did it.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0306par0027	Look, you can't make that promise to the clerk without doing it.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0310par0028	Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0311par0029	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have made a promise to remove the 19th Amendment from the draft text of Bill 338, which we are discussing. I salute the High Council. With this motion, we ask that the 19th Amendment be removed from the bill, but we ask that the entire law be withdrawn. The law on the establishment of 13 major cities and the closure of 1,582 municipalities is unfortunately discussed in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. In view of the name of the law, even though it is explained to the public as an innocent law, it seems to be a trap law, that there are various issues in it, and that they are closed. Congressmans, why is the infrastructure of the transition to the federation with the proposed Metropolitan Legislature not wanted to be seen? Why is it that some of the Justice and Development Party officials don't accept what everyone has identified, and why are you trying to defend it in such a brutal way? However, does the withdrawal of the limits of the city's municipalities to the city's borders, the mayor's rule over the entire province not necessarily indicate transitioning to regional governance and the state system? Why don't we accept that. Isn't that a response to calls for democratic autonomy and autonomy based on the region, which has been imposed by separatist and destructive elements for years? Doesn't the request come to an end, Mr. Lawmakers? This is not in favour of our country. A painting that is a service to internal and external separatist elements will cost our country very, very much in the coming hours. This law must be withdrawn and not approved by the House. No one, no one, will be able to pay for it for the rest of their lives. Members of parliament, this law must be opposed not only by the Nationalist Movement Party members, but by all communities, by all NGOs, the entire Turkish nation. One thing we don't understand is why the AKP Group is trying to take over this law, which is so obvious and its evidence is obvious. Is there pressure, is there a threat, is there blackmail? You can think of a number of questions. This law is a false law that reveals different intentions and goals, not just an innocent law. It's the law of the so-called democracy of the terrorist organization that martyred thousands of our people in the mountains, wounded, destroyed thousands of our citizens, destroyed our country's billions of dollars' worth of resources. This law will serve as a blessing to those who want to divide our nation by separating ethnically. It will destroy the founding law and philosophy of the Republic of Turkey and will end the nation's sovereignty. Let's not condemn our country to a twilight zone or change our national presence. This bill, which will bring major problems to our country's regime and administration, is considered by experts as a violation of our Constitution, which is a violation of the Constitution; let's not violate the Constitution. In addition, many municipalities in Anatolia are closed by this law. It's not right to shut down the municipalities. Bringing them back to village status will speed up the migration that exists around here. The town of slaps is losing its population. In this province, where we are MPs, 42 municipalities will be shut down, 42 municipalities of 70 municipalities will be closed down, so with this law, I imagine that our province of Tokat, which has given a great migration, along with the law, will continue to give huge migrations, perhaps even lower populations. Let's not play with the Turkish nation's fate. Let's take this bill off the nation's agenda and move on to the real, real agenda. People can't find bread, they can't produce farmers, they lose their job, they lose their vaccine, society is pushed into psychological depression. How will the Justice and Development Party pay the consequences? The bride says, "Let's withdraw this law that will lead our country to adventure, which is unknown, and bring it back as a law in the interests of the nation, and I salute the High Council."
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0312par0041	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 338 Deputized Metropolitan Municipality Law and the 19th Amendment to the Constitution of some Laws and Laws. Article 5393 under Law 75. We propose and propose that the clause added to the clause be removed from the item text. Birgül Ayman Güler (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0313par0048	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0314par0049	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0312par0050	The person who wants to speak on the motion is Candan Asüçer, Tekirdağ MP.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0315par0052	Dear lawmakers, when we first heard of the Metropolitan Law, we were excited that Tekirdağ is the capital city. We are truly happy for our countrymen and our city, but as long as we have knowledge of the content of the bill, and as we are now, our joy -- if necessary -- remained in our midst. Everyone is anxious; in Tekirdağ, in our city we are a city. There is no excitement, no joy. But in the process of being a big city, we had our support and our desire. However, when we examine the bill, we see that it aims not to strengthen democracy, participation, efficiency, growth; unfortunately, it aims to lift it, weaken it, and unfortunately, its political goals are in the lead again. The bill came to the Commission in the form of the government secret, quickly, in secret; it was not asked to be discussed quickly in the commission and discussed with its work performance over the past 12 hours. We understand you, from a great place, under the law for you. In fact, when the government sat down to prepare the bill, perhaps the intention was to strengthen the local governments. But there's a joke: the scorpion walked, walked, came to the edge of a lake; he couldn't pass, he called out to the frog, he said, "Can you get me across?" He said, "No, if I take you, you'll let me in." But when he was convinced, he took it on his back, and he was halfway there, and he suddenly felt a pain, and he turned around, and what did you do? What did you do, scorpion, what should I do? He said, "I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it. In Tekirdağ, in this process, we wanted to sit together in such a vital, vital bill that concerns our city, our citizens -- at least, or as we are talking about in commissions today -- to discuss it with our city with our general council members, with our mayors, with our civil society agencies, with our mayors, with our property managers, with our curves, with our curves, we wanted to discuss it with the truth, with the benefit-care analysis. But unfortunately, our -- let it go -- even our efforts to reach the bill have failed. However, the draft for the capital city should be shared with the public, with its curve, with its advantages discussed with its disadvantages, and prepared the most appropriate urban law for the needs of those provinces. Tekirdağ people, we wanted neither a small city nor a large city, and while we are doing so, we are not informed of this bill, nor are we asked for our opinions. But in our city, in our village, in our province, we have been excluded from this process, which concerns us, our lives, our future. The primary conditions of democracy are to respect the will of the people, to promote participation and pluralism. One of the best examples of public participation is municipalities. Local governments are the closest, most participatory, most democratic public institutions to the public. What are you guys doing? You're taking down 1.591 city hall, no justification, no explanations, no questions asked the public. However, in countries that have digested democracy, they strive to strengthen local governments. Our advanced democrats, unfortunately, say, "I don't ask, I don't consult, I don't answer, I do what I do." It's an advanced design of advanced democracy, but there's no democracy in it, there's no participation. Look, as the Republican People's Party, we did what the AKP didn't do, we applied to the people's will. We asked the local municipalities: do you want your municipality to be closed or not? In Tekirdağ, of the 49,074 voters in my district, 22,810. On what grounds does the government oppose this will and shut down the municipalities of this city? How democratic is the closure of the city of Belde without resorting to the will of that city? Dear MPs, you remove the corporate personality of 16,080 villages, including forest villages, the corporate personality of the county's general private administrations in 29 counties, the corporate personality of the county's general parliaments, the legal personality of the villages. Where there's no representation, where there's no participation, there's no democracy? Can you say that we are strengthening the local government with this bill? Look, we have 257 villages in Tekirdağ with 140 forest villages. Our farmers are trying to produce it. In spite of many difficulties, this country, this nation... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...trying to contribute, but unfortunately, with high inputs, high cost, poor agricultural policies, I think you're going to end up with this bill. If these problems don't work out, unfortunately, otherwise I'm just saying that if our names and problems don't grow, it'll just be our cities; I'm saying don't be afraid to resort to democracy, to the will of the people. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0316par0063	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0317par0066	Mr. President, the meeting is enough...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0316par0067	I will submit the motion to your votes. There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Guler, Mr. Serutça, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Candan Yüceer, Mr. Acar, Mr. Akar, Mr. Öner, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Ören, Mr. Special, Mr. Editoglu, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu, Mr. Öğün, Mr. Öncün. I'll give you a minute. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Metropolitan Municipality Law 338 rows, the 19th Amendment to the Constitution of the Law and the Law shall be made. Joint service projects can be carried out with vocational rooms under the Law of the Business and Minor Artists No. 5362 (c) in exchange with the clause (c). İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0318par0084	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0316par0085	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0319par0086	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0316par0087	Altan Tan has asked for a statement on the motion, Diyarbakır MP.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0320par0088	Mr. President, lawmakers, in this law, there are provisions concerning the privileges of the places of worship. Of course, one of the most controversial issues in this framework is whether the mosques are a temple. There has been serious discussion, but, unfortunately, unofficial answers have been given. Asking Mr. Minister and Mr. Chairman of the Commission, "Are the houses of worship?," the authorities said, "They are not according to the chair of the Ministry of Religious Affairs." Now, dear friends, it's all a crooked approach. What do you need to fix? It's gonna take a really long conversation, but I'll sum up my ideas as soon as possible. Dear friends, while describing the Republic of Turkey, it is described as a democratic and secular legal state. The first is that the democratic and secular legal system will decide where it is based, where it is, where it is not a place of worship, and where it is not a place of worship, is the answer to the idea, the opinion, the opinion, the religion, the religion, the faith that people will give with their own free will. If our citizens of Alevi in Turkey are saying that the temple is for us. They are saying that the secular, democratic, legal state is to accept the declaration of those citizens and accept it as a sanctuary. Just as an Ezidi citizen, if he accepts a place of worship according to his own belief, it is also accepted by the state. If there were Buddhists in this country, or any other faith, Brahmanimmism, or Confucianism, the place of worship for them is also a place of worship for the state. A second issue: If you are looking at the issue in terms of Islamic law again, then there is a much more serious issue. According to the Islamic law, it is forbidden to have religion at the command of the state, according to the fetishes of all four peoples and community imams and the fetish of the Imam Jaferi Sadik. You have to ask Mr. Chairman of Religious Affairs: Cemevler is not a temple, but the mosques are not a temple. You say that. Is it lawful or forbidden, according to Islamic law, that religion should be under the rule of the state? Is that true or not, according to the belief of secularism? Dear friends, we're arguing on the wrong floor. If only we could do this during this period, when we were in the writing process of the new Constitution: if we could free all religious and religious beliefs, we could get them out of control of the state, out of justice, out of civil society. It's the same for Islamic law, and it's the same for secularism. In Turkey, however, there is a situation that is so strange that neither Islamic law can be applied nor can its sense of secularism be fully implemented. The state is in complete control of religion, and the Sunni and Hanefi, which are in its own best interest, by exclusion of malik, Hanefi, Hanefa, Shafii, and also by eliminating Alevilik and Shii, because in Turkey, especially Igdir, we have Shii brothers who have the faith of Jaferi in the Kars region. So it's up to the state today to make all these arrangements, to provide these freedoms, and to make an arrangement by accepting what the citizens of Alevi in Turkey accept on the basis of their own statements. Like I said, it's a long talk. I wish we had time so we could have a long talk. Hopefully, it will come to pass. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0321par0097	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0322par0101	Mr. President, we're requesting a roll call.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0321par0102	I'll call. Mr. Ozink, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Havutça, Mr. Guler, Mr. Acar, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Akar, Mr. Öner, Mr. Dudu, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Ediboğlu, Mr. Karaahmetoglu, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Öğün. I'll give you a minute. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit the following sentence to the first clause (c) of Article 5393 of Article 5393, which has been replaced by Article 19 of the Law and Law Act. "For joint service projects with other associations and foundations, the permission of the head of the largest property manager must be taken." Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0323par0119	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0321par0120	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0324par0121	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0321par0122	I'm having it read. It is intended to be granted permission by the chief of the largest property manager of the municipality for joint service projects, which will be carried out with associations and foundations outside of municipalities working for the public benefit.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0325par0127	We want roll call.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit08spe0321par0128	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Ozürk, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Havutça, Mr. Guler, Mr. Acar, Mr. Akar, Mr. Öner, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Special, Mr. Dudu, Mr. Karaahmetoglu, Mr. Topal, Mr. Öğütü, Mr. Altay, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Dörtutan. I'll give you a minute. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. Members of parliament, there is a motion for an open vote on the 19th article of the bill, to read the motion and call for signatures. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We move that the 19th Amendment vote be held by open vote. A scholar's Light? Here. You got it, Lightning? Here. Sadir Durmaz? Here. Mehmet Erdogan? Here. Enver Erdem? Here. Necati Özensoy? Here. Zuhal Topman? Here. Lütfü Türkkan? Here. Celal Adan? Here. Amin Çınar? Here. Rusar Demirel? Here. You did, Yilmaz? Here. D. Ali Torlak? Here. Mustafa Erdem? Here. Reşat Right? Here. Sure Haluk Ayhan? Here. Mehmet Günal? Here. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu? Here. Mehmet Shandır? Here. Ali Öz? Here. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you a minute, and I'll start the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the conclusion of the 19th article is a clear vote: ▪ Number of votes used : 223 [[x]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Mine Lök White The 19th article was thus accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0321par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the tenth session of the 19th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue the talks of Bill 338. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on Article 20: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "A draft of İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanıkulu and 20 MPs; Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba and 22 MPs; Balıkesir MP Ayşe Nedret Akova; Aydın MP Ali Uzırmak's; Tekirdağ MP Bült Belen; İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal; Malatya MP Öznur Çalak and 14 MPs's Law Commission Report"; No. At the first meeting of the council, we would like to request that the announcement be changed to the first meeting of the assembly in a late month. Enver Erdem Mehmet Erdogan Alim Ik S. Nevzat Korkmaz Zühal Topcu Sadir Won't stop Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Metropolitan Municipality Law 338 rows, the 20th Amendment to certain Laws and Laws shall be adopted. I'd like to propose and change the Article to the following way. Article 20 - "The State Special Administration Act No. 22/2/2005 and Article 13 of Article 13 of Article 5302 "Presents of the State" were added to the first meeting following the declaration of "the State's First Assembly," and the sentence following this declaration was "The Day is announced to the public in various ways in accordance with the culture and structure of the region." Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora İdris Bauken Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 338 Deputized Metropolitan Municipality Law and the 20th Amendment to the Law and Law Act. We offer and propose that the Article be removed from the Charter text. Ali Serindağ Birgül Ayman Güler Muharrem Işim Ali Haydar Öçar Öçar Ön Öldan Üşer Celal Dinçer Kadir Gökmen Öğüt Öğük Havutça Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0326par0030	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0321par0031	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0327par0032	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0321par0033	Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin, who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0328par0035	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I wish to inform all Erdemli people of the flood in the district of Erdemli, my constituency district. I wish that the government, the government, will heal the wounds of our citizens, who are truly devastated by the flood. My dear friends, with this bill, 16,082 villages in Turkey are converted into neighborhoods, and 1,592 districts are neighborhoods. These are actually half the municipalities in Turkey, half the villages. My constituency is being converted into a neighborhood in Mersin. Eight of them are in Silifke, in my own accident. Now, for as long as I can remember, our Stony town has been run by a municipality and is the gateway to Cyprus. Now, with this law, this town is being taken away, the neighborhood is being built, but when this town is being taken away, the people's will is never asked, the Prime Minister, who has not dropped a referendum the other day, has said this is what the public wants, the survey. But I'm curious, why hasn't he done a survey on the closure of municipalities in this town? For example, there are 6,147 voters in Taşçüçı, 3,041 put in a vote, and they say, "Don't touch my station, don't touch my municipality." Another one of our major districts of Tarsus, Yenice (also), 4,080 of the 5,662 voters voted, and 4,086 of them said, "Don't touch the station." So are the cities of the righteous, and the cities of Mersin. My dear friends, this is a demonstration of how much this power respects the will of the people, and we see what it understands from the will of the people. Dear friends, I'd like to make one more point on this occasion. In his speech yesterday, Mr. Interior Minister explained to Mr. Adnan Keskin, Vice President of the Republican People's Party, the reason for the police's attack, and said that the police acted as such to prevent a possible attack on police officers. My dear friends, the Ministry of the Interior is a ministry responsible for the peace and security of the nation, tasked with protecting the lives and property of individuals. The police aren't responsible for attacking first, they're responsible for preventing the attack, but the media reports show that these events are not very accurate. Look, Adnan Keskin, Bihlun Tamayligil, Hope Akdoğan and Gül Farmer, these are the executives of our party, and when they get there, the police first say, "Get away from them." You know, in our villages, they put guys like that in the pen or they lock the fish in the barn, so they say, "Get away." They start spraying pepper spray. After that, when they say, "Let's take a breath," the citizens get pepper spray, and when Adnan Keskin says, "What's going on?" A ranking police chief or police officer grabs Adnan Keskin. While our Minister of Interior is explaining this, why don't you here -- it's very meaningful, my friends -- I really reject it and condemn it -- why don't you condemn the driver of Adnan Keskin, who injured a police officer?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0329par0043	Why don't you blame him?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0328par0044	Excuse me. Now, my friends, this is a matter of judgment, which is being investigated. How did Mr. Home Secretary know that this person was attacking that police officer before it was clear in the investigation that this person had actually harmed the police? So far, those who complain about the military state are now bringing in the state of police, and police have been circling the home of Adnan Keskin. They go first. No.17. There's prostitution in the house of lulu. They say, "Well, there's a disgrace to that person and there's a trial yesterday." In court -- when there used to be generals -- when there was a crowded, military case -- they all left together -- the chief of police, up to 50, gave up his job... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and now after the prosecutor's release, those police chiefs are following him, taking him out of his house, and when Mr. Muharrem Tüz is gone, the police chief is fleeing. If there's a search warrant on that person, if there's a legal search warrant, why is that police chief running away, dear friends? If you don't mind... the verdict has been made, Mr. Secretary. I don't know if you're aware of this or not, but I don't want your cop friends to go and follow you in sentimentality illegally.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0330par0048	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0328par0049	Let them do what they have to do, first let them answer for that attack, ask him about it. And as I said, it's not right for you to comment on this investigation without a verdict, before the investigation is over. I think it's wrong for respect of the state of law. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0331par0053	We get it, we get it.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0328par0054	You think you'll understand? Where is he? Where's the head to understand you?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0331par0055	Count to the left.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0328par0056	Where's that head of yours? You wouldn't say anything if you knew. Once you respect me, you don't say shit! If you've got the guts, you'll go out there and talk. If you've got any guts, you'll talk there!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0332par0057	I will submit the motion to your votes.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0333par0060	We want roll call.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0332par0061	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Ozturk, Mr. Kesimoğlu, Mr. Havutça, Mr. Güler, Mr. Acar, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Akar, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Ören, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Captain, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Kaleli. I'll give you a minute. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Metropolitan Municipality Law 338 rows, the 20th Amendment to certain Laws and Laws shall be adopted. I'd like to propose and change the Article to the following way. Article 20 - "The State Special Administration Act No. 22/2/2005 and Article 13 of Article 13 of Article 5302 "Presents of the State" were added to the first meeting following the declaration of "the State's First Assembly," and the sentence following this declaration was "The Day is announced to the public in various ways in accordance with the culture and structure of the region." Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does Mr. Commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0334par0079	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0332par0080	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0335par0081	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0332par0082	Asked for a word, Alton Tan, Diyarbakır MP.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0336par0083	Mr. President, when this bill came to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the government's biggest defense was: (The government was forced to hand over powers to the country due to the difficulty of governance in centrality, so, for the sake of the idea of decentralisation, which has been discussed in Turkey for over a hundred years, such an arrangement has been made so that the country can be managed better. Of course, if such an arrangement had been made, we would support it from the heart. But what we see now is that, in my previous speech, we are faced with a bill that I have highlighted in detail, in which I have explained in detail, what is the co-ordination presidency of investments, what is the extent of its powers, its responsibilities, and the extent of its interference, with new freaky needs that are not yet fully understood, leaving the transfer of power of the centre to the country, the power of the center and the intervention are even stronger. In this bill, it is also conducted in the districts of Geothermal Resources, dated 3/6/2007, dated 4/6/1985 and under Mining Waters Law 3213, under the Mining Waters Act 3213, with the authority and duties of natural mineral water licenses issued according to the Mining Waters Act 3/6/2007. Dear friends, as you can see so clearly and clearly, it can bring revenue in a province, it can turn into a ranta, here, written and stated, from geothermal resources to the mines, their licenses, the way they operate, and again, all the permits for these are given to the governorship. Before, again, a significant portion of these powers were in the county's private administration; at least, again, there were select people who acted with the governor, but by this arrangement, all of those elected from that province are being eliminated. Since the state's private administration has been shut down, the elected people have been completely eliminated, and the city council, which has been formed in their place, is not authorized. I'm asking the ministers, all the ministers who are here now, and to the President of the Commission, please, explain the logic of this. I mean, people who were chosen in a city, in a district... let's give Diyarbakir for example: marble mines, coal mines. Why don't you give the chosen one any authority? Why don't you get them involved in any way? Why don't you get any ideas? Please, if there's a logical answer to this, come out and explain it here. And the same way, for example, there's Cermik district in Diyarbakır; there's hot springs; there's geothermal, there's wide possibilities. And today, geothermal resources are not just used as a spa but as a greenhouse, but as a geothermal resource, from the greenhouses to the production of my science. Again, you don't give any authority over these things to the chosen ones. I mean, if this isn't just about a sense of rant, for God's sake, what else is there? So every time we get a chance like this, we go out and tell about the irregularities in this new law. Likewise, local governments are not allowed to provide local taxes or incentives in any way. This is one of the greatest shortcomings of the law. We'll continue to explain the shortcomings. My respects.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0337par0091	Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0338par0095	We want roll call.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0337par0096	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Ozturk, Mr. Kesimoğlu, Mr. Havutça, Mr. Güler, Mr. Acar, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Öğüt, Mr. Akar, Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Genghis, Mr. Eyün, Mr. Kören, Mr. Ediboğlu, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu, Mr. Dudu, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Tayan. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0339par0100	Run Ramazan, run! Go, go, go!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0337par0102	Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Of İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanzkulu and 20 MPs; of Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba and 22 MPs; of Balıkesir MP Ayşe Nedret Akova.; of Aydın MP Ali Uzırmak At the first meeting of the meeting of the council, we would like to request that the announcement be changed to the first meeting of the assembly in a late month. Enver Virtue and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0340par0114	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0337par0115	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0341par0116	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0337par0117	Lütfü Türkkan who wants a word on the motion is the MP of Kopeeli.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0342par0119	Mr. President, dear members, first of all, we're very upset about this Ramadan Can friend of ours.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0343par0120	You feel sorry for yourself.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0342par0121	So as the MPs gather backstage, we shout: "Run Ramadan, run, backstage. " You know, in elementary school, like the syllables. So keep this serious here, sit down, or go watch the game, sleep at home. But if I were you, I'd sit here and face this law. I'll stand like a lion. Some honor, some dignity, some honor, some honor...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0344par0122	Mr. Turkkan, please...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0342par0123	...you stand before this law.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0345par0125	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0344par0126	Mr. Turkkan, please...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0346par0127	Take that back!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0347par0128	Take that back!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0348par0129	What kind of talk is that? Take that back!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0349par0130	I'm giving it back to you!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0350par0131	This betrayal does not suit Mr. Home Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0351par0132	Mr. Turkkan, please...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0350par0133	This betrayal does not suit the President of the Commission. We know both of them well and well that they believe in the integrity of this land.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0351par0135	Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0350par0136	But fighting honor, honor, honor is harder than fighting dishonor.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0351par0137	Mr. Turkkan, don't you think those words are appropriate?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0352par0138	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0350par0139	Don't get angry...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0352par0140	Son of a bitch!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0353par0141	Mr. Turkkan, please, speak in a clean language.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0350par0142	Don't be angry... think of the fate of the land.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0352par0143	Son of a bitch!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0354par0144	You're the bastard and you're the bastard!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0350par0145	And don't you get angry. Unscheduled lady, locate him, then get angry!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0355par0147	Mr. Turkkan, please, speak in a clean language.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0350par0148	Don't do this... Stop all this... fake bullying, be a gentleman.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0355par0149	Mr. Turkkan, please, speak in a clean language.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0350par0150	Be good, master! Get out of this business. There's no need for fake bullying. Let's go... there's no need...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit09spe0355par0151	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0355par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th session of the 19th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 338. The commission and the government are in place. Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0356par0005	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0355par0006	Mr. Turkkan, I invite you to apologize. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0356par0008	Can you promise me my place?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0357par0010	No, this way, from the stand!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0355par0011	One moment, Mr. Lawmakers, please...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0358par0012	Mr. President, for the sake of the following events, our friend...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0359par0013	Just a minute... open up, I'm coming to the stand.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0358par0014	How will it be if you leave without listening to us, Lütfü?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0360par0015	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0359par0018	Mr. President, dear members, for one thing, I have never had a statement about anyone's individual, about the intention of insulting them. There are two choices: Look, either you'll listen to me or if you have the heart to speak. It's that clear.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0361par0020	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0362par0021	Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0363par0022	Is that why you called?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0362par0023	If you're a boy, if you're a man, if you're a man, come out and say it!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0364par0024	Congressman, please...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0365par0025	You'll send your father, not you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0366par0027	What did he say? What did he say? What did he say? Listen to what he said. He hasn't said anything yet.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0367par0028	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0365par0029	You'll send your father away!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0368par0030	It doesn't suit you, it doesn't suit you!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0369par0031	What else did he say? He didn't say anything! Listen to what he's saying! You're not listening!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0370par0032	Congressmans, please... we've invited Mr. Turkkan to apologize.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0371par0033	Yes, Mr. Lütfü...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0372par0034	Mr. President, either shut me up or I'll take my seat. There are two choices. That's not possible!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0373par0035	If you sit down, sit down!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0374par0036	Mr. Turkkan, please sit down.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0372par0037	Again, I'm not referring to the target of offensive remarks about no one's person.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0373par0038	Sit down!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0375par0039	Why don't you finish it and talk about it?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0372par0040	What I'm trying to say is, I repeat, is that this law is as important as the honor, honor and dignity of the National Party of Action. In Article 81 of the Constitution...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0376par0042	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, when he's finished, please...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0377par0043	You said it... don't move!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0378par0044	Don't twist!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0379par0045	In Article 81 of the Constitution...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0380par0046	Congressmans, let him finish. Please...
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0379par0047	Look, can I tell you something? I'm the man who stood up straight on the death penalty law. I'm not here, I'm a man on trial for execution. What the hell? What's this?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0381par0048	It suits you. It suits you.
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0379par0049	What twist? What are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0381par0050	Turn it, turn it!
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0382par0052	He hasn't said anything yet! You want to fight?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0383par0053	Why are you doing the hand gesture?
tbmm-2012-11-09sit10spe0384par0054	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
