tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 106th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first off-the-book statement belongs to Giresun MP Selahtin Karaahmetoglu, who asked for the appointment of May 14th Pharmaceutical Day. Here you are, Mr. Karaahmetoglu.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0002par0016	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs on May 14th Pharmaceutical Day. Before we get to it, I'm afraid I'm going to have to give you some sad news. Four of our citizens were killed during the landslide during the work of HES in the village of Kızıltaş, Giresun. Again, Kemal Aycı, a member of Republican People's Party Yagele district who was shot in the head due to an unknown bullet in the head during the championship celebrations in Yolale district of Giresun, has lost his life, I beg Allah's mercy. From here, I celebrate the meaningful days of all our pharmacists, especially the Union of Turkish Pharmaceuticals, and of the workers who work at the pharmacy. The Association of some 30,000 pharmacists and Turkish Pharmaceutical Pharmaceutical Pharmaceuticals, with a key task among health chain and health professionals, celebrates the 173rd year of the Association of Scientific Pharmaceutical Pharmaceuticals on 14 May. Unfortunately, pharmacy pharmaceuticals no longer exist, struggle to survive. The profession of pharmaceuticals, as old as human history, serves society to improve public health faster and more effectively for the hundred and seventy-three years it gained institutionalism through scientific education. Health and greater health for all, although the profession of pharmaceuticals and health in our country and the world has had significant changes, the thinking of medicine has never changed. Pharmaceuticals serve in the most remote part of our country, even in villages without doctors, bringing medicine to the feet of a citizen. The role of the pharmacist is very important in the complex process from the quality and quantitative development of the profession of pharmaceuticals, from the production of drugs to the way they serve services, from education to service areas. In addition, we should add the counseling that pharmacists provide to their patients. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the country's agenda today, we see a daily report of violence against health workers. Unfortunately, we can't get in the way of that. Why can't we get through? While we're still discussing it, on the one hand, the health care provider actors are doing their jobs with sacrifice, taking every risk. My pharmaceutical colleagues are sometimes subjected to violence, under pressure. But the most basic approach of pharmacists is to create a healthier individual, a healthier society. And for the facility of this plan, they're facing all kinds of trouble, problems, despite all the humps on their backs, so to speak, they're not leaving their ship because they know they're needed. First, I have to make it clear that we invite health workers, health care servers, and health care providers to recognize our responsibilities together to build a healthier future for our children. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we need to hear the voice of our pharmacists who have performed the offer of health care without fail. We cannot turn our backs and turn our backs on our pharmacists, who, despite the sacrifices and risks they've suffered by any arrangement, are responsible for drug service to our citizens, the people our people trust the most. Because health is an area of public and health care servers that we all benefit from. This area is one with each unit. The services produced in this area differ from the other areas of products and services. The ultimate goal of health care is to increase public interest and maintain patient health. Because of May 14th Pharmaceutical Day, I salute my 12 colleagues in Parliament, 30,000 pharmacists.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0003par0028	Thank you, Karaahmetoglu. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Malatya MP Öznur Çalık. Here you go, Mr. Çurk.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0004par0033	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, on behalf of myself on behalf of the World Pharmaceutical Day of May 14th, I salute your grand delegation. Before I begin my word off the agenda, I say I'm sorry for all of us for the mercy of two of our dear friends. Mr. Mustafa Cumur and Şanlıurfa, our MP, Cenap Gülpınar. I wish you God's mercy and my condolences to all of us. Dear lawmakers, for the first time in the world on May 14, 1839, pharmaceutical activities took place, and today, we celebrate the 173 years of scientific medicine, and again on May 14th, as well as the 44th anniversary of Pharmaceutical Day. Today is the day of the opening of the school of pharmaceuticals at the Institute of Medicine, which is the first time in our country today, a hundred and seventy-three years ago, scientific pharmaceuticals began. On this occasion, I celebrate the Day of Pharmaceuticals of all my colleagues who work in four parts of Turkey, in cities, towns, villages, hospitals, and different workplaces. The contributions to human health by our colleagues who strive to defend their natural right to health can never be denied or ignored. Pharmaceuticals serve, labors in order for this country's people to live a better quality of life. And today, pharmacists discuss their problems, try to come up with solutions, and this country never fails to contribute to its people's health. And we, as pharmacists in Parliament, as government, are all working very hard and very hard together to solve the problems of our pharmacists. My fellow lawmakers, the successful political administration in Turkey is slowly building the life of a society with an elevated standard of living perspective. The start of Turkey's simultaneous rise in all areas is 2002. Since then, we've accomplished such jobs and raised the bar so high that we're now talking about entering among the top ten largest economies in the world, and one of the high goals we've set is bringing Turkey to its rightful place in health. The start of the great health reform process, which we started in health, was given in 2003 by the Change in Health Programme, and significant steps have been taken in health in Turkey. Please remember, where was the health in Turkey before November 3, 2002? SEC hospitals were separate, state hospitals were separate, private hospitals were separate, university hospitals were separate. When our sick citizens went to the hospital, three people would go; one would go to the doctor's line, one would go to the pharmacist's tail, and the other would go to the line to deposit the money, and the pharmacy tails would go to the head. What did we do? We've helped all of our SEC patients and our patients with green cards take drugs from free pharmacies, and we've upgraded our colleagues' patient portfolio to a very serious extent. Of course, as this rate rose, our colleagues' workforce and workforce increased at this rate, and we merged the Retirement Ark, BUG-KUR, and created our Social Security Agency. Now, with the protocol between the Turkish Association of Pharmaceuticals and our Social Security Foundation, for the first time, we have received a very important right per prescription that the Turkish Pharmaceuticals Association has been talking about over the years and will now start paying 25 cents a prescription. If you remember in the past period, it was always said about our pharmacists, that they had a drive-tag machine in their hands, and they went in the back, and they put a price on it. Now we've put an end to it, and drug prices have dropped by about 80 percent. Fortunately for me, friends, as a pharmacist, with the support of all of our parties in our General Assembly, our Turkish Pharmaceutical Union, our Ministry of Health, and our valued executives and bureaucrats there, we are preparing a very important law. We now bring the Pharmaceutical Law, which we call Pharmaceutical Law No.6197, which has been in our language for many years, to the Parliament's agenda, and hopefully these days, when we celebrate May 14th Pharmaceutical Day, this law will be on the agenda of our Parliament, and in 50 years, we will be successful once again. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I thank all of our friends, our Minister of Health and the Turkish Pharmaceuticals Association who have worked on this matter, and say, "Happy May 14th Pharmaceutical Day," and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0005par0043	Thank you, Mr. Çurk. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Osmaniye MP Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, who wants to talk about public employees' rights and fees. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0006par0048	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to address issues concerning the public staff's wage regime. I salute your high council. The AKP governments, which ruled the last ten years of the 80-year-old republic, have, unfortunately, failed to address the problems of employees, even though they have expressed in our Constitution both in government programmes and their statements. For the first time, because of the incompetent and ill-advised government, employees are not given a yearly raise. They live under the poverty limit or below the poverty limit, which is about 10 million pensioners and as many working. ▪ Equal wages for equal work cannot be applied to the employees of this Assembly, who are organizing the same wages, let alone doing the same work in different institutions. There's a huge difference between the cost of the same job and the contracting division. The AKP governments have left them to hunger, misery, and do not be ungrateful, we have given you a job, what more do you want? One of them, perhaps the most important, is the Turkish police force. This organization, which has a history of 177 years, serves three quarters of our population. From Mt. Cudi to Kapakule Border Gate, they are members of the police with a four-hour sense of duty in every geography and in every area, from the fight against terrorism to the prevention of young people's vices. Undetermined hours and hours of work, police receive an average of less than $1,000 from other security personnel who do the same job. The additional indicator of the other security personnel who did the same job was 3,600, while their additional indicator was 2,200, and her pension is reduced by 60 per cent, depending on the time she worked in retirement. The county police commissioner's addendum is equal to the borough sergeant general's addendum. There is more than a thousand euros difference between the county police chief and the county police commander, and more than 2,000 euros between the police chief and the general general commander, and a community that feels left out. In retirement, the situation is no different. The police chief receives $4,150, while the general commander receives $5,750; while the county police chief receives 2,200 TL, he receives $3,600; while the police officer receives $1,200, while the current petty officer receives 1,700. In 2007, as head of the 60th government, Mr. Prime Minister said on Milky Way TV that he would consider improving police rights as a priority. Five years have passed, and on April 10th, Police Day and Week, nothing appears but the fancy words of government members. In this year's Police Week events, Deputy Prime Minister Arinc said the police would receive the rights of their rights as soon as possible. Our Home Secretary says that because he doesn't want to give a raise. We think that the police can't be paid. Police officer Nadir Özgen is still in the hands of the terrorist organization. The AKP, as with many peoples, will take the dry gadana to the police, and I will die in the way of the rattle. It does nothing but hamastrophe with its approach. The police sing to me in Cudi, and to Gabar, and to the AKP in Tendirek, the paths of love for you. A promise is an honor. In that case, the government, on every occasion, is the keeper of our police honor. It must fulfill its promise that it will be a eunuch, and to address the problems of the police. The working hours should be set, the overtime is not fixed, the way other employees are given, the same should be given. The fees must be increased in accordance with the difficulty and risk of the mission, at least as much as given to other security personnel. The additional indicators must be redesigned according to rights from the police chief to the police officer, even to the very few of them, to the local and local watchmen. For police's personal, spiritual, social and economic problems, parliamentary research should be opened, and the results should be evaluated. The guarantee of the security, peace and security of the community is among our objectives as the National Movement Party, where our police's working conditions are improved and a fair wage system is restored. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0007par0062	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. I guess there's no demand. I will promise the first 10 according to the 60th article; I will start now, and I will give it to only 10 people. Mr. Steel...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0008par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, we celebrated the 173rd anniversary of the Festival of Pharmaceuticals. I wish you all the best for the health community. The pharmacist operates as old as human history because he is a pharmaceutical expert. Despite his historical history, he does not have the necessary dignity and dignity today. I give you my regards with the hope that you will have the necessary dignity and dignity in accessing qualified health care.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0009par0071	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0010par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. The government continues to praise its economic policy and, on the other hand, bend the back of the citizen. Since October, electricity has increased by 20%, natural gas by 33 percent. Turkish citizen is being given the most expensive fuel in the world. The AKP sells everything without saying "friends" or "enemy." The native forest is being sold land to strangers. The AKP, who looks at the world with sales and purchase glasses, now pays separately for the entire route along highways and roads, as well as for the freeways, bridges, tunnels and viaducts. So even the flying bird is taxed. It's a contradiction to sell the tax routes of a citizen to a citizen with money. We're not dealing with the AKP, we're dealing with a Mad Dumrul. It's funny what the government offers for civil servants' salaries. According to this, 3+3 was offered for 2012, 2+3 for 2013. His government, based on a set of TİK figures...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0011par0078	Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0012par0080	Mr. President, thank you. May 14th Farmer's Day. We say, "Happy birthday." In the land of Adana, the harvest of wheat is ten to fifteen days away. Fifteen days later, the harvesters are ready to mow the land of the Adana farmer. We're waiting for the Earth crop office, the Ministry of Commerce, the Department of Agriculture to make preparations. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0013par0083	Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0014par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. According to media reports on May 6, 2012, police units reported that instead of pepper spray, pressure water and baton, they would use a weapon translated as a silent guard, which emits electromagnetic signals, causing people to feel pain and burning. This electromagnetic weapon was used by the United States for the purpose of war in the Iraq War. Are there examples of this weapon being used on the public in various street demonstrations in the United States and Europe? Does this weapon, which is planned to be tested on the public in Turkey, have a permanent impact on human health? Has this weapon been decided to be bought? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0015par0088	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0016par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. May 14th, I celebrate the 173rd anniversary of World Pharmaceuticals Day. I think the pharmaceutical profession plays a key role in health care, and it's very important in health training. I am celebrating the day of 30,000 pharmacists in our country and 12 pharmacists in Parliament who have suffered a great deal in the sector for the past ten years, who have had a reliable government in the region, and who have taken over family counseling in other matters, and who have also taken part in social violence, and I desire that the laws we have agreed on the Commission be given as a holiday gift with the General Assembly as soon as possible. In addition, the week we're in, as it is the week of the disabled, he thinks we should give up the rights of our disabled citizens and stop being a political abuse issue before we forget that each of us is a disabled candidate, and I'm celebrating the week of all our disabled citizens.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0017par0093	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0018par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating the week of nurses and midwives who have suffered a great deal from the health system, and the day of the pharmacists. I wish our colleagues the best of luck. The journalists who were kidnapped in Syria are saved, so I'm saying it's a past. Kaymakam Kenan Erenoğlu, Petty Officer Abdullah Spazceler, Special Sergeant Coach, Police Officer Nadir Özgen have been kidnapped for nine months and no news has been received. As the Home Office and the government, do you intend to free our families and nation from this torment? I want to know what's been done so far. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0019par0100	Dear Canikli...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0020par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. As a result of a landslide in a HES construction in Giresun, Dereli district today, four of our citizens, three of our citizens from Redstone village, one of our citizens from Aksu village -- one of our citizens has been killed; one of our citizens is also injured. I pray for God's mercy to our lost citizens, and to heal our wounded citizens. I hope my hand like this doesn't happen. Of course, the necessary examinations have been launched on whether or not there is any negligence in this matter, whether or not a wrong application has been done, will be initiated further, will be elaborated, will be done. Also, two days ago, we lost two of our former deputies, and they received the mercy of Hakk, our former Libzon MP Mustafa Cumur and former Şanliurfa MP Eyübüp Gülpınar. We pray for God's mercy, and for their families, and for their loved ones, and for their place in Paradise. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0021par0106	Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0022par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. We lost two of our former deputies last weekend; Mr. Mustafa Cumur, who we served with at the 22nd and 23rd Parliamentary Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey, and the experienced politician, former Deputy Speaker of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mr. Cünap Gülpınar of the 23rd Term Şanliurfa. I wish them God's mercy, to their families, to their relatives, to the Kassim Gülpınar, and to the AK PARTY group, to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Because of Nurses' Week, I salute all of our nurses as the Republican People's Party Group with love and respect. I express our desire for a system, a system where their problems will be solved. The week for the disabled continues. Given that Turkey's population is about 12 per cent, or 9 million people are disabled, I think this week's responsibility for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is great. In this framework, I extend love and respect to the entire Turkish National Assembly, reminding you once again of our duties due to the week of the disabled. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0023par0113	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0024par0115	Thank you, Mayor. In the spring and summer, many of our seasonal workers go to the Black Sea, the Aegean, and Çurova. However, the environments where our seasonal workers live -- living in tents -- are far from civilized, civilized lives. In this respect, I would like to request that the government's Ministry of Interior be instructed to all the trustees to begin a study of permanent containers to ensure that they can live in these modern, civilized containers. Also, it's May 10th to May 16th. The disability report problem, employment problem, and collusion problem have not been dealt with so far. There are 34,000 disabled quotas in public institutions. I demand that this quota be arranged as soon as possible. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0025par0119	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0026par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the People's National Movement Party Group, offer the grace of Allah to former MP Mustafa Cumur and Şanlıurfa, former MP Eyyüp Gülpınar, and to the AKP Group and their families. We also ask for God's mercy on our citizens who died in the disaster that took place in the district of Yoresun. Get well soon, all of you. Also, it's May 10th, May 16th. Indeed, Turkey, unfortunately, is last in the category of countries where a disabled person can live. Despite the declaration of positive discrimination in the Constitution, unfortunately, there are many obstacles to further barriers, education, employment, public buildings, organizing public spaces. In that respect, Turkey's Grand National Assembly has important tasks regarding all of these, local governments, state, NGOs. I wish it would be an uninterrupted country, where the obstacles to the disabled are removed, to help resolve the problems of the week of the disabled, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0027par0127	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. Mr. Mehmet Simsek, Minister of Finance, wanted to respond together to the proposals in the list of 1, 150, 282, 415, 424, 426, 427, 455, 459, 467, 468, 474, 476, 489, 490, 491, 544, 552, 553, 585, 689, 650, 785, 804, 909, 918, 936, 937, 937, 998 and 1.050. I'll grant the Minister's request when it's his turn. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A delegation from members of the Turkish National Assembly Interior Commission to Bosnia and Herzegovina on 22 May 25 May 2012 to respond to the announcement of Mirsad Djugum, chairman of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament Intelligence Control Committee, was adopted during the 103rd Union of the General Assembly, dated 8 May 2012. Under Article 6 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620, it is submitted to the information of the General Assembly. Mehmet Siam Kesimoğlu Kırklareli MP It has been presented to your knowledge. There's a statement for the retraction of the oral question motion, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I withdraw the oral question motion I asked Minister of Economy, Mr. Zafer Çağalan, 6/1634. I'll give you what you need. Yours truly. M. Volcano Canalioğlu The oral question motion has been returned. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In an effort to determine the measures needed to be taken by investigating the problems in fertilizer use and the price increase of fertilizer, the Constitution is 98. and 104 and 105 of the TBM Administration. In accordance with the clause, we respectfully request and demand the opening of a parliamentary investigation. In order to increase agricultural production, the process needs to be processed, planted, watered and fertilized. Plants have to feed for their growth, just like humans. As is known, plants extract most of their food from the soil through their roots. If there is not enough food in the soil to satisfy the needs of crops, the soil is given nutrients by fertilizer. So the fertilizer that is thrown into the soil allows our farmers to produce, to buy quality and more efficient products. Wrong agricultural policies, which have been in the hands of the ruling party for many years, unfortunately, keep our farmers out of production year after year, much less getting quality and more efficient products. They've been entering like ever-growing diesel, fertilizer, and medicine, and they're breaking the manufacturers' backs. Each year, especially when our farmers are most needed, the cost of fertilizer is increasing. The increase in these high rates completely distances our farmers from the use of fertilizer. Statistical information shows that fertilizer use decreases every year and prices increase greatly. This year, fertilizer prices rose at a high rate of 55 per cent to 90 per cent compared to last year. The ammonium sulfate (21N) increased from $35.00 to $67.00 per cent. The ammonium nitrate (26N) increased from 40.00 TL to 73.00 TL by 83 per cent. The ammonium nitrate (33N per cent) increased from 51.00 TL to 79.00 TL by 55 per cent. The urethra increased from $62.00 to $115.00 per cent. The DAP rose from $93.30 to 153.00 dollars by 64 percent. Compoze (20-20-0.0) rose from $62.00 to $108.00, to 74 per cent. Compose (15-15-15) 65. It rose from 00TL to $110.00, up 69%. With these high prices rising, the amount of fertilizer our farmers have thrown into their fields has been reduced every year. Our country used 5,198,779 tonnes of fertilizer in 2005, 5.367,045 tons in 2006, 5,148,059 tons in 2007, 4,129,256 tons in 2008, 5,275,619 tonnes in 2009, and 4,968,256 tonnes in 2010. The decline of use and the high price increases in fertilizer affect both the manufacturer and the consumer. The manufacturer, who can't put fertilizer in his field, is suffering from loss of products and is running low on profits due to inefficiency. Also, the decline of quality and loss of goods in the field have a negative impact on the national economy. The consumer has always favoured more abundant and cheaper products. In our country, production costs have gone up, taxes on the inputs have continued to increase. Supports against increased input prices have always been weak. The fertilizer, which is one of our manufacturers' most important entries after diesel, took place in 2011 as an expense rate of 12 per cent in wheat, 19 per cent in cotton, and 20% in corn. Therefore, the Constitution is 98 for further production and greater efficiency by investigating problems in the use of price and fertilizer. and 104 and 105 of the TBM Administration. A Parliamentary Research Commission shall be established under the clause. [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İzmir]] 3) Suleiman Nevzat Do Not Fear [[Isparta]] 4) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Erzurum]] 6) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Lug]] [[Mughle]] [[Elizipt]] [[Mersin]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Kastamon]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kütahya]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] 17) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] 18) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Antalya]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Constitution on Turkish-KKTC relations 98th In accordance with Article 104 of the amendment, we would like to order a parliamentary investigation. The EU is used in its accession process and international relations to undermine Turkey. The Greek Cypriot side is recognised by the world and is an EU member, while the lack of recognition of the KKTC, embargo practices, ambiguities continue. In foreign policy, "zero problems" politics becomes a problem when it comes to Cyprus. Turkey's official policies, strategically speaking, the importance of defence, the continuation of the status quo, pose serious problems. As the Greek Cypriot part develops the economy after the EU accession process, the problems with the Turkish Cypriot Cypriot Cypriots continue to be "property issues." Because of the black money, gambling, prostitution industry, the development of gangs, mafia, illegal organised crime organizations, the security issue also raises concern. Apart from the soldiers sent from Turkey in Cyprus, money is required to be sent, paid under certain titles, made permanent violations in the ECHR, cannot be seen in the budget, cannot be audited. Problems continue in the KKTC between the locals and the later settlers. A visit by Deputy Prime Minister's deputies to the KKTC has been under way since the war 37 years ago. During the EU accession process, when protested by the Unions there due to international reasons, they spoke insulting, humiliating, exclusive words against the Cypriot people. "They are strengthening the hands of the Rums," Turkish Cypriot President Dervis Eroglu said against the government's statements. Speaking of which, the previous President Mehmet Ali Talat said, "These words made the enemy rejoice, and I am very sorry. The Turkish Cypriot side is boiling. The word about the salary and the money must have been very hurtful." That's what he said. The Turkish Cypriot budget deficit and the transparency of Turkey's money are not available. The KKTC economy's strengthening, self-sufficient, the development of its democracy, the right to decide its own fate is injured. The reason why the Cyprus issue has not been resolved so far is because politicians have as much understanding of unwitting governance as understanding of Cypriot subjects. AKP governments are opening "local" at the same time, while casino openings continue. The Turkish Cypriot government recently released 24 of the Kurdish students of the Near East University without question, expelled from school and deported decisions are distorted examples of its lawlessness. The concern of the 41 NGOs visiting our parliamentary group has revealed the extent of injustice. It has been seen as the result of a methodical, predetermined Ankara-based study, which is a senior law school student and does not participate in the events, even when the President and Police ask for help in preventing events. It is not believable that the Turkish Cypriot Prime Minister puts this situation on security grounds, as the Council of Ministers' decision is kept from public opinion, interference in the judicial process indicates that thousands of students from the Near East University are under threat. For the reasons we've explained, we respectfully present the investigation of the House. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and propose the opening of Parliamental Research on Articles 104 and 105 of the National Charter of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to determine the measures to be taken by investigating the problems of workers and their families who have emigrated abroad from our country." 02.11.2011 As it is known, many of our people, who were invited as guest workers by some European countries, 50 years ago, especially Germany, to fill the gap in the labour markets in European countries after the second world war, have been established in the countries in which they have been. This journey, which began with the thought of returning after working for a certain period of time, was described as "a journey of hope," has now become a phenomenon in which our people continue to exist as the third or even fourth generation in the countries where they go. Following the October 30, 1961 "Dair Agreement for the deployment of Turkish Workers to the Federal Republic of Germany," which opened a new chapter in German-Turkey relations, in 1964 signed labour agreements with Austria, Belgium and the Netherlands, and in 1965 with France. The countries, also referred to as the economic recession of the 1974 oil crisis, decided to halt the migrant labor movement and unite those who had already arrived in the country with their families to return to their home country or to adapt to the local community. After this decision, many of our citizens who emigrated as guests have settled in their home country. Through family combinations, the number of women and children has grown, and our citizens have begun to participate in the political, social, economic and cultural life of countries who have migrated in different fields as occupational owners. Today, many of our citizens have stepped out of the position of workers and become employers. The Turkish business in Europe today provides employment for about 640,000 people. The total annual turnover of these businesses exceeds 50 billion euros. Turkish consumption spending in Western Europe is due to 23 billion euros. In Germany, Turkey's entrepreneurs, whose number is around 80,000, are more turncoats, grocery stores, barbers, etc. such as small shop owners. The number of immigrants from our country to Europe was 775,000 in 1973, while our citizens living in Europe today are estimated to have five million. Today, the number of Turks living in Germany is 2,700,000, and 950,000 are German citizens. Of the 365 thousand Turks living in the Netherlands, 266 were Dutch citizens, 380,000 were citizens of France, 200,000 were citizens of France, and 123,000 of the 233,000 Turks in Austria were citizens of Austria. The problems of our citizens who have emigrated abroad, Euractiv. com. "In those years of the development of Germany, the first generation earned good and bad money. But neither in Germany nor in Turkey has these "frightening coins" been valued. A very serious part of this money was then wasted on Islamic conglomerates, which began in the '80s, and the money collected in the mosques evaporated into the hands of miserable, dishonest people. The dozens of conglomerates, like a fraud machine, melted the German Turks' money. According to some, the amount of Turkish workers' missing money is around 40 billion euros. So there are tens of thousands of families in Germany who are miserable and falling into poverty conditions. Nearly 40% of the Turkish living in Germany today live below the poverty line. Most of them live on taking about 600 to 700 euros a month from German welfare boxes." sums it up. At the beginning of problems facing European Turks, there is a problem with adapting to the area that has been migrated. A successful integration project has never been implemented to overcome this problem, considering the equality of life and opportunity together. In addition to the problem of compatibility faced by our citizens, a 2005 study conducted by the General Directorate for Family and Social Research in Germany identified 32% of Turks' biggest problem as unemployment. This is the problem of language (13.8%), German prejudices (10.0%), foreign hostility (8.0%), disintegration of families (6.8%), dual citizenship (5.2%), social security problems (4.6%), organisation and lack of solidarity (3.4%) etc. it has been revealed that problems are watching. New ones have been added to these problems today. The fact that our citizens can't vote where they are, especially the fact that they don't know German wives or children are accepted into the country, the German administration's racist attitude towards our citizens, the government's segregation towards NGOs are some of them. A parliamentary investigation is useful to investigate the problems of our citizens who have migrated abroad for the reasons they are mentioned, and to ensure that the necessary measures are taken. [[Kütahya]] [[İzmir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Mersin]] [[Erzurum]] [[Ankara]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Adana]] 9) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Adana]] [[Lug]] 13) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] 14) Durmiş Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] [[Elizipt]] 18) Edip Semih Yalçın [[Gaziantep]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tripoli]] [[Aydın]] [[Adana]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Under Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration; I will have it read and processed and submitted to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 29/11/2011 dates and 2/236 main digits in connection with the Law Proposal on the Order of Places of Worship given by me, 37 of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. I'd like to submit to your knowledge that it is necessary to be processed according to the clause. Yours truly. The bidder is Mr. Ali Özgündüz, İstanbul MP. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0028par0295	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been offered a law on organizing places of worship. That's the essence. From the places of worship of Muslims, Christians and Jews who have lived in our country since then, they are mosques, mosques, mosques, churches and synagogues. In our laws, we made an offer of worship, a place of worship, a place of worship, and a place of purpose from the temple. To be honest, it's an offer for the legal status of the camisoles. I'm not even discussing it. No one has the right to discuss it. About 25 million Flames in the country that live in this country, the nation's national union, the land integrity, who have no problem with its territorial integrity, who are at the forefront of the Salvation War, who are paying the price in the establishment of the republic, are already the places where they worship the soul, but in order to restore it to legal status, this law must be passed. Now, with the votes you're about to vote, we're going to see how much conscience you have, how much rights and law you're based on. The honorable MPs are Muslims who are made sure of themselves. Thus, the continuous ruling party religion, faith, politics through the Qur'an, unfortunately, only one belief is subsidized, supported by taxes collected from Alevi lives, and even the taxes given by the Alevi section are used for the assimilation of the living. As you know, Turkey is a country that signs the European Convention on Human Rights, and agreements on fundamental rights and freedoms are under internal law, enforced according to Article 90 of our Constitution. In this international contract, our internal law is an international contract based on legislation when the provisions conflict. Thus, according to Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights, everyone has freedom of thought, conscience, religion. This right includes freedom to live freely or collectively, to worship, to teach, to practice, to perform the ritual, or to explain his faith. In accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights, which Turkey has signed under the circumstances, it is also necessary that, in accordance with the freedom of religion and conscience of our Constitution, the houses of the Union, be granted legal status and to be dealt with for years or even centuries. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as soon as you agree to negotiate this law, in an hour, a two-point law will be passed, and tomorrow Mr. President will approve it. So we can solve this problem. The theological debate is not the work of Parliament. Parliament's job is to treat all its citizens as equals to ensure that everyone will be free to their identity, their faith. So I hope that your duty, your duty to the lawmakers, is to put your hands on your conscience to help negotiate this law, get out, and our social peace continue to be even more solid in our country. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0029par0303	Thank you, Mr. Original. İstanbul MP Ihsan Özkes. Here you go, Mr. Ozkes. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0030par0308	Mr. President, the honorable MPs, the statement in the law was not a place of worship, but a place of worship. In 2003, the AKP lifted its statement to open the way for church houses and missionaries and replaced it with a statement from the place of worship. In Turkey, the mosque, the mosque, the church, the synagogue, the synagogue, the church house, the place of worship was understood. It's just that it's not understood from the statement of a place of worship, because it hasn't been granted a legal status. As mayor of İstanbul, it is only natural that among their first acts, the Dozers, the Greyders, were having problems in the Prime Ministership of Mr. Erdoğan, who sent the demolition squad. 35 people were burned alive at Madımak Hotel. The trial was timed out. Moreover, it was said, "May it be good for you to be happy that the case has been dropped. " The AKP organises workshops and plays with the Alevis as well as distractions. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers say that the office that decides that the ruling houses should be a place of worship is the Religion. The religion also states that the place of worship is just a mosque. The earth, according to Islam, is a place of worship; anyone can worship in the field and in the workplace. It is against Islam to reduce the place of worship only to the mosque. Jews worship only in synagogues, Christians worship only in church, while Muslims worship everywhere. Despite this, the Dianet strives to narrow down the place of worship at the risk of contradicting Islam, just to avoid giving way to the mosque. Who will decide the legal status of the Cemevs, Religion or Government? When it gets stuck, they sometimes call the problem of the camisole a problem, sometimes a political problem. Cemevi's decision has become a game between the Faith and power. Why do those who are surrounded by Jewish rabbis and Christian priests in the dialogue between religions keep the same love and respect from their grandfathers? When it comes to rabbis, priests, grandpas, get away from me! (CHP applause) In other words, it's a splash to everyone, but as for the Flames, the Lord is grateful. Dialogue with other religions, monologues with Alevis. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the state is a shrine, providing income from their visit to Haci Bektas Veli Ders. The Alevis are even deprived of His Majesty Hajji Bektas Veli. The Alevis lack the freedom to visit their leaders free of charge whenever they want. Where's the tax on the Alekis? And let not those who devour the rights of the flames, until they are penitently devouring them, strive to teach them the lesson of religion. Sergeant, those who know the Marwan games can't be deceived. These brave men, who are resistant to injustice, oppression, and persecution and mirror to justice, are deeply disturbed by hurtful and degrading separations and other forms. In the electoral squares, the defamation of the Alevi's identities has left deep wounds. Today you will either be assimilated or deprived. The imposition is a modern version of the mindset of either the beer or the head. The Cemevs must meet the legal status immediately and pay the costs of electricity and water. Yours truly. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0031par0317	Thank you, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0032par0318	I want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit01spe0031par0319	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0031par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 106th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. İstanbul MP Ali Özgündüz was unable to find enough to vote on the motion to take it directly into consideration according to Article 37 of the Interior Charter. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... are not accepted. There's enough to make a decision. We move on to the agenda's part of the above - the - word questions. Congressmans, I'm reading the oral motions that Mr. Mehmet Simsek, the Minister of Finance, wanted to answer together in the presentations section: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan. 13.7.2011 He served our government with success for 27 years and D. S. Y. After more than a decade of foreign bank service, he was promoted to bank director and then ran for mayor in the 2009 local elections. According to the law, those who resigned from public institutions and institutions were allowed to return, while İstanbul's Smally Bank of Agriculture was first-class branch director and was not nominated and re-started. 1- Why was the person running for mayor not able to begin his post when Istanbul was the director of the Düçükyadjet Bank branch? 2- How many people have had a problem with reboots like this before? 23.11.2011 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Hunt. Namik Havut The Susurity Sugar Factory was interrupted due to insufficient beet production. Workers working at the factory are also temporarily transferred to other sugar factories. The desire to privatize the factory is another problem. In this context; 1. The factory's interruption in production is due to insufficient beet production, but do you work to increase beet production in the region? 2. Sugar beets are a plant that enhances and employs producers at the same time. Why is the manufacturer not supported enough, even though sugar beets are high-velocity, by-products are animal food, and agricultural employment? 3. Will you stop privatizing a factory that can make a profit when it's well-planned? 23.11.2011 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, I would like to request that my following motion be answered verbally by Transport, Marineljk and Telecommunications Minister Buli Yıldırım. 1. What newspapers do Turkish Airlines offer as a treat to its passengers on foreign flights? What criteria do these newspapers act on? 2. What newspapers are regularly issued, in what quantity of purchases and distributions? 3. Is it more than a coincidence that newspapers such as Time, Star and Sabah are the most common newspapers for this service? Is it justified in commenting that it has been acted in an ideological manner, such as the New Age and the Middle East, that newspapers, such as the New Age and the Middle East, are excluded? 4. Are the New Age and Middle East newspapers considered to be part of the service provided to passengers? 15.12.2011 The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, With all due respect, I would like to ask the following questions to be answered verbally by Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light As it is known, after the earthquake disaster in Van, the official decision of the Council of Ministers for 2011/2518 was issued on 1412.2011, which states that "the public employees serving in the central and Ercish districts of Van Province will be compensated 300 euros for six months." On the subject of this matter, 1. How many people have been intended to benefit from the memorial arrangement? 2. What is the reason for the failure to include public employees in the districts affected by the Simav earthquake on May 19, 2011? 3. How was the official request of the province of Kütahya assessed? 4. Is it possible to correct this discrimination for two different parts of our country on the same subject? 16.12.2011 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, I would like to ask the following questions to be answered verbally by Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light In regards to the demands of investors to produce electricity from our country's new and renewable energy sources to provide investment support for domestic producers supplying domestic products; 1. CAN local producers supply inter-products to local investors provide investment incentives, such as tax reductions to newly established firms of the Treasury, VAT exceptions, insurance premiums, employer's share, interest support or investor's allocation? 2. Did your Ministry have any initiatives in the matter of the Ministry? 3. Could an arrangement in this regard improve the chances of domestic manufacturers competing especially with the Far East countries? 15.12.2011 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, I would like to ask the following questions to be answered verbally by Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light "In regards to the provisions of the insurance holders and the insurance holders who died due to the earthquakes in Van, the amount of premium due to the law shall be paid for service, bonus and bonus, and other conditions for their insurance period shall be tied monthly without looking for them." 1. How many people have been intended to benefit from the memorial arrangement? In what ways will these people be paid? 2. The arrangement includes earthquake survivors to what date? 3. Will those affected by the May 19, 2011 Simav earthquake, August 17, 1999, and other disasters benefit? 4. If they can't be benefited, can they be included in the arrangement of the disaster victims? 5. What are the reasons your ministry has led to such discrimination? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following questions will be answered verbally by Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek, the Constitution 98 and T. B. M. The M Charter is 96. I demand the clauses with due respect. Hunt. Mahmut Tanal 1- What is the number of public housing and vehicles as of today? According to the 2- 2012 budget, how much money is earmarked for housing? According to the 3- 2012 budget, how much money is earmarked for vehicles? How many vehicles will be taken under the 4- 2012 budget? How much new housing will be opened under the 5- 2012 budget? 6- How much of the vehicles will be purchased via leasing? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek. Yours truly. According to your statement, the TRT electricity bill has earned $550m in revenues from citizens. 1. Do you find it correct to transfer so many resources to the TRT, especially when there are problems with funding in many areas of health and education in our country? 2. How many kinds of taxes are taxed on our citizens for the electricity used at home? Do you plan to reduce these taxes and TRT shares and provide cheaper electricity for our citizens? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek. Yours truly. Turkey ranks sixth to last in the tax load among 34 countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). High taxes reduce our country's competitiveness. 1. Do you intend to reduce the tax burden of 26 per cent in our country? Do you have to work on a more equitable tax application? 2. Don't the firms, which you say will sink in the face of a minimum wage increase, fail in the face of this high tax burden? 3. How do you intend to boost our country's competitiveness? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Yours truly. Turkey's Statistical Agency announced inflation figures from December 2011. Officers are entitled to an additional 2.67 per cent increase because inflation numbers are 0.58? 1. Are you going to give me the difference between government officials, contracts, and pensioners from inflation? When are you going to give it to me if you're going to give it to me? 2. Inflation increases affect all parts of society. So do you plan to do a study in general? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Yours truly. Before higher wages were paid, a 10.26 per cent increase to motor vehicle taxes, traffic tickets, passport fees and driver's licenses were raised. 1. Will these increases not bring a new burden on a citizen? Why is there always a new year in our country with a new raise? 2. Is there any particular reason why a 10.26 percent raise would take place on a raise to the officer and the pensioner? Are you planning on lowering the 10.26 percent raises? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek. Yours truly. The continuation of taxation in simple procedure since 1999 is extremely important to our tradesmen and artists. 1) Is the simple tax system applied to our tradesmen and artists? 2) In practice, how many tradesmen and artists are taxing their taxes in a simple way? 3) Do you intend to apply taxing in a more common way? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following question be answered verbally by Mr. Mehmet Simsek, the Finance Minister. Dr. Reşat Right Question: The price of agricultural costs, such as electricity, diesel, medicine, fertilizer, seedlings, seeds, is very high. Do you intend to lower the VAT rates in order to support the farmer? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Yours truly. Turkey has asked the government to begin public reform primarily by improving public employees' financial and social rights. 1) In the past, officers were able to buy a house with a pension. Now, how many pensions does a low-level civil servant who works for the state for 30 years and is retired receive? 2) Is it possible to buy a house with this pension? If it's not possible, how did the officers end up like this? How did the scissors in between open like this? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following question be answered verbally by Mr. Mehmet Simsek, the Finance Minister. Dr. Reşat Right The question is: There are huge differences in the distribution of national income according to the provinces. Is there a study to be corrected? Is there going to be any arrangement in the incentive law? 02.01.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, I would like to ask the following questions to be answered verbally by Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light In regards to the claims that your governments have won by firms in 2003-2011 that have not paid taxes to most of the privatisation tenders to the state, and that some privatisations have been made by firms in this situation; 1) Is it true that the privatisation tenders were held during the time of the Memorial, while the treasury was owed tax money, and the firms had won the tenders? 2) Is it legal for companies in this situation to participate in privatisation tenders? 3) What companies have won privatisation tenders even though they have failed to pay taxes on the state? Which of these companies paid their taxes after the tender? 4) How many companies still owe taxes to the state even though they won a tender for privatisations during the current period? 5) Is it true that they claim to be companies known for their proximity to power? 6) How many of these companies have been court-martialed? 26.12.2011 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, I would like to ask the following questions to be answered verbally by Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light As it is known, there has been no correcting of the rights of the autonomy that remain quite far behind, according to the peer values of our university's Assistant Secretary Generals, Offices Presidents and legal advisors serving in other institutions. It's been four years since the budget talks have been voiced by me and made promises that it will be resolved, but with regard to these sacrifices that have so far been unresolved, 1. Is it true that those who still serve in our universities as assistant general secretary, office president or legal advisors claim to be left behind in terms of their rights according to the peer values of other institutions? 2. If so, what is the magnitude and motive of the injury? 3. Can your Ministry arrange for the removal of the victims of the mentioned personnel? 4. What is the reason why the problem has been unresolved, despite repeated promises so far? 29.12.2011 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, I would like to ask the following questions to be answered verbally by Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light As it is known, a high rise in fertilizer and feed prices, one of the most basic inputs in plant and animal production in our country, restricts our farmers' agriculture and livestock. Among other factors, high costs of fertilizer and bait are related to higher tax burdens; 1. How much are the unit sales prices for fertilizers and baits still being made or sold in our country? 2. What are the amounts or rates of the other taxes if you have VAT, VAT, and ETV in these unit prices? 3. How did taxes on fertilizer and bait change over the years in 2002-2011? 4. Is there any work done by your Ministry on reducing taxes on fertilizer and bait and resolving the victims of our farmers? 5. If so, where is the study? Or can such a study be done? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following question be answered verbally by Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek. The question is: In 2010-2011, which public estates were earmarked for investments in what provinces? Dr. Reşat Right Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek. Yours truly. Taxes on the electricity bill have been significantly affected by the main money. Citizens are complaining about the tax burden. 1. How many kinds of taxes are taxed on the price of electricity consumed in the dwellings? 2. How much does the bill amount for when these taxes are reflected in the price of 100.00 euros worth of electricity? 3. Do you plan on giving up or lowering those taxes that raise the citizens' bills? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek. Yours truly. The various taxes on water bills have been significantly affected by the main money. Citizens complain of the tax burden. 1. How many kinds of taxes are taxed on the amount of water consumed in the dwellings? 2. How much does the bill amount for when these taxes are reflected in the price of 100.00 euros worth of water consumption? 3. Do you plan on giving up or lowering those taxes that raise the citizens' bills? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Through my following questions, I would like to request an oral answer by the Finance Minister. 13.01.2012 D.C. Natural Gas Dispersion Incorporated.What did you do in your ministry on the matter of the current RSADA system, which was signed on 7.4,2004, with an additional $14.6 million under contract, raised by $17.4m (except the VAT), and should have been completed on 16,01,2006, which has not yet been granted temporary acceptance of the company's audit on the activities of 2009, and has not yet been implemented by your ministry? What stage is the procedure in? If it's not processed, what's the reason? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Through my following questions, I would like to request an oral answer by the Finance Minister. 16.01.2012 1 - How much will various public institutions receive from Ankara Metropolitan Municipality today? 2-a) - $235.3 million of the capital's Natural Gas Anonymous, which, at the end of 2010, caused natural gas sales from this administration (including interest); B) - 129.6 million liras born in 2008, including interest in the advance transactions of the Federal Bank and the National Bank, and the VAT. C) - 119.9 million liras should be paid to this company due to the protocol between the Capital Gas and EGO established by Law 5669 and the loan he used to distribute gas and operate. Why hasn't your purchase been collected from Ankara Metropolitan Municipality until today? Can you explain why? When will you collect it? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, I would like to ask the following questions to be answered verbally by Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light The Deputy Secretary Generals, Offices Presidents and Legal Advisors serving in our universities are the 10th Amendment to KHK No. 666. They are known to be victimized by being excluded from the scope of matter. On the subject of this matter, 1. What are the total numbers of staff members who still serve as members of our universities? 2. Is it true that the current staff claims that the severance and additional indicators remain low and have been victimized according to the equivalent ministry staff? If so, what is the reason for this discrimination? 3. Is there a study conducted by your ministry to improve the rights of the remembered personnel and address their victims? 4. If so, where is the study? Or can an arrangement be made? 5. How does your ministry view the matter? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek. Yours truly. Within two years, people who sell a house or a vehicle have been called to the tax offices and have been forced to pay a five-year trade. 1. Is that true? If that's true, do you intend to force all those who have to sell their home and their car because of the economic crisis? 2. How many people have been made this way commercially? 3. How many people are planned to be commercially charged in this way? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek. Yours truly. In our country, the tax burden over a liter of gasoline is up to 60 percent. This tax burden causes our country to take the lead. 1. Do you intend to give up high taxes on fuel? Do you have any work to do? 2. Because of the high taxes, will you have good news for our country, which has to use the world's most expensive fuel? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Through my following questions, I wish to be answered verbally by the Minister of Finance. 23/2/2012 My question, which the US 3M Company representative in Turkey has bribed to sell services and products to some public institutions and institutions, has been answered by the Finance Minister (68) in the combination of pearls (which began with the 5549 Law). 1-Investigation has determined which companies have been bribed? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, the following questions will be answered verbally by Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek. 21/2/2012 1. Is it true that members of institutions such as TEDAŞ, MKE, PTT, have been victimised in KHK 666, which is called equal wages for equal work? 2. 399/2 contractors who work at KİSCE should not be forgotten if equal wages are to be paid for the same work? 3. Do you plan to put the staff on staff, as well as those employed by municipal contractors and 399 NGOs? 4. Do you, as a minister, have any work on this? When do you think about it? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, the following questions will be answered verbally by Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek. 2/3/2012 1. Controllers Finance Ministry expert, National Real Estate and Accounting Directors Bookkeeping Experts, and the IRS auditers' tax inspectors' status were taken away from them. What is the reason for this different practice in your ministry? 2. What's the reason for your Ministry of Influence and Expendence discrimination? Do you intend to rectify this discrimination? 3. Do you have any additional payments to be included in the pension and reflected in retirement? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, the following questions will be answered verbally by Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek. 02.03.2012 1. Instead of equating experts with KHK 666, when will you resolve the injustice that has been deepened by the central and rural division? 2. When do you plan to repair the wage imbalance among the staff working at your ministry? 3. Do you intend to increase the compensations of your staff in your ministry, as other ministries do? 4. When are you going to open the promotional title change exam for the assistant services class working for your ministry? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek. Yours truly. Your ministry has a total of 161 empty disabled staff staff members. 1. Why haven't these disabled staffs been appointed available until today? Why is it kept blank? 2. When do you plan to appoint these staffs as a government? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek. In our country, where unemployment and the imbalance in income distribution continue, it is known that the victims of all economic measures are public employees. Even though inflation fell to one-digit figures, the government has yet to reflect this relief to public employees, no relief in the ability to buy, and the fire in our officer's kitchen continues. 1- Today, more than 40% of public employees and more than 30% of them are paid below the poverty line, cutting their jobs by working a second job. Is there going to be a living increase in thinking of the losses of our officers who are unsure of their future, who are not safe, who can't pay their rent, who can't send their child to school, and who can't even get married because their salary is inadequate? Mr. Secretary, come in. Mr. Özcelik reads too fast, so you have 35 minutes left. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0033par0319	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to answer the oral question motions that have just been read in the Presidential Court, which are on the agenda. I hereby salute your high council. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to start by asking Mr. Öğüm Öğüt to our Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Ali Babacan (6/26): Agriculture Bank, Law 4603, has been subject to the same legal status as private banks. Ten staff members, including the Director of the Minoria Branch, who worked under the Employment Act and resigned to participate in the local elections in 2009, have requested their extradition due to the loss of their candidacy or elections, but their demands are not favoured by the authority of the bank board. Although the staff in question filed a extradition suit, the court ruled that the case be dismissed because the plaintiff himself resigned to run for office. There was no problem with reboots prior to 2009. Mr. Havutça has proposed 6/301) to Mr. Prime Minister: Turkish Sugar Corporation gives producers about half of the price of beetseed production, to promote beet production, to increase efficiency and quality, half of the price of beet seed, for the beets brought to the factory, for shipping bonus and compensation, and for the producers, about half of the price of the beets, or half of the price of the price of the beet before the beets are made. Although many agricultural measures have been taken from the battle of disease and pests in the field of beet planting by the Susurity Sugar Factory, it has not been produced efficient and quality beets due to the climate and soil properties of the region. This situation and all the measures and support taken have not prevented producers from turning to more profitable products. Sugar factories in neighbouring areas cannot provide beets from outside the region because they provide as much beets as they need. Although its quota has been preserved, it has been returned in the last four years to an important part of the production quota, which is 566 thousand tons, unusable. The privatisation of this factory is under way. Mr. Turkkan (6/539): The Turkish Airways Association is an organisation that operates according to private law laws and the public's share is 49.1 per cent. However, issues in the motion were asked to the company, and the company's policy said that while newspapers were not distributed on internal flights, there was a broad range of newspapers in the airports and outside-line flights in accordance with business interests and passenger requests. It has been stated that 23 newspapers have been bought in the aircraft and in the booths at Istanbul Airport, depending on the number of passenger preferences and hails. According to statistics held in the newspaper stands, the most popular is Hurriyet, Sabah, Haberturk newspapers, so these newspapers were bought most, and the Middle East newspaper was among the publications offered to passengers. The motions of Mr. Alim Light (6/732), (6/735): Of course, the size of the disaster is generally determined by the extent of compensation and overworking of public personnel serving in disaster areas, and by the extent of the damage it has given, and by the extent of the intensive work it has done. The most recent earthquake was caused by the 1999 earthquake, and the need for compensation and extra work in earthquakes of other sizes, such as Erzurum, Elazig, Bingol and Kütahya provinces and surrounding earthquakes was not required. The monthly commitment of those who were injured or killed in the Simav and Van earthquakes was provided on January 26th by Article 6270 and Act 5510 added to the Law. In the May 19, 2011 Simav earthquake, 3, 604 in the October 23, and 40 in the November 9 earthquake, the total number of wounded was 2,875. In connection with these, the rights holders who meet the requirements prescribed by the law are subject to a disability pension or a death pension. Mr. Light (6/734), Mr. Right (6/802) motions by Mr. Right: In addition to the ability to generate energy from local and renewable energy sources, they are also given special importance and have been adopted as a policy in which they can benefit from the basics envisioned in the current general investment incentives. The Law 6094, published on January 8, 2011, brought new incentives for renewable energy. In the event that the mechanical and/or electromechanic evening used in manufacturing facilities is manufactured in the country, these facilities are being produced and given an additional price for the electricity energy given to the transmission or distribution system. If they give power to the distribution system over their needs, they will be able to benefit from the price set by law for ten years. In addition, from 2013 at least 2 per cent domestic agricultural product bioethanol was required to participate in gas for the incentive of domestic biofuels and at least 1 per cent biodiesel from 2014 to 2014. These rates will be increased to 3 per cent for your engine in 2016 for gasoline in 2014. The latest, with the new incentive package announced by our Prime Minister, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is intended to open the way for the production of imported goods in our country and reduce the difference of regional development in order to reduce the current deficit. The framework will provide strategic products, strategic sectors, with very strong fifth regional support. A proposal of 6/743 by Mr. Tanal. There are 86,479 vehicles and 236,811 residences under the central administration as of June 2011. These numbers are also part of the 2012 budget. In 2012, the purchases of 1.3 billion liras were earmarked for housing maintenance and repairs -- including large repairs -- of $129.2 million. They will receive 3,743 from the 2012 budget, 24 from private incomes, 51 from the budget and EU contributions, 61 from foreign grants, 1,803 from domestic grants, 729 from return capital, and a total of 6,476 from the municipal private administration budget. The purchases are mainly intended for safety and health care, rather than for transportation. Lojman purchases are primarily in areas where security and terrorism problems occur. Mr. Dedeoğlu's motions for 6/745, 746, 887 and 888: 1 per cent of the electricity used at home is received by energy fund, 2 per cent TRT share, 5 per cent electricity consumption tax and 18 per cent VAT. 100 lira is added to the price of electricity consumption for $25.45. There are 8 per cent VATs on the price of water and waste water, including 18 per cent on the branch road fee, 23 cents per cubic meter in major cities, 18 cents in environmental cleaning tax in other places. 14.2 per cent of the total invoice for Ankara Metropolitan is tax. Turkey's Radio and Television Association receives a share of the price of 2 per cent of the price of selling electricity, excluding the costs of transmission, distribution and retail service, so that it can be financially autonomous and maintain neutrality in broadcast policies. This share was originally calculated over gross sums, while the arrangement in 2008 began to calculate from the net amount, while organised industrial areas were also excluded from the scope. As for the taxload issue, it is not supported by figures that the tax burden is too high in our country. According to OECD statistics, Turkey -- the latest data from 2010 -- is the lowest tax burden in the OECD countries since Mexico, Chile, the United States, Korea and Australia. Denmark ranked first in the overall tax load ranking of 33.8 per cent of the OECD average, while Turkey ranked 26 per cent of the tax burden of 26 per cent among 37 OECD countries, which means Turkey is not above the overall tax burden, but among the lowest. Since 2008, the minimum income reduction and minimum wage income tax burden have been significantly reduced. In fact, a minimum wage with four children receives zero percent income tax when we neglect the stamp tax. The share of insurance premiums has also been reduced from 19.5 per cent to 14.5 per cent, so there has been a reduction of about 27 per cent. In 2002, the tax and premium burden on the average salary calculated by considering social security premiums was 42.5% in Turkey, now reduced to 35.9 per cent with the recent discounts. Thus, Turkey ranked first in 2002 in the tax burden of employment among OECD countries, while now in the 9th place. Dear friends, we also went to a reduction in many other taxes during this period, such as the tax burden on institutional earnings, the tax tax tax tax and income tax block and the financial share of the tax burden of 65% in 2002... between the OECD countries that we used to rank as the first in the tax load, while Turkey is now ranked as the 26th in this sense. Also in this period, tourism, textiles, health and education added value tax rates have been reduced from 18 per cent to 8 per cent. In 2002, Turkey ranked 65, while in 2011 it ranked 59, among 142 countries, which is Turkey's competitiveness increased, while Turkey's position in the ranking was seriously improved. Of course, in the long run, we increase our competitiveness by investing in education, infrastructure, R&D, and Turkey's competitiveness with investment incentives. In order to increase our international competitiveness, of course, we need to move specifically to intensive information, technology, intensive products. In addition to the quality of our human capital, we especially need to increase RD activities seriously. As a matter of fact, with the RD reform that we've done in 2008, we can now provide a tax reduction of up to $225 -- on a certain scale -- on an RD activity. Industrial assessments have been completed in the input supply strategy to ensure that the maximum added value in the global supply chain remains in Turkey, and our efforts to reduce our dependency on imports of intermediary property and ensure supply continuity and security continue to increase our global competitiveness. Again, the latest incentives really include some very serious steps toward this. Our work in income policies and practices is to review tax laws within the scope of activities, simplicity and justice principles, improve stability and predictability in tax practices, expand the tax base, reduce the burden, increase administrative capacity. Of course, we need to look at fiscal discipline, and we're not considering any recent tax cuts. Mr. Dedeoğlu's motions for 6/776 to our Prime Minister (6/780) are: The tax, tuition and penalties are increased each year according to the provisions in the law. This practice in Turkey is parallel to practice in many countries around the world. The difference of inflation by 2.68 per cent for the second six months of 2011 was reflected in monthly and wages by the Council of Ministers issued on January 10, 2012, on January 1, 2012. Our goal every semester was not to have our employees and pensioners crushed by inflation: of course, we can support that by numbers. In December 2002 and March 2012, the average officer's salary increase -- which does not include a new increase -- is about 228 per cent. In this period, inflation is about 132 percent. The increase in 2012 will be determined as a result of the collective contract talks, which began with the release of the Law on Trade Unions No. 6289. Mr. Dedeoglu's motion (6/789): Under the IRS Act, a simple tax system is being implemented against our business, non-existent commercial, agricultural and professional activities, and not subject to actual income taxes and annual purchases and sales in excess of certain sums. As of the end of 2011, the number of taxpayers is 714,693. With a bill that we have referred to parliament, it is possible that those who carry the terms of our taxpayers, who are being taxed in the real way, will be able to take the simple course. We are also continuing our efforts to ensure that our taxation system is a system that is simpler, fairer and better able to respond to the needs of our taxpayers in accordance with the rewriting of the Tax Tax Act. Mr. Right (6/790), Mr. Light (6/817)'s motions: In addition to agricultural and agricultural benefits, it is supported by exceptions and reduced rates in the Law on Value Taxes. According to Article 17 of the Law, public administrations, public institutional professions, political parties and trade unions, public benefit associations, agricultural-purpose cooperatives and cabinet tax exemptions have been excluded from the information, science and fine arts, agriculture, distribution, reforming, and incentive of services from the Joint Value Tax Tax. Another support is wheat, barley, corn, tripe, beans, peanuts, sunflowers, soybeans, sugar beets, potatoes, cotton, chickpeas, clover, shelters, names and other figs, grass, water and water-water hybrids with certified seedlings of certified fruit plants, imported or delivered. According to TÜİK figures, the kilogram price of the large animal oath produced in our country as of April 2012 is 0.61 cents; the kilogram price of the poultry oath is 0.83 cents; the cost of fertilizer, which includes nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium is 10 per cent, is 907.5 lira and the price of nitrogen and phosphorous fertilizer is 857.1 lira per to a ton. The VAT rate has been 8 per cent for bait, 18 per cent for fertilizer, and has not changed since 2002. We're trying to reduce agricultural input costs with agricultural benefits. During 2003-2011, a total of 3.5 billion lira diesels were supported by $2.8 billion in fertilizer in 2005-2011, with an average of between 15 per cent and 17 per cent of our farmer's gas and fertilizer costs. Mr. Dedeoglu has referred to our Prime Minister (6/799), Mr. Öğüt (6/1402) motions referred to me by Mr. Önüt (6/1402): In December 2002-January 2012, the increase in consumer prices is 129.5%. While serving as a janitor, an officer who retired after 30 years of service was paid 14.488 lira pensions in December 2002, while in January 2012, he was paid $36,884.6 per cent increase. As you can see, the increase in pensions is far above inflation. The scope of goods and services available with a pension must be assessed in this framework. During this period, the average officer's salary -- I have just expressed -- is around 228 per cent, and the lowest officer's salary has been increased by 316.5 per cent, and well-being levels have been raised in real terms. The proposal of Mr. Light (6/815): Privatisation methods, value assessment and tender procedures in Article 18 of the Law on Privatisation Applications 4046 shall be determined by regulations that will be adopted in Article 37 of Article 37 concerning the tender procedures. The privatisation practices published on August 23, 2000, and on November 29, 2003, the value assessment and implementation regulations set the procedures and foundations for privatisation tenders. In these regulations, privatisation tenders do not require a condition at the point of tax debt for volunteers. I can't answer some other questions because of the 5th article of the Tax Law, titled tax privacy, and Article 107 of the Law on the Collectives of Amme Buyers. However, taxpayers are declared to have more than a certain amount of tax debt or a certain tax and punishment. For 2011, over 200,000 liras were announced on the website of the IRS, where the tax offices had adverts, and over 1 million liras were announced on the website of the IRS. The proposals of Mr. Light (6/816) and (6/988) by Mr. Halaman (6/1267): A single additional payment system has been provided by removing all additional payments made under different names and different sums to eliminate the imbalance between the Court of Law 666 or the staff in similar staffs. No additional payment has been provided for those who do not have an additional payment, and their status has been improved and there is no imbalance, and there has been no increase in salary for the staff. In the event that additional payments are higher than the new additional payment amount, there is also a provision to be paid as compensation until the difference is resolved. The additional payments of the assistant secretary general at higher education institutions, the head of the agency and the legal advisors have also been increased. Starting on 1 January 2012, the salary of the assistant secretary general at higher education institutions, the head of the agency and the legal advisors increased between $415 and $648. On the other hand, our universities have 1,042 staff, including 824 apartment heads, 103 legal advisers, 115 assistant general secretary-Generals, and there is no study on additional indicators and office compensations. There has been no change in the current payment rates of contracted personnel employed in positions including the Court of Justice (II) under Code 399. No one has been victimized, including the contracted personnel employed in public economic initiatives. Our Ministry of Labor and Social Security is concerned about the transfer of contracted personnel to the local authorities. Let me also say that while we are putting public contractors on staff, these employees have been left out because of the negative opinion of municipalities. The motion of Mr. Right (6/878) of Mr. Rights (4706) is provided to those who have an investment incentive to invest in the countries and sectors that are grouped by the Council of Ministers, with prior permission and permission to use and access to those who have an investment incentive to invest in and in the countries that have been funded by the Ministry in accordance with the Law on the Evaluation of Moving Property and Amendment in the Law on Added Value Tax. In this case, 971 immovable ads have been placed in 60 counties in the last two years. Over the past 22 years, additional employment for 294 people has been provided and has been established for 10 businesses for forty-nine years. The 115 is granted a pre-existing permit for 79 businesses that will create additional employment for 5,241 people. I'll give it to Mr. Right if he wants to see the spread of them in the province. The proposals of Mr. Youth (6/91), 925) were signed between EGO and the contractor consortium in 2004 and were not granted temporary acceptance due to the system's failure to deliver on time. Technical shortcomings have been identified by the technical staff of D.C.G. The consortium has requested that temporary admissions be carried out, saying they are not in the way of temporary acceptance. According to the Supreme Control Board report, the issue of Dycgaz (CADA)'s contract was first examined by the Ministry's supervisor and then by TEDAS and Privatisation Administration members last year. In January 2012, D.C. Gas issued a written notification to the override consortium in January 2012 that no shortcomings or defects have been detected regarding the tender process, that the work was immediately started and completed. The 80 per cent stake in the capital gas is included in the privatisation and programme with Privatisation Board Decision No. 2 July 2009 and 2009/43. As of this date, a number of measures have been taken for the collection of the recipients, the loans of the municipality and the EGO General Directorate began to be charged with interest, and several written notifications have been made to relevant institutions. As a result, the EGO began to pay the compressed gas bills it purchased for transport services to D.C. Gas. A total of 17.3 million liras were collected at the end of February 2012 for the consumption after 15/10/2011, and the bills mentioned. In the 2010 privatisation tender, the debt protocol signed between the municipality, EGO and D.C.G.G.G.A. Finally, in January 2012, a new debt protocol was signed between the municipality, EGO and D.C.G.G.G. The municipality's debt to D.C. Gaz is $595m. The city's debts to the treasure are already published. Mr. Dedeoglu's motion (6/1133): Property and car purchase activities must be taxed as commercial gain according to Article 37 of the Tax Tax Tax Tax Act, in the case of a continuous and/or commercial organisation being identified by tax audit employees or tax agencies. However, if it is proven that these activities do not have a commercial quality, commercial gain is not being established. I can't give you the numbers since our ministry's data operating system hasn't found the information to implement a resensity facility yet. Mr. Dedeoğlu's proposal (6/1152): The price of raw oil was between 20 and 24 dollars in the international market in 2002, while now -- speaking for this year -- was between $110 and $126. During 2002-2011, the cost of the brent-type crude oil barrel increased by about 349 per cent on the basis of Turkish lira, while the average price of fuel pump sales in our country increased between 139 per cent and 208 per cent. As I explained on various occasions and on February 21st when answering oral questions, the tax load has not increased in fuel products, as in many other taxes during the EC PARTY administrations. At the end of 2002, the tax burden was 70 lira 20 cents, while in May 2012, it dropped to 58.7 liras. In its engine, the tax burden was reduced to 49.1% in December 2002 from 59.2% to 49.1%. We're not considering any tax cuts anytime soon. Since the end of 2009, fuel products have not been single-sourceeded, nor have added value tax rates changed. Mr. Kamer Young (6/1258): The examination has not yet been concluded. In the event of a criminal discovery, the authorities will be notified. The proposals of Mr. Halaman (6/1285) and (6/1286): As it is known, a new system was introduced in the public by Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 5018, which took effect in 2003, which included external control, internal control and internal financial control systems. On the other hand, the title standardisation has been made to ensure regular, rapid, efficient, efficient, quality and economically run by institutions. Arrangements have been made to provide the most effective employment of trained staff. In addition, there has been no loss, retreat, or victimization of personnel in the legal arrangements made. Inclusion of additional payments or similar payments to the insurance premium is not considered acceptable, and there is no study in this direction. Bookkeeping specialists in our rural organization benefit from additional payments at the same rate as career experts in other ministries' rural agencies. The Ministry of Finance from its subsidiary, the President of the IRS, will open an upgrade exam in office, and there is no need for a test in others today. Mr. Dedeoğlu's proposal (6/1347): The disabled staff quota has been filled as a result of previous exams in our ministry. With the decree of the 646 Rule of the Law... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, last question, if I may.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0034par0373	Now, I'll give you two more minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0033par0375	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was responding to Mr. Dedeoğlu's 6/1347 motion. Due to the establishment of the Court of Tax Control and the establishment of the Chairman of the Tax Control Board, and the addition of part of the Finance Administration staff to the Ministry's staff, there has been a deficit of disabled personnel in parallel with the increase in the total number of staff as of July 2011. The idle disabled staff will receive an appointment on 29 April 2012 after a test by the OSYM, which means that there will be no shortage of disabled personnel at the Ministry of Finance. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, thank you very much. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0035par0379	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. However, some friends entered without questions, I can't promise them according to the Civil Code. I will now promise the question holders, and then, Mr. Secretary, you will answer again. Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0036par0382	Thank you, Minister. The Supreme Court, Supreme Court, Supreme Court and Prosecutors have been hired 760i Long BMW vehicles. That's what we learned under the Information Act. The monthly rent is 7,600 euros. A car's monthly rent is 7,600 euros. The official document, the document I was given. But when I asked him how many years he rented this vehicle, the document they rented for three years, the second document. Now, three years, thirty-six months, that's 273,600 euros when I multiply thirty-six months by 7.600 euros, Mr. Secretary. The price I got from Borsan is now 276,000 euros. It's rented for three years, 273,000 euros; 276,000 euros if I buy it. Three years from now, if I had bought this vehicle, that rent would have already passed it to me, it would have been passed on to us as a state. Why are these public revenues being squandered and squandered? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0037par0385	Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0038par0386	Thank you, Mr. President. And I'd like to thank the Minister for his answers. Mr. Secretary, I want to thank you for your work on the rights of those who lost their lives and were injured due to the Simav earthquake by adding to the law on our recommendation. However, it is a privilege not to give compensation to civil servants or public servants who have worked near 5,000 working days. I believe you'll be able to satisfy that privilege. On the other hand, there is no regulation for determining the domestic manufacturing contribution. So investors who will produce energy from renewable or local energy sources expect it. This needs to be accelerated. On the other hand, the VAT from 8 per cent of the bait and 18 per cent of the fertilizer destroyed the farmer. 1 percent of its own property, but 18 percent of its input is not understandable. This needs to be dropped. It is a shame for Turkey not to ask for a tax debt requirement for those who participate in the tenders regarding privatisation. An intervention in a structure that will not pay the government's taxes, but can take the state's institutions, must be done. There are some very serious allegations right now. This needs to be investigated.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0039par0393	Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0040par0394	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to thank Mr. Finance Minister for his answers to the questions I've asked. I'd like to emphasize something and wish to remind you. As you know, Turkey uses the most expensive fuel in the world. Therefore, in all Turkey, in nine counties, including Kahramanmarash, there are no fields planted, and our driver's shop is in a very difficult position. I wonder if you're thinking of giving me a discount on fuel for 2012. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0041par0398	Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0042par0399	Mr. President, thank you. I also thank our Minister of Finance for answering the questions. In particular, as a government, for ten years, the public service area has been transferred to the private sector. Workers serving in this sector are neither satisfied with their wages nor their social security. I'm asking Mr. Finance Minister, wouldn't they have a job at the point of balancing salary relations and providing social security? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0043par0403	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0044par0404	Thank you, Mr. President. Three of my questions have been answered. My first question is... the 3M company in America says we bribed to sell some goods in Turkey. This is happening in 2008. I asked the Minister earlier, and the minister said: "The examination continues. " It continues in its answer. Why have these people who have taken bribes in Turkey for four years been hiding, and why is the study not concluded? Is this bribe happening to the AKP? I'm asking what Ankara Anakent Municipality owes the state, we're not getting a straight answer. Because of the capital's gas, Ankara's District of Anakent owes 485 million debts, which cannot be collected. We're not getting very clear answers here. Again, D.C. Gas Anonymous is linked to the Ankara Anakent Mayorate, while in 2004, SCADA is making a systematic tender for $17.4m, which should be completed in 2006, and still has no transaction. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Where does the Ankara Mayor get that privilege? Sir, we're actually asking three questions, so give them all a minute to answer. That's not gonna happen! So the Presidential Court is making it very difficult for us to ask questions, really, Mr. President. So here's the ministers, one after the other, and then there's no telling from his answers, but at least let the citizen know what question we're asking.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0045par0413	Sure. Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0046par0415	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkish farmer uses the world's most expensive diesel, fertilizer, medicine. Of course, it is everyone's common desire to reduce the VAT and the OTV. We're wondering what kind of work is going to be done on this. In Anatolia, small tradesmen, including the province of Tokat, expect when the laws of supermarkets and supermarkets will be taken out. Can the Ministry of Finance give us any information on this matter? In other words, foreign financing in our country has dropped from 23.3 billion to 13.6 billion dollars in the first three months of last year. Why do you think that is? Also, foreign capital investments dropped from 3.3 billion in the first three months of last year to 2.3 billion in the first three months of this year. Is it a sign that the economy's situation is failing? I want to know about this. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0047par0420	Mr. Secretary, please. I'll give you seven minutes, no attachments.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0048par0422	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, first of all, it's about the rentals that Mr. Tanal put on the agenda. In fact, it's not something we, the Ministry of Finance, have come to my approval at least. If such an app is involved...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0049par0424	I swear I have two documents, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0048par0425	I see. In fact, there's a very clear and clear arrangement there, so it's supposed to be economical, random.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0050par0426	It's always taken from certain firms.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0048par0427	Renting or buying, this needs a good comparison. But I'd like to point out that we've sent a new vehicle law to the opinion of all institutions. We're going to solve the problems of these issues in a clear and clear way, and we're going to move a new law on transportation to our Parliament as soon as we've completed our views, which will seriously regulate public transportation use, which will prevent potential wrong practices of this kind.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0051par0428	I'll give you the copy now.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0048par0429	Mr. Light, regarding the Simav earthquake, they brought up monthly compensation to the officers who worked there. We, the Ministry of Finance, do not report an contrary opinion. Such matters are, of course, recommended by our concerned minister, who is responsible for the AFAD.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0052par0430	Our Deputy Prime Minister for AFAD is here, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0048par0431	We, the Ministry of Finance, have not expressed any conflicting views so far. Whose side is the regulations being issued? Probably by our Department of Energy or the EPDK. I'll remind the concerned friends. There's no way we're interfering with that again.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0052par0433	That'll be all right, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0048par0434	In privatisation -- I told you -- there was no such document in the regulations in 2000, nor in the arrangements in 2003, but we're going to work on it, and I'm going to tell my friends that if necessary, we want this document, we want it in all other public tenders. Dear friends, regarding the taxes on fuel, I've actually explained this, but of course our dear friends have wishes. Are we really going to prioritize consumption, tax reductions, or employment, exports, or production? Look, about two, three weeks ago, there was actually a huge package of incentives that we gave up on big taxes, which, in particular, provide huge support for investments, employment and indirect exports, production, and all of Turkey...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0053par0437	It's not legal yet, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0048par0438	This is an important matter, dear friends. We made our choice. Our choice is clear and clear. We use our preferences for production, employment, investment. Turkey imports fuel products, the international prices of these products are fluctuating. I said it loud and clear. In 2002, when the EC PARTY came to power, the tax burden was about 70 per cent. The $70 of the $100 you spent on gas was coming to the IRS, and today, about $58 is coming to the IRS, $59 is coming to the IRS, and about $60 is coming to the Treasury, the treasure, and now it's coming to about $47-48. Dear friends, at this stage, we're not considering any tax cuts around here. Since the end of 2009, we have not increased a penny in the victim's OTV, and the VTV is melting in the face of inflation. So our EVP on fuel products is melting. Look, last year, as a country, as Turkey, we are a country that has paid $54 billion for oil, natural gas and derivatives, $54 billion. What would happen if these taxes weren't so high, honestly, I don't even want to imagine. So, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to express to you that I'm not thinking about tax reductions in fuel products, in a frame that will directly concern everyone. I think that would be wrong. Let's give our farmer more support. Let's give him more support. I don't disagree with him, but let's prioritize taxes on fuel products. If you say so, I don't agree with that, dear friends. Supermarket law is not in my field again. I'll give your wish to my concerned friends. Dear friends, there's nothing wrong with the foreign financing entrance. You don't have to look at it on a monthly basis, you have to look at it a year. Cari, there's a very serious recession out there. Look, we've explained the budget numbers today. So there's a very serious decline, especially in VATs from imports, etcetera, etcetera, and other taxes. Look, I mean, there's a lot of serious downs in dollars, 15 percent downs, 25 percent downs, and that's why... because we hit the brakes, we're back in the economy. Look, in the first quarter of last year, domestic demand contributes to growth by 16 to 17 points. So if net exports hadn't brought down growth, Turkey would have actually grown around 17% in the first quarter last year, but net exports brought down 5 points. In the second quarter, Turkey has grown to over 13 per cent in domestic demand, while exports have added negative 5 points; I speak on a clear basis, contributing to national income. Now, we took measures to fix this balance, and in the second half of the year, the export contribution was positive, 1.9 points positive contribution; the domestic contribution has become normal, down to 5.9 points. The average growth is also reasonable, but the balancing process... has now continued much sharper in this first quarter, which seems to have continued in April. So we're going through a balancing process, and we really need to get into a sustainable, balanced approach around here. In that sense, the need for external financing is getting less and less. As a matter of fact, it's already shown in numbers. Mr. Dedeoglu asked about the fuel again. I'd like to give you the same answer: service purchase is currently conducting a study on subcontractors. I agree with your concerns, so we're going to have to take measures on our employees' social security and salaries as Treasury. In this direction, our Department of Labor and Social Security has a study. I don't agree with the criticism of Mr. Young. I answered all the questions as honestly and clearly as I could. If I'm lacking, I'll complete them, and I'll pass them on to you. Thank you so much, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0054par0446	Mr. President, the company in America says: "I bribed to sell goods in Turkey." When does it say? In 2008. I'm asking the question, the Minister says first: "The examination continues." I'm asking again, the examination continues. When will this study end? Why is this hiding? So...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0055par0447	I wouldn't know.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0054par0448	The bribes on the purchase of the plane 40 years ago are being investigated today, but why are the bribes in the AKP era hiding, sir?
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0055par0449	When I rule, you ask me, my dear, if you have a stone in your head. For God's sake! The question motions have been answered.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0054par0451	No, sir, I'm asking the government through you.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0055par0452	I get it, but that's how you do the hand gestures.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0054par0453	No, I mean, sir... but I mean...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0055par0454	Anyway, it's settled, my dear friend.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0054par0455	Yeah. So let the mayor of Ankara tell us what he owes the state. I say, he doesn't say.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0055par0456	Okay. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss other audit issues, and we move on to the Law Bill and Proposals of the agenda and to the Other Affairs From the Commission. Mr. Ayşe Nurkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mr. Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Mr. Ahmet Aydın Üdıyaman, who is ranked in the 1st rank of Justice and Development Party Group Chairs İstanbul MP, Mr. Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mr. Kareseri MP, Mr. Karesun MP, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mr. Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Mr. Ahmet Aydın, we will continue to talk on the amendments of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Institution Proposal Proposal Proposal. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Law Bill on the Transformation of Areas Under Disasters, which is ranked in the 2nd place, where we left off from the Ministry, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission Report. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Article 12 of the first chapter of the draft bill, which was considered the main law, according to Article 91, was adopted in the 79th Amendment, dated 15/3/2012. Now, if there are any other clauses in this section, I'll submit them to your votes after I've processed the motion. There are two motions in the 13th article, which I shall have read and process in order. (x) 180 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 78th Consolidation Charter, dated 14/3/2012. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "declared" in Article 13 of the 18th article on the transformation of the 180-Defense Risk Areas is changed to "declared." I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that it be replaced by "no more than three percent, no more than three percent, no more than three percent, no more than ten per cent," under Article 13 of the Law Charter for the Transforming of Areas Under the Disaster Risks of 180. Is the commission in? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0056par0481	We don't care, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0055par0482	Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Iş. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0057par0484	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the transformation of disaster-threatening areas and to our motion on Article 13 of the law on urban transformation. Of course, this law has been on the agenda of our Parliament before, but 90 percent of the revenues from 2/B land were cut down on a reference to urban transformation, and we've passed the law on 2/B, and now we're going to continue from where we left off. Dear lawmakers, may God not bring natural disaster on any of our citizens anywhere in this country. Just now, Mr. Finance Minister has responded to some of our motions regarding these issues, and we've all heard their answer. On 19 May 2011, the governor's official letter concerning the ongoing aftershocks in Simav (Symav) has been issued concerning the earthquake since then, about the additional compensation for public workers working during that earthquake, and the relevant ministry has made a statement to us that if they offer us an offer, we will pay for it. I thank him. These proposals have all been made, Mr. Secretary. However, without knowing how many more days they worked in the Van earthquake, the Council of Ministers has issued a decision on it and has envisioned an additional $300 monthly payment for each employee for six months. Of course, our government has to do it, this government has to contribute to the employees there, and we have no objection to that. Official responses by the Interior Ministry and the relevant Deputy Prime Minister have been conducted in Simav's earthquake, which coincided with about 5,000 working days in the process of resolving the earthquakes. Now we say that the government officers who have worked on these 5,000 working days should also be paid in addition to this state's additional payment, and we must make sure that we do so. If that's what our Deputy Prime Minister has to offer, please, as Minister of Finance, take this proposal from that Minister, and we probably won't be able to give it to him. Therefore, we must resolve this discrimination. Dear lawmakers, the natural disaster is a disaster that none of us desire, where many troubles are all present and experienced together. Now, last week, I was with our people who were damaged by the latest aftershocks in Simav, which was also the earthquake site. Now, one thing I don't understand is that Your Majesty is afraid to receive the citizens' demands. Mr. Governor, when Mr. Kaymakamam asks, sir, there's no problem getting us there. He gets the answer. But there's a fact that people can't get into their homes, they need tents, they need blankets. Also, the buildings that had been detected in the previous earthquake, slightly damaged or medium damaged, have now been slightly damaged, maybe medium-damaged, maybe moderately damaged, and maybe moderately damaged, due to over 10,000 aftershocks that have been going on for over a year. But they haven't been made, they're stubborn not to be made. A team has to go there immediately, which buildings need to be more distressed and destroyed because of the aftershocks that have been going on for a year, and which have already been damaged, and how much damage has been done now, and this area needs to be handled again. Minister, I repeat, there is a disaster in that area and there is a drama going on, but I warn the executives here who insist they don't hear this drama. Soon -- God forbid -- in a new earthquake, new buildings will collapse, new lives will be taken, and if we have to discuss these events again, it will be too late, in this world and in the next, we will all be crushed. I look forward to your support of our motion, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0058par0493	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "declared" in Article 13 of the 18th article on the transformation of the 180-Defense Risk Areas is changed to "declared." Haluk Eyidoğan (Istanbul) and his friends Is the commission in? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0059par0502	We don't care, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0060par0503	Mr. Canalioglu will speak.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0058par0504	Mr. Canalioğlu, Tripoli MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0061par0507	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I have made a promise on our proposal to change the word "efficiency" to the designated "efficiency" in Article 13 of the Law Charter on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster Risks of 180. I salute the highly valued MPs of the High Council. Now, Minister, I know your good intentions, you're my countrymen, we've done urban transformations together in Tripoli, but there's one thing I have to tell you, how are you going to lift such burdens with this law? Because first of all, this bill has nothing to do with being crippled. Article 9 of this law is covered by legislation that will not apply all relevant laws. After privatisation, there are no more places left to sell. These laws now turn into olive groves, mechas, forests, culture and habitats, conservation areas, military areas, so they're being bought and sold. Now, dear lawmakers, I'd like to remind you of something. As it is known, in the time of Hun Khan, in the time of peace with China, when the Chinese ambassador was chatting with his gentlemen, the envoys came before Oğuz Khan, saying that the Emperor of China wanted the silver bow and would be taken in battle if he was not given it. Then Oğuz Khan gives his gun. After a while, the Chinese ambassador wants the grizzly stallion of Oğuz Khan. The men will rise up again to fight. But Oğuz Khan will calm his lords, and say, "Let the grizzly stallion go." After a while, the Chinese envoy comes again, and this time he wants the wise woman to be his concubine to the Chinese court. The gentlemen will rise up and resist again, but the Wise Hatun is given to the palace as a concubine by order of Oğuz Khan, and this time the Chinese envoy, who boasts, comes again and asks for the barren land between the two countries, and then Oğuz Khan. To war. But the gentlemen say: "This is a barren land, and there is nothing about it. You give up your horse, you give up your weapon, you give up your mistress. Then, my dear Minister, the lawmakers, with this bill being passed, the last remaining land in the hands of the public will be dispossessed and public poverty will take on a whole new level. In addition, if this bill is adopted, the law on the Preservation of Culture and Nature will remove the relevant articles of the Law on Protection of Nature, allowing all structures at risk of disaster to be destroyed and its area to be declared an urban transformation area. And according to this, if Tripoli has the risk of destroying the Sumela Monastery by saying, "Are we going to tear it down, or are we going to fix it, you have to think about it. Lawmakers may also vary more or less, depending on whether the municipality has a ruling municipality or not, the cost of the protocols with municipalities related to this law is determined. Therefore, it would be more appropriate for the assessment of the price to be carried out by neutral experts. Also, as part of this urban transformation -- I've just told you -- Mr. Minister wasn't listening -- but we have to remember that we have to remember that the assets in risky areas should not also be taken as a dwelling, but the memories of the people who live there should also be taken because they lived in neighborhoods called shantyhouses, where they married their children, where they did their weddings, in the courtyards of those houses. Therefore, they should be transformed, not only because their possessions were taken, but also because their memories were taken, and should not be allowed to suffer material spiritual harm. As a result, valuable lawmakers, it appears that this bill will be adopted by majority votes of the ruling party, but let's see how the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and TOKI will lift the weight of such burdens. Minister, as a final statement, I would also like to say that the Common House Law 2985, which is riddled with additional materials and additional interim materials, should also be made more transparent, more efficient and more understandable, and to be presented to the Supreme Assembly. Again, thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0062par0517	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0063par0518	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit02spe0062par0519	Okay, I'll call you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0062par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 106th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in the vote of Mr. Volcano Canalioğlu and his friends in Article 13 of Article 180. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the motion is denied. We will continue the talks of Bill 180. Commission? Here. Government? Here. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on 14 additional articles. Congressmans, there are two motions on the matter. I'm going to read these proposals in the same context and then I'm going to process them together. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the removal of Article 5 of Article 3194 from text with the framework of Article 14 of the Law on the Transformation of the 180 Numbered Areas Under the Disaster Risk. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motions? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0064par0017	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0065par0018	Mr. Arif Bulut.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0062par0019	Mr. Cloud... Now, you, come and sign here first.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0066par0021	I already have my autograph.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0062par0022	No, that's not your signature. The late Hoxhaoğlu had a saying: I don't chew two things in this parliament, and the first was the Civil Charter, and the second was the chewing gum. Thus, we obeyed the Civil Code. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0067par0025	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 14th Amendment of the bill we discussed. I salute you all. The name of this bill is Transformation of Areas Under Disasters, but I must say, almost all of Turkey is at risk of disaster. Fifty percent of our country's land is in the first-degree earthquake belt, so the AKP will be able to change all the structures in Turkey with this bill. First of all, I would like to point out that the underlying reason for the drafting of this bill is the desire to set up a legal framework for the city's law-enforcement practices, which the AKP Power has been doing for some time, but occasionally faced with legal processes, as an excuse for the risk of disaster. The essence of this law is not urban transformation. It's a question of how and who to share the numbers that will come out through urban transformation. Whatever part of the bill we're talking about, you'll have it. With the law, property rights are completely eliminated. According to this, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism will say that your home is entering a risky area, so we will tear it down. You can call my house earthquake-proof, here are the reports. It won't do any good. When you oppose destruction, an independent delegation will appear before you and most likely rule in favour of the Ministry. Even if you want to rebel and ask the court to stop the execution, it's futile, because there's an arrangement in the bill that prevents it. As a result, your home has been taken into the ministry's urban transformation and destroyed. There's nothing to be done. If you say we're going to make a deal, you've only got 30 days to go. If you pass these 30 days without any information because the ministry has the right to declare the zoning situation and conditions of this place again, this place will be immediately nationalized and your house will be taken away from you. That's what this arrangement will bring, folks. So one morning, the Ministry will knock on the door of your house and tear down this structure. This place is covered with urban transformation. He can say "It's not your rights at this point. " Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is the kind of bill we're up against. The bill we discussed in the past few weeks is similar to that of the Law Proposal, which has made a change in the Law of MIT, which has been legal in spite of all our opposition. The AKP's government gives everything to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, while the citizen has no right whatsoever. And to look at some of the unconstitutional practices of the bill, the violation of the property rights I was just talking about, preventing the decision to stop the execution, bringing out unregistered areas, including areas that even the state can't claim, into urban transformation, eliminating the zoning authority of local governments, removing the condition of the declaration on the development project, and eliminating the authority to protect cultural and natural assets, is considered a violation of the Constitution. So far, we've counted the negatives. Well, what should be done? Is this bill as harmful as it is? If you want to take a look at these questions, it is obvious that such an arrangement must be made. However, the urban transformation of municipalities without zoning rights would be more beneficial to people in that area, who were elected by the local people and have been approved and suspended in municipal councils, where representatives of all parties were suspended, without a decision to stop the execution. To sum it up, the authority of municipalities and different ministries will be met in a single ministry of government, which will be transferred through the ministry to the state within the state. On the one hand, the strategic institutions and institutions of the state will be sold under real value under the name "privation" on the grounds that it has been damaged, and serious gains will be provided for the fields, and will be stripped of the construction work by the state's hands. You will extend the authority of the Department of Urbanism in the ordinances, transfer their 2/B revenues to this Ministry, you will beat the lives of our citizens, you will set ten times its true value.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0068par0036	Thank you, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0067par0037	It's not all understandable, guys. We, the Republican People's Party, are against this law. In the faith that you will support our motion, I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0068par0039	Who's going to talk about the second motion? Mr. Vural, are you going to speak?
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0069par0040	Motive...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0068par0041	I'm reading the reason: Reason: In the continuation of the old practice, it is beneficial for the public benefit. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit to your votes 14 additional articles 5, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in 14 articles, which I shall have read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "In Article 14 of the Charter on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster Risk 180, the following regulations will be lifted as of the date when the period of one year has ended, if not under the title of the Interim Article 14." "In other news, the rules on the bet will be lifted as of the date when the six-month deadline ends." We offer and offer to change it into form. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of bill number 180 is 14. We propose and propose that the declaration of the "ladies" in Article 14, which is envisioned to be replaced by Article 14, be replaced by the "Land City's Law." I'm going to read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added to Article 14 of the Interim Article 14 under the framework 14 of the Charter on the Transformation of 180 Rows of Disaster Risks. "Designation plans are public. It is the duty of the concerned authorities to maintain that ability. The mayors and their estate chiefs take the necessary measures to submit all their zoning plans online, with sufficient and up-to-date information. And when necessary, He gives to those who ask for a payment in full, or some of them as a copy, or a copy, or a copy, or a portion of them, or a portion of them, or a portion of them, or a portion of them, or a portion of them, or a portion of them, or a portion of them, or a portion of them, or a portion of them, or a portion of them, or a portion of them, or a portion of them. Is the commission in? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0070par0057	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0071par0058	Mr. Haydar Akar...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0068par0059	Mr. Haydar Akar. Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0072par0062	Mr. President, we're meeting with the esteemed MPs, the Bill of the Law on the Transformation of Areas Under Disasters. Before we get to the point, I'd like to quote from the 194th page of the book Ideal of Great Turkey, written by a friend of ours elected AKP MP and currently serving in Parliament. In its book, the AKP explains its purpose for the establishment: Turkey, where it is equal to all people, democratic, transparent politics, law is equal to Turkey, Turkey, where justice and rights are a facility. It states that it met with this framework ten years ago. He says your only goal is a freer, richer Turkey, and we have come together to produce respect and love for the people. He says, "Why do we question them today?" he says. He's asking you, not me. Why do we question them today, he asks? Friends, please, look in the mirror and ask yourself, what is the destruction of this power disease? As Fuzulî put it, there's no effect. If I shut up, the heart won't accept it. We've discussed some of the Bill of Law on the Transformation of Disaster Risked Areas. I'm about to sum up what was intended to be brought in by this law and what was passed to the 14th article. The figures sent by the President of the Prime Ministerial Privatisation Administration yesterday appear to be $32 billion in privatisation when I examine the privatisation book. Since there's nothing left to sell today, you're selling everything in order, including strangers. I congratulate you, by the way. In a country with more than 10 per cent of inflation, you've been working for five months and offering a raise to civil servants' salaries by 3+3. We must congratulate you on the formula you've come up with. By the time we get to the law, it's clear that you're looking for the property of a citizen. In fact, I think it's better to call it the right to the right of property, the law to neutralise local governments. In my opinion, you should have divided this law into two sections: the reconstruction of disaster areas in chapter one. In chapter two, the situation before disaster, as in the title of the law, is urban transformation. Given the logic that all conditions after the disaster will occur in all risky areas and under the same conditions, such a centralist, a great opportunity for political power, a situation that eliminates property rights. My fellow lawmakers, if we briefly sum up what is required to be brought to the 14th article, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization will be authorized to work within the limits of the Metropolitan City, if this is the way the bill is enforced. The municipality and its private administrations are bypassed. Citizens' rights are not protected in the assessment of objections in the risk-tested area, but the law and the areas used by the public and citizens are also open to building. Again, the areas used as meadows, pedestrians, and barracks are open to construction. With this law, you may be asked to vacate your house, which is yours. One morning your bell rings and when the bell rings, when you open the door, you may be asked to vacate your home within 30 days. Again, with this law, you can see places like the heart of Turkey, Anitkabir, Ayasofya, Dolmabahçe. Again, when you need help, you may find a risky building surprise in your home, your land, if you want to be shown and do business. Again, with the law 2/B that you are trying to remove or remove simultaneously, the land that you are going to have, the land that you are going to pay for, the buildings can be taken away from you. With this law, public and private property will no longer be available, in short everything will be between the two lips of political power. As you all know, in the European Court of Human Rights, after the injustice of justice -- you know, the principal is Turkey's, you know, most of the issues he's being tried for -- is the second issue of property. Turkey lost its property rights case at the European Court of Human Rights on a record level within OECD countries. With this new law, this record will reach a level that cannot be broken. It is a law that destroys the authority of local governments, incompatible with the principles of governance, weakens property rights, even eliminates the suspension of governance. The prized project in the world is the Dikmen Valley Project. This project has legal dimensions, socioeconomic dimensions, process management, deductions and suggestions, but the law that you bring in is to covet the property of a citizen. For these reasons, I express that the law is not right, and I offer you all love and respect.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0073par0074	Thank you, Mr. Akar. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of bill number 180 is 14. We propose and propose that the declaration of the "ladies" in Article 14, which is envisioned to be replaced by Article 14, be replaced by the "Land City's Law." Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Is the commission in? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0074par0083	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0075par0084	We don't hear any of the commission's voices, Mayor. I swear I can't hear anything.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0073par0085	I hear it, that's enough. İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0076par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've made a commitment to the amendment motion we've made on Article 180 of the Law Proposal. I salute you all. In fact, when you look inside the material, although the bill for the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster is considered to be quite remarkable and a good arrangement, it's not exactly a bill of law that's been discussed in terms of the urban transformation project, and it's not a very acceptable approach by us. One of the main reasons for this is that this urban transformation project, which the AKP government insists on, is that this project, as it is expressed in the Constitution, or that it is a violation of the principle of an equal social state, which is the basis for this law, is that not everyone who has the right to live in a healthy, balanced and secure environment will have this right. Because what's called a local transformation is actually new ground spaces. It's where poor laborers live, let's say the areas that have now become a center of attraction are often emptied and turned into places where poor laborers will never be able to reach again, and poor laborers are often pushed out of these habitats. Sadly, there is such a risk in this disaster law - a healthy life, rather than a balanced, truly socially affected arrangement - how can we obtain a new runt from here? Of course, we're not against this: Turkey's first-degree earthquake zone, floods, a country where natural disasters are the busiest. The approach to protecting your own people from these natural disasters, the approach to building cities where they can live a healthier life is acceptable, but if you're only taking it on the runt, it's not an acceptable approach if you're just taking it on a profit. Besides, we've always said that the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, especially created by a decree of law, is seriously problematic, that the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism can't come side by side, that the Ministry of Urbanism will completely tear the environment apart. From that point of view, I'd like to express once again that we're against it. Our motion is only about an arrangement, but I want to make it clear once again that we are against the entire bill. Members of parliament, today we have actually seen once again that the government has caused serious destruction, especially in the ecological sense, within the framework of its policies. At Giresun Dereli, you know, four workers who worked on the HES were killed by a landslide. We've often expressed our approach to HESEs here, saying that HESEs themselves are the problem. Once again, people lost their lives because of the HES construction. I wish them God's mercy. I hope that, again, the AKP government will be more careful about the production of HESH, especially the construction of its people, and will now give up this project, which will plague the people of Turkey, which will cause them trouble, for the sake of doing so, at least not only in order to prevent more people from getting hurt, because the HESESTs have become not just labor kills, but also forced migration sites. Here's another approach to the rate, the urban rate. Another issue, lawmakers, today is an important day for the Kurdish people, for the people of 20 million Kurds living in Turkey, Kurdish Language Day. I read in the press today -- a major development -- that Kurdish poetry will be read on May 19th. Kurdish poetry will be read; we can consider it an important development, but 20 million Kurds living in this country are still not allowed to study in their native language, not their language, not their identity, not their culture. I mean, the Constitution is being debated, but how are you going to make a constitution that's a co-existence project for a people whose language you've ignored, whose identity you've ignored? We've always said it was a trick, and we're saying it again from here. Just because we're in the Constitutional Compromise Commission doesn't mean we don't criticize them. I am once again celebrating Kurdish Language Day, and I would like to say once again that we will fight for the freedom of all languages, cultures that live in Turkey, because if this country is ours, then we will live together on the basis of equal, free citizenship in this country, we will freely use the language, identity, culture of all the peoples. I think it's a big deal. I'd like to say it in Kurdish for once. [[*]] Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0077par0100	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "In Article 14 of the Charter on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster Risk 180, the following regulations will be lifted as of the date when the period of one year has ended, if not under the title of the Interim Article 14." "In other news, the rules on the bet will be lifted as of the date when the six-month deadline ends." We offer and offer to change it into form. Lütfü Türkkan (Alexeli) and his friends Is the commission in? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0078par0108	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0077par0109	Mr. Vural, who will speak?
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0079par0110	Motive.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0077par0111	Read the reason. (*) In this chapter, non-Turkish words were expressed by the Minister. It has been thought that it would be appropriate to pass on the new application immediately. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit Article 14 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, I submit the Frame 14 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 15 that I have to read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The first sentence of Article 15 of the Law Charter on the Transformation of Areas Under Afet No. 180 is the first sentence of the first sentence of the First Amendment fields, which we propose and propose that the sentence be replaced in the form of areas that are to be renovated. I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 15 of the Law Bill on the Transformation of Areas Under the 180 Rows of Disaster Risk. We propose and propose that the article's 2nd article be removed from the text of the article. Is the commission in? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0080par0127	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0077par0128	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0081par0129	Ali Serindağ.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0077par0130	Mr. Serindağ, please.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0082par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion made by our group on the Bill of Law on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster Risk of 180 and the Report on Publicity, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission. I salute you all. Members of parliament, this bill was discussed on the commission two or two months ago, without meeting in the secondary commissions. It's been rushed, but now we can see each other in two and a half months. So the rush wasn't to get the law out as soon as possible, but to ensure that it wasn't to be discussed in the commissions. Why are these bills being discussed, why are we making laws? To bring people into a peaceful environment. I came from Gaziantep a few days ago. Our Minister knows that the Seyrantepe residences... have 976 dwellings, 4,000 residents. No social donuts, no malls, no shopping, no parks. People travel two kilometers, two kilometers to get two breads. This is how these dwellings are built by TOKI. TOKI has not been able to satisfy these sites and the needs of these sites, but now has covered the bottoms for the construction of 7 million dwellings. I just told you, why are we discussing these laws? To make people peaceful. Now I'm reading a text to you: they're trying to redesign gazantep. It's a member of the ruling party who says that. I don't give names, everyone knows, but I don't give names. He claimed there was an organised crime ring in Gaziantep, including names from different parts. A key part of this criminal network extends to the Gaziantep Police Department. There are some local politicians in this structure. This team is trying to design Gaziantep's trade, politics and capital. Be careful with his phone calls. The Gaziantep police are unauthorized, making serious phone calls. Without the collapse of this structure, there is no rest for Gaziantep. It continues, reminding him that they are listening to it, and listening to me in Gazanantep. They didn't count on me. I'm not gonna let this go. I've delivered my concerns to the relevant locations. I hope it will be done soon, he says. Congressmans, this is perhaps one of the events in all of Turkey. If we want to bring peace to Turkey, if we want peace to prevail in Turkey, lawmakers, we need to address all these problems by hand. I just told you I came from Gaziantep. I'll give you some quotes from the press again. A journalist is going to the city, the container is looking at them, he's meeting with immigrants from Syria, and the claim is that every person is given a credit card, and this credit card is being loaded with $300 or $400 for about a month. These are expressed by the citizens on the street. It is said that people are brought in by the promise of work, that people are brought in by the promise of citizenship. Dear MPs, of course, it is a duty of the Turkish nation to welcome the people who come to our home in the best possible way, but I've just said that 40 per cent of the people who live in those Seyrantepe TOKI dwellings are executions. Do you know why? They can't pay the $50 bill, so it's all for execution. Let us extend our hand to them, and to the people of our land, and to make our people happy and peaceful. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0083par0142	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0084par0143	That's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit03spe0083par0144	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0083par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 106th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not sufficient for the vote of Mr. Ali Serindağ and his friends in Article 15 of Law Bill 180. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. We will continue the talks of Bill 180. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first sentence of the Law Bill on the Transformation of the Areas Under Disasters in 180 rows, which is the first sentence of the 15th sentence of the First Amendment area, be replaced in the form of areas that are to be renovated. D. Ali Torlak (Istanbul) and his friends Is the commission in? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0085par0014	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0086par0015	Ali Halaman will speak.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0083par0016	Mr. Ali Halaman, please.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0087par0018	Mr. President, thank you. Dear lawmakers, when bill number 180 was being discussed, we called it good luck and good luck, and we had our exclusive talks on the commissions about this law. So, in the future of this law, hopefully, we'll continue to say what we have to say. I also want to say that because it's about the disaster, we now have Saimbeyli district of Adana. Saimbeyli County also has a village called Pagnuk. This is a tidy village of Pagnuk, crossing the Seyhan River. A village with at least 15,000 acres of watery agriculture, so its fruit is also very famous for its tomato, cucumber, and pasture. Despite the fact that this village is in the landslide region, all universities -- particularly Çukurova University -- have given this Seyhan River a license to establish two HESs in the settlement of Pağnuk village. Because of this license, the peasant sued it. He won four at the end of the trial. Despite winning, the peasant's demands, the companies, the companies, who have the right to license, despite being constantly publicized, say, we'll do this HES. So they block publicization costs in the name of the villagers, waiting for the outcome of the trial. Although these courts are expected... I'm asking the authorities, the government's officials: I mean, in a mass village like Paganuk, instead of doing HES in the settlement, why don't you do it five kilometers away or five kilometers under? That's one. Secondly, again, we have Kozan district of Adana. It's been 15 days since it rained in Kozan district. In the 57th century, we had a pond project, which was constantly a flood because our pond project hadn't been built in ten years. In the wake of the flood -- four fish farms -- four fish farms were flooded with at least 150 tons of fish, thousands of acres of gardens, pomegranates, corn, wheat were flooded. When I left last week, those villagers were waiting for an expert. The villagers want the public to help them, if they have any debts or debts to be postponed. While I raise these problems, again, in Adana, fifteen days later, perhaps on the 25th, the wheat harvest will begin. In connection with this wheat harvest, he expects a base price to be announced within the Adana area, so that the Earth crop office can be ready, so that the land crop office can take a serious stand on the public's behalf at the point of purchase and sale, and I offer all of you respect, love.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0088par0026	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit Article 15 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 16 that I read and process in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "The applications required by the renovation projects are collected from the building fiscal by the city's administrative administration or the municipality if it is not carried out during the deadline." "If the applications required by the renovation projects are not carried out in building property during the given time, half the costs will be collected from building financials by the province's private administration or by the municipality." We offer and offer to change it into form. I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 16th draft law on the transformation of areas under the risk of 180 rows of disaster. We offer and propose that the clause "2nd" be removed from the item text. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0089par0038	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0088par0039	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0090par0040	Mr. Ali Sarıbaş.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0088par0041	Mr. Yellowhead, please.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0091par0043	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 16th Amendment of the Bill of Law on the Transformation of the Perilous Areas. I hereby salute your high council with respect and love. Yes, we're building Turkey's important agendas. At some point, we discussed the law, which is called the 2/B/B, which is the forest and agricultural use of Turkey, or rather its soil-based, or its 2/B clause. Then again, we discussed the law on selling property to foreigners, but this year, Turkey, I see, has focused entirely on real estate and real estate. So, in the meantime, we've discussed half of the disaster risk law, 12 of the clauses before that, and we've taken a break for a period of time. We can think of some questions. Is it to be brought to Turkey in a hurry, without quick infrastructure, without resources, without too much discussion on the agenda? Or in a different way, we'd be given 11 laws that ignore all laws, 11 basic clauses, municipalities, local private administrations directly, such a law that deals directly with the public, all authority, in other words, to our ministry of the environment and therefore to the latest TOKI. Are we making the decision of a runt system based on the Prime Minister's understanding, which is governed by another understanding? I think the last thing I'm saying is that we're going through a period where you're in charge of the presidential system. Look, in addition to the change in Law 5366 that occurred earlier, there is also the fact that we gave people the right to repair the historical artifacts here, we gave them the right to do their projects, we gave them the time to make them fit. We say, "Do these things." We say, "Do these things. But in addition to this article, you can't do this, you can't do this, and we will confiscate this, and in this sense, we will collect all your expenses from you. Anyway, before that, it was in the law. The citizen today, if he could make that building useful, if he had money, if he had credits for that day, or if he had opportunities to give, the citizen would have already started to do so. This is using resensals, and we're discussing an open-ended law that's not clear that he's going to be earmarked by the experts that we're going to assign to him in an economic sense, and that we're going to add his assets to the next second addition, and that we're going to be appraised by the experts that we're going to assign to him, and that they're going to charge him in the sense that they're going to determine. I think it's starting out as if... just as we brought in other, other things before this, the rule of law in a way of understanding that's gone away, when we go to law and there's no decision to stop it, there's a sense that when there's no resen money, there's a sense that I'm going to seize it. I think it's only natural that the applications in previous materials take their economic precautions rather than replace them. On this occasion, in Turkey, rather than in centralisation, we are withdrawing from an understanding that advocates governance, advocates democracy, advocates ruling from its place since 2002, to the presidential system, making legal arrangements for our future with these laws. We have to be very careful here. And so I say to him: I have the property, and now I have the right to the deed. I say this so that we, as citizens of this country, may know that we will be able to go any moment after these laws are passed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My deepest love and respect to the High Council.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0092par0050	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0093par0052	I want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0092par0053	I'll call. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to decide, the motion is rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "The application required by renovation projects is collected from the building fiscal by the state's private administration or by the municipality if it is not carried out during the given time." "If the applications required by the renovation projects are not carried out in building property during the given time, half the costs will be collected from building financials by the province's private administration or by the municipality." We offer and offer to change it into form. Emin Haluk Ayhan (Marine) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0094par0062	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0092par0063	Mr. Vural, should I have the motive read?
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0095par0064	Motive...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0092par0065	I'm reading the reason: It was thought that building properties would be difficult to pay the full amount. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. I submit Article 16 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three proposals in Article 17; I'll have them read and processed in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "It is imperative that the Council of Ministers make such a decision on the request of the municipality concerned and on the proposal of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, in order to be carried out under Article 17 of the Law bill on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster Risk of 180." We offer and propose that his testimony be changed as follows. "It must be decided that the Council of Ministers shall be eligible after the request of the municipality concerned and the proposal of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Article 17 in the framework of the Bill of the Law on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster Risks of 180 rows, which is currently in session, in the following way. "The decision of the Council of Ministers shall be made "in the third sentence of Article 73 of City Code 5393, dated 17-3/7/2005. "In order to do so, it must be decided by the Council of Ministers on the request of the municipality concerned and on the proposal of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism." It has been modified and has been added to the following jokes to come after the 13th joke. In urban cities, special lighting and environmental recognition work can be done on building fronts and renovations in favour of the city's favourable areas, with the decision made by the city's municipal council, city and districts, with the majority of the costs covered or part of the city's municipal budget. If they demand copyrighted project owners in buildings to change the front, copyright will be paid not to exceed the net minimum wage for a day's worth of fronts or fronts to be replaced per square meter. If favoured by the Metropolitan municipal legislature, the municipal municipalities within the city's municipality can perform the work and procedures mentioned in this joke within their borders. The changes and renovation of the building's fronts and the work, procedures and competencies necessary for special lighting and environmental recognition work are made according to the decision that the floor owners will make with the majority of the land share. If the city's municipalities declare areas of urban transformation and development and the area of renovation are declared by Law 5366 or, according to Article 75 of this Law, protocols with public institutions and organisations, the city's municipality council decrees to build a temple and a home in places of worship that have been destroyed or in places of need. I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 17th Amendment bill on the transformation of areas under the risk of 180 rows of disaster. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0096par0086	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0092par0087	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0097par0088	Mr. Alaatin Ascendant.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0092par0089	Mr. Ascendant, come in.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0098par0091	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. I have made a promise on the 17th article of the bill. If this bill passes through Parliament, I think we will pass the most dangerous, risky law in the history of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and the richest law in the history of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will be passed in the history of the Constitution. The Bill of the Law on the Transformation of Perilous Areas itself is a catastrophic law. This provision, in Article 73 of the City Code, concerning the 17th article I have promised, was brought in accordance with Law 5998 on June 17, 2010, and it is known by everyone that this change in 2010 is a law that was made in the empty areas of the city's city, which did not risk disaster. Dear friends, this 17th article has been used as a very serious weapon, especially for opposition municipalities, as a very powerful weapon in the hands of the Council of Ministers, after the law was made to become more dangerous as it is now. Look, 26 urban transformation projects have been passed by the Council of Ministers since 2010. Of these 26 urban transformation projects, one of them belongs to DP municipalities, and the remaining 25 belong to AKP municipalities. So this clause has been transformed into a substance that only operates for AKP-based municipalities. Dear friends, immediately after this clause has been passed, seven of Ankara's urban transformation projects have been approved by the Council of Ministers in one day, and the average approval period of the municipal transformation projects passed by the Council of Ministers, which are legal for 25 AKP municipalities is fifteen days. But when you look at opposing municipalities, for example, four projects from an Eskişehir Metropolitan Municipality have been kept waiting for ten months. Nine urban transformation projects by İzmir have been awaiting approval from the Council of Ministers for the past 15 months. Here are the transcripts of all of them, taken from the Official Gazette. Friends, the vast majority of these 26 approved urban transformation projects are the third and fourth-degree risky areas. Look, after the Van earthquake, the Minister of Urbanism first came out and said: "The signatory is a 1st-degree risky area, we have written at the top of the list, we will start there." After that, the Prime Minister said the same thing in the Government Programme, then the Minister of Urbanization told local governments to do your duty, and that would not be neglected. Yes, it's true, Izmir has sent nine urban transformation projects, all of which are on a first-degree risk range, but unfortunately it's been on hold for 15 months. Dear friends, we now propose that this clause be removed from this bill entirely by this motion. But just now, we see that they're trying to get it out of the ruling party's motion for change in a much worse way. Now, with this new motion, a motion has been made for a change in order to pass through the city's municipal councils, where they can do places of worship and homes wherever they want. If this motion is accepted, if this law is adopted in this way, I see that the way to build a mosque in the Zombie Square will also be opened. This bill is the death sentence of local governments, management and local democracy, which cannot be enforced in this way. I hope he'll come back from the Constitution, too, because there are so many non-constitutional clauses, because there are so many other laws -- counting 11 laws -- that no judgment can be passed against this law. I'm saying that such a law should not pass through this House, thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0099par0101	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Article 17 in the framework of the Bill of the Law on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster Risks of 180 rows, which is currently in session, in the following way. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends "The decision of the Council of Ministers shall be made "in the third sentence of Article 73 of City Code 5393, dated 17-3/7/2005. "In order to do so, it must be decided by the Council of Ministers on the request of the municipality concerned and on the proposal of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism." It has been modified and has been added to the following jokes to come after the 13th joke. In urban cities, special lighting and environmental recognition work can be done on building fronts and renovations in favour of the city's favourable areas, with the decision made by the city's municipal council, city and districts, with the majority of the costs covered or part of the city's municipal budget. If they demand copyrighted project owners in buildings to change the front, copyright will be paid not to exceed the net minimum wage for a day's worth of fronts or fronts to be replaced per square meter. If favoured by the Metropolitan municipal legislature, the municipal municipalities within the city's municipality can perform the work and procedures mentioned in this joke within their borders. The changes and renovation of the building's fronts and the work, procedures and competencies necessary for special lighting and environmental recognition work are made according to the decision that the floor owners will make with the majority of the land share. If the city's municipalities declare areas of urban transformation and development and the area of renovation are declared by Law 5366 or, according to Article 75 of this Law, protocols with public institutions and organisations, the city's municipality council decrees to build a temple and a home in places of worship that have been destroyed or in places of need.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0100par0111	Sir, you're probably going to ask, but I'd like to make a point. Now, this is a clause related to urban transformation, Article 73. There's another authority here for city councils. In fact, this arrangement should be organised not in the article on urban transformation, but in the matter of authority of municipalities. Thus, when that happens, another concept is put into urban transformation by the area that is perceived as appropriate. In fact, I think it's a systematic arrangement that really needs to be discussed in the powers of the municipalities. I'm just saying it's for the record. Or do they mean to say, Mr. Ministry, that the areas of local transformation are suitable? If they do anything about it...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0099par0113	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0101par0114	Mr. President, this is all about Article 73 of City Law 5393. There's no major change here. The Ministry of Interior was making the secretary of the 73rd article, and the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism will then do it. Gene, in addition to this, a clause has been added regarding the frontal arrangements that the municipalities need to make. This is not about our own law on municipalities, or the Law on the Converting Areas Under the Current Disasters, it is an authority given to municipalities. It's also about the public spaces of the municipalities, which are not public spaces, without making their own decisions and bringing them to the Council of Ministers.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0100par0115	I don't have anything to say to him. The title of the article, Article 73, states:..........................................................................................
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0101par0116	So is he.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0100par0117	So there's a concept in that material that's outside of the transformation field, and I'm expressing it.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0102par0118	Thank you. Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we're giving you credit. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0103par0122	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0104par0123	Reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0102par0124	Read the reason. In the cities there are many streets and streets of buildings that age. According to the Meri legislation, it is impossible to restore the quality majority of the floor's assets to renovate the building's fronts because they need to vote. The amendments and renovations to the building's fronts have been arranged for special lighting and environmental recognition studies to be made by the majority of co-ops to make decisions and also to be spent on the municipal budget. One of the very serious problems faced in renovating building fronts is that copyright is being paid, and the arrangement for the solution to this problem has been made. On the other hand, from time to time in the project areas, places of worship and homes are being destroyed and legal problems are being made to replace them. In this regard, the Metropolitan municipalities have been authorized and facilitated. In addition, there has been immunity from the 4734 Law on Project and Control service purchases in order to accelerate the process during the implementation phase of this clause. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "It is imperative that the Council of Ministers make such a decision on the request of the municipality concerned and on the proposal of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, in order to be carried out under Article 17 of the Law bill on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster Risk of 180." We offer and propose that his testimony be changed as follows. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends "It must be decided that the Council of Ministers shall be eligible after the request of the municipality concerned and the proposal of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0105par0139	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0106par0140	Mr. President, in fact, the motion that was just passed, the first part of their motion is the same as ours. So, it was accepted a while ago that it wouldn't be a change of heart, that it would be the first part of our motion.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0107par0141	Actually, Mr. Vural, we've accepted your motion.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0106par0142	I wish you'd joined, it wouldn't have changed, but just because he's from the opposition...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0108par0143	Mr. Vural, am I making you read the alibi?
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0106par0144	Read the reason, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0108par0145	Let's get him to read the motive, okay. Matter is intended to be better understood. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit Article 17 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 18 that I read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The box of bill number 180 is 18. In addition to Article 5543, we submit and propose that the declaration of protection be added in terms of the balance of protection in accordance with the plan of order. I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 180 Orders Under the Disaster Risk should be replaced by the reason of the Article 18 of the Law Charter. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0109par0159	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0108par0160	Alderman Kaplan, come in.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0110par0162	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation and all the arrested MPs. (Cheers and applause from CHP) I have made a commitment to our motion on the 18th Amendment. This bill, based on anti-confession measures, allows Turkey to declare all its cities and cities at risk. This allows the TOKI and the Prime Minister to be the only zoning authority. It is not wise to give the country's deed to the people who are exempt from many controls that are indispensable to building security. You're taking the practice out of the Public Contraction Act. That's why you allow new suspects. I'd like to remind you, for some reason, it's become a habit in your government, like taking matters out of the public tender law. This bill allows the TOKI (TİKI) to seize whatever structure he wants. Along with risky areas, the same structures are being transferred through the Finance Ministry to Tokyo. Hence, we share this concern: In areas at risk of so - called disaster, and in structures, the partners of TOKI and TOKI have been given new Rantsal spaces. The laws of development, environment and culture created by years of experience are being disabled. How do you explain this arrangement that aims to open up a special area of Ankara, which has no interest in the purpose of the law? Or do you resent the creation of the Ataturk Cultural Center in 1980? Why does it bother you to have a cultural centre, Republic Museum, opera house, and the Museum of Liberation in this area, which has been set aside by law in order to promote the idea of unity, unity and integrity by acting from the Ataturkian understanding and behavior in the 100th year of the year of the birth of the Law 2302? What is your purpose? I want to have confidence in your power, but you do not allow that between what you have said and what you have done so far. Every time you say something like this, people have given us 50 percent of the vote, so we do what we want. It's not in any democracy. In the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in the commissions, the opposition MPs offer no positive contribution, no right proposals, which you reject all motions and proposals. This is not the right approach, precious MPs. This is an authoritarian approach. It's a fascist approach. On the one hand, let's make a new civil constitution in Turkey. You'll say, "You'll talk about the constitution in common, you won't listen to any of the opposition's proposals, you'll even silence those who have proposals." I'd like to remind you of what happened at the Civil Code talks and the Board of Education. Besides, you already have a problem with that. What happened to collecting earthquake taxes, what did you spend them on? Did you answer? You didn't. Mr. Secretary himself confesses that people are still living in buildings damaged by the 1999 earthquake. You've been in power for ten years. For ten years, have you been able to do anything to damaged buildings? So, why the ambition, why bring it to these points so quickly? How can we trust you with what happened in the Van earthquake? It's up to you to change that trust, precious MPs. It's up to you to build the trust you've lost in Congress. Come on, it's insensitive, it doesn't matter, I know how it feels. Let's bring tolerance to the Turkish Grand National Assembly together. Therefore, again, I would like to remind you of the matter of the arrested MPs and to the High Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0111par0172	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The box of bill number 180 is 18. In addition to Article 5543, we submit and propose that the declaration of protection be added in terms of the balance of protection in accordance with the plan of order. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Is the commission in? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0112par0181	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0113par0182	Erol Dora...
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0111par0183	Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0114par0185	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the bill of law on the transformation of areas under the risk of disaster number 180. I salute you all. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers -- urban transformation projects today considered the main tool of opening cities to market actors -- are being implemented one after another, especially in major cities. Urban transformation projects force poor people, labourers and marginal groups to go to new habitats outside the cities, and are concerned about opening attractive urban sites to rich groups and capital. With these features, urban transformation projects include and violates the rights of almost all urban residents, including poor and marginal groups. In our cities, where social and economic imbalances are intense, central and local governments are one of their basic responsibilities, but they see that they are incapable of developing and implementing policies that will address these imbalances. One of the most basic rights is the right to reside, especially today in urban transformation projects targeting slums, collapse zones, centrally poor neighborhoods and so on. These violations go back to citizens being taken out of their living spaces. The city's central areas are being seized with promises to make it better, and poor marginal groups living in these areas are being removed from their habitats. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in the event of the legislation of this bill, the Council of Ministers, Ministry and TOKI will be able to open the country's land to its zoning movement on the grounds that it is at risk of an earthquake. In practice, laws protecting the individual's rights and the public interest of the people of the region are being ruled out and the judicial control path of the administration is blocked. This bill, which does not limit itself to law, does not recognise legal security, means that the legislature renounces the principle of social law on behalf of the public. On 17 August 2001, the Council of Ministers authorized the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, under the Law No. 648 issued in the Official Gazette, to use all Turkish lands as they please. Now, with the Bill of the Law on the Transformation of Disaster Risked Areas, it is organised with what tools and methods will be used for this authority. The draft law, in this sense, has been transformed into the law of looting under the name "Central Transformation." Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, almost a hundred and fifty years of urban transformation or urban regeneration work, in addition to urban planning, a field of sociology, law, finance, engineering, architecture and so forth, can be found under a single roof or must be collected. The drafting of the bill we discussed has not been taken into account the speech of vocational rooms, academics, or criticisms of the subject. Given this aspect, it is impossible to say that the proposal of the law is in line with scientific conditions and realities. Beyond that, the laws that are to be taken out of here should be in the interests of the citizens, while the law will be confiscated from the private property of the citizen for years. With this bill, the right to housing, considered one of the basic human rights, will be taken away from the citizen, and our citizens will be dragged into irreparable victims. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the disasters presented to the public as the law of prevention will result in more severe consequences. The bill, which gives political power unlimited powers, even destroys judicial control, will cause irreversible damage. We are all aware that our country is an earthquake country and that there is a need for a new structure in cities that have become unsupervised by zoning pardons, due to lack of control. The solution is possible with scientific, social and integrity legal regulations in the areas of planning, development, urbanization, construction and disaster. On this occasion, I salute you all again with respect, with love; thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0115par0193	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit Article 18 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Mr. Canikli has a request to make amends, and I promise him now. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0116par0198	Thank you, Mr. President. Just a moment ago, a motion for amendments to the 17th article of the bill was passed with my signature. The statement in the last sentence of this motion's motive is not compatible with the accepted text. In other words, the material text does not include the relevant issue. So there is also immunity in Law 4734 in the process of speeding up the process in the last sentence of the reason. The statement, which I have just said, has no meaning, it has not been found, it has to be removed from here. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0117par0201	Yes, the votes of the substances in chapter one are complete. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second section includes the 19th (a), (b), (c), (c), (d) and (e) medits separately, interim matter 1 and 2. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Sakine Öz. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Are you so applauded for Akhisarspor? Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0118par0208	Mr. President, thank you for reminding me. I wish Akhisarspor here good luck. At this time of the Super League race, I want to wish him well, congratulations on winning. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party over the second chapter of the Bill of Law on the Transformation of Disasterd Fields. I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to point out the discrepancy between the name of this bill and its content. Although the bill is called the risk of disaster, its content is urban transformation and even the law of random transformation. You'd think there'd be a transformation of areas that might have been affected or at risk of disaster. However, it is the law of Rantsal transformation of areas that remain in the centers of cities that have been neglected for years. The late Necmettin Erbakan, one of our former prime ministers, used to say to those who were angry, "You are a lot of bad luck." Now, you named a university after Erbakan. I suppose you wanted to be called more, but don't worry, with this bill, his word will be remembered much more, his name will be called more. This bill is neither the law to prevent the risk of disaster nor the law of urban transformation; it is the law to reshape and plunder Istanbul and Ankara. There are no people in it, there is no local government, there is no professional organization, there is no scientists; how can I give a share to the AKP Power and its supporters? There is also the account of taking the rights of citizens by force and taking the rights they have; there are institutions to be treated as subservient institutions; there are areas of forest, forests, coastal areas, historical and natural protection areas. Now, with this bill, it's shown that unsupervised structures will be under control, but instead of being torn apart by the chain of years of neglect, they're actually connected to new Rant fields. In fact, we believe in the urgency of a law of urban transformation that would be shaped by the opinions of professional rooms. In particular, an urban transformation must be done immediately in places at risk of earthquakes, but the urgency of a job does not require unscheduled action. Now, I'll repeat the questions I asked at the commission here: are priority areas maps made that are at risk for this law you call urgent? What area is the priority? Where do you start? The earthquake risk, the flood risk, or the landslide risk? Is it Istanbul, Van, Simav, or Rizey, or Ayama Creek, from the town of Gündoğdu, which had a flood last year? Don't the drafters know where to start? Is the planning going to be for all disasters, or is it going to be for each disaster group separately? If he can provide answers to these questions, perhaps the urban transformation law of those places at the risk of disaster, which is desperately needed, can be created. But as long as the problem is where can I create a rant, the answer is not human-oriented, it's runt-oriented. The reason for the law is that our country is at 90 per cent risk of earthquakes. Of course, an earthquake is a primary disaster, but wrong urbanization, illegal construction, and faulty investments also result in natural disasters. Floods also pose a danger of disaster. Is it not a factor in our country's situation that the ten-year-old AKP ruling failed to enforce the law? In large cities such as Istanbul and Ankara in particular, the search for illegal construction and unlicensed buildings has not been sought, and in some areas it has even been allowed to be built on forest grounds. In urban transformations, the local sociopolitical situation was ignored, and the citizens were exiled. Is there a dream behind this that Turkey's structures will be completely destroyed and rebuilt? This bill opens up places that are protected by the Mera Law, which are used as a crosswalk, and barracks, as well as places in the law that are seen as reservient areas, to the thalana, to construction, to the Ranta. The Mera Law states that these places cannot be used for any other purpose, but it changes the purpose of the use of these places and gives them to the ministry, to the use of the TOKI again. The relevant joke uses the expression "moves" that are needed for these places. Congressmans, how vague is that? What are the criteria for the need? Is the municipality from you a municipality from me? In democratic countries, people's rights are not expressed in vague terms. Of course, there's nothing left in the city center. Will the poor be taken from their areas of urban transformation and placed in the remote areas of the center of the cities? Will the sociocultural structure of citizens be considered at this stage of transport? Neighborhood, neighborhood relationships, how do you think they're gonna earn their bread? Members of the law, again in the legislation, in the articles of the dwellings, in the workplaces, the risky building has been identified, it has been decided to be destroyed, and it has been discussed in cases where rent assistance should be given, and these are defined with open words. As I mentioned earlier, the law needs to be clear. Could be a proof of what he might have done by the notorious AKP on the subject of a non-responsibility? What is the point of these judgments but to lead people into despair, chaos? The provisions of 11 law-related laws, such as the Law of Mera, the Law of Forestry, Tourism, the Law of Coast, and the protection of public domains such as military restricted zones and security zones, are ignored by this law. Again, with the authority of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, the building of citizens without questions, no questions, and even licensed cities will be declared an urban transformation area, and the resension will be confiscated, followed and made to the sides. Despite the privatisation of many institutions, enterprises and businesses in our country, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, with the authority of the king, has been single-guned, single-guned. TOKI extinguishes the hopes of children studying in architects and engineering schools as architects and engineers, such as buying and selling land, planning-projecting, construction-decording, and engineering. Again, the bill calls for no electricity, water, natural gas to be given to buildings in areas of Risk. Then what you do is not called a local transformation, it is not called a transformation of waste fields. This is a violation of human rights. The law states that the forest, mera, military areas, the AKP's Law on Urban Transformation, which is the source of revenue, are the source of a runt. The 2/B land will be declared a risk reserve and offered for sale. It is necessary to disable the relevant laws and convert areas that are at risk of disaster. It will be said that, by random transformation, all Turkey's historical and natural riches, especially Istanbul, will be squandered. This law is also a bag of laws that do not conform to its name, which contains many different substances. This bill has nothing to do with the Celebration of the 100th Year of the Birth of Ataturk, number 2302, and the establishment of the Ataturk Cultural Centre. However, the ECM field contains a substance that does not comply with logic and logic, such as the entry into the bill, which none of our citizens will accept. He must be taken out of the law immediately. In an article I've read recently, the author mentions that the ministry and TOKI are given martial law powers for the bill. It is described that the knob of the cantar has escaped. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0119par0228	Thank you, Mr. Oz. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Sadir Durmaz is a member of the Yozgat MP. Here you go, Mr. Durmaz.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0120par0232	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to share the views of the National Party of Action on the bill for the transformation of Areas Under the Disaster No. 180. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the history of urban transformation, the actions against decomposition and the improvement of unusable urban areas are referred to as. This alleged arrangement for risky areas is an arrangement that contradicts the Constitution's rule of law, which could cause significant problems in cities due to the uncertainty involved. In this bill, it appears that the rights of those involved in Article 35 of the Constitution have been removed from property rights, that freedom of search of rights stated in Article 36 of the Article 36 of the Article 45 has been eliminated, that there has been a severe impact on agriculture and animalism, which is already under the rule of law, which is subject to judicial control of all actions and procedures in Article 125 of the Constitution. As the bill determines risky areas and risky structures, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is generally given the authority to improve, liquidating, and renovating structures that exist in all disaster-risk areas of the country. With the powers vested in the ministry, municipalities will be ineffective in their own areas, while the public and the municipality, the ministry and the ministry will face challenges. In other words, it is up to the Ministry's initiative to use the powers vested in by law by elected local governments. As a result of all powers being given to the Ministry, the AKP will protect its municipalities and will remove all obstacles to prevent the work of opposition municipalities. Despite the development of many cities, it would be no surprise to see the practices of the Ministry and the TOKI, despite the municipalities, in conflict with the city's plans, contrary to the way it develops. Members of parliament, with this bill, it opens the way for the appointment of these movers to the Ministry without being asked to be in a risky area, to be used by the Ministry for construction, and to have these areas delivered to TOKI or municipalities free of charge through the Ministry. These cycles are not specified for what purpose and under what conditions. In this case, the area of treasure ownership in the city's peaking areas is also wide open for looting by the Ministry, TOKI or AKP-based municipalities. When we consider the practices of local AKP-based governments based on political abuse since 2004, the opening of agriculture, forest and green areas and the integration of so-called public areas into the economy, it turns out that AKP's real good from here is not urban transformation, it's an urban transformation. Honourable lawmakers are the basis for favourability by giving supporters staff and wages without limit, under the provision of rights and regulations in accordance with the rights and rules of staffing of the public. A new contractual staff regime is committed outside the framework of Law No. 657 concerning the operation of contracted personnel. Under the bill, the motions for the cease-fire to prevent irreparable damages are being lifted in the emergency situations stated in Article 27 of Executive Judicial Law 2577. In addition, the 60-day period of litigation stated in Article 7 of the same law has been restricted and reduced to 30 days in violation of the Constitution's freedom of rights search. Again, this bill stipulates that the purchases of goods and services shall be carried out according to the 21st Article (b) of the Public Contraction Act. The fact that such large projects are carried out in the form of delivery without an announcement to an address does not apply to any of the principles of transparency, competition, equal treatment, credibility, secrecy and public control, from the basic principles laid out in Article 5 of the Public Contraction Law. Even this single substance shows that with this arrangement, it's not an urban transformation, it's an urban transformation. Members of parliament, this law and the AKP government are seeking to continue its policy to provide a return to supporters on urbanisation. It is not acceptable for all of our cities to be transformed into a Rant transfer area based on the risk of disaster. Mr. President, there is no justice, there is no right, there is no law, there is persecution; most importantly, there is no human being. What have you done with our Roman brothers in Sulukule? You threw them 40 miles out of Istanbul, and then replaced them with your elite, is that justice? Dear lawmakers have voiced criticism by all opposition spokesman mentioned in previous talks with almost the same assessments. I know you won't listen to the opposition, I know you won't mind, but let alone the opposition, you don't even consider the Ministry bureaucracy. What do I mean by that? With the participation of nearly 300 bureaucrats, technical staff and specialists, the results of the Urbanization Festival in 2009 were not reflected in this draft. In addition to the transformation of the city's physical location on the ministry's website, social justice and development, social integration, local economic development, protection of historical and cultural heritage and natural environment, harm reduction and risk management, sustainability and so on, should be discussed with a comprehensive and integrated approach. Minister, don't listen to bureaucracy, don't listen to experts, don't listen to NGOs, don't listen to the opposition; who in God's name did you listen to? Was there a need for such a roundabout description when we made this arrangement? In fact, it would be more appropriate if you put it this way in a very clear sentence: It's TOKI, it's what it does! The irresponsible TOKI cooperative does what it pleases, arranges red carpeted ceremonies for AKP officials, pierces the election bans, pierces the Court's control, penetrates the public tender institution's legislation, pierces administrative justice! You left no place to sell at home, and now you're staring into the woods, into the fields, into the military. God bless you. There's nothing we can do but say. This law is a historical document that shows the stage of the AKP recklessness, where corruption is taken into legitimate cover, the procedures of the practice of corruption. You're making up the law for corruption. We understand that, but I'm wondering if you'll find a teacher who'll give it a fatwa. Dear lawmakers, this is the law of tanks that crushes the property of the poor to the rich, the most unfair law in the world. No forest, no disaster, no security, no culture, no nature, no land law, I don't listen to anything. It's not enough, I don't listen to any other law. In this final term of my power, when I have power, I will take and crush everything. Combining the property of the state with its property is the final phase of the sultan. In short, XIV. As Louis said, I am the Law. This is the 21st century version of his understanding. May God set things right! With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the high council.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0121par0249	Thank you, Mr. Durmez. Mr. Sebahat Tuncel of the Peace and Democracy Party İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0122par0251	Mr. President, Congressmans, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the second chapter of Bill 180. I salute you all. We've really always expressed our approach to this bill. Apparently, all the groups agree on that. It's not urban transformation, it's urban rant law. It's a serious issue, and the AKP government never makes it a problem for itself, so that's how he sees all the laws. The government makes arrangements in all its practices, from social policies to economics, to women's problems, to the state of youth, to all profit and loss. His recent assessment of the State Theatres shows once again how important this profit-hazard account is, that the AKP is just doing its reckoning. So instead of thinking about how effective State Theatres are in society, how many people are being introduced to the theater, how many people have no money for the theater, or at least the ones who can't afford it, how much money we're paying for it, so let's take it out of our hands. The approach shows how many people are being introduced to the theater, how much they're doing profit-harms in every field. One of the main policies of the AKP's mastery period is: ▪ How can we fill our pockets more heavily during this mastery period; how can we make the approach a part of the urban range, of the fields, of the fields, of the forests, of the living areas, of the streams, of the city? I've already stated on this platform, there's a very important success done by the AKP government: there's a future in democracy, about freedoms, there's a basis for this urban transformation -- again, under this law, they're offering us something good to regulate areas that are actually at risk of disaster, but when you go into it -- in a real sense, it's going to ruin the lives of the people of Turkey -- they don't even leave a good future for our children, not even for the future, at least for life! So how do we turn the three-and-five places that we have left, how can we profit from it? This is a serious problem, and with this mentality, there is no real democratic approach in Turkey unless it is fought by this approach. Congressmans, urbanization is an important issue, but it's also important how this urbanization works. If you think of cities as a place where only the elite, the rich, the rich -- which is the AKP policy -- actually shows the most beautiful places, the richest places to the rich, a handful of rich people, but in this country, the Roma, the Kurds, the poor Turkish workers -- all of them out of these habitats! On the one hand, we're going to make better places called urban transformation. We're going to say, "We're going to make better homes for people," which is supposed to be based on the Prime Minister's office, and everything is ready. You'll buy a house, where will you get one? YOU will receive from TOKI, and he will give you better homes! He destroys people's living spaces, his social environment, his relatives, his social relationships, his social relationships, he builds more walls between the rich and the poor, he develops classization, and on the other hand, he pushes poor workers out of the city and says, "Build, live there." It's a very serious problem, and it's a matter that undermines the notion of being a social state that undermines the principle of equality. It's never discussed, when it comes to matters, we make better cities. • Who lives and how does he live in better cities? Another problem area, while all this is being done, the people who live in that city are not considered. Social scientists living in that city, experts in this area, for example, let's say that architects who are interested in urban transformation, who are going to do a really healthy urban transformation project, the engineering room, the city planners, or the NGOs who are working on it, there is absolutely no partnership, we did it, we did it, we did it! Now, how come you're talking about a democratic value in something like this? Congressmans, the cities aren't just buildings. Now, if we're going to build democracy, we have to build cities as well as democracies, not just buildings. Now, the AKP government is building buildings, and it thinks it will be solved if it puts people inside. This is a very serious problem, so the matter of urban transformation is not just a matter of urban rant, it's not just a matter of filling someone's pockets, it's a point that fuels social injustice, inequality. I'd like to warn the MPs here, especially the ruling lawmakers, where there's injustice, there's rebellion! This approach of yours actually encourages rebellion because you're pushing millions of poor workers out of their habitat to make them more comfortable for the future of 10 percent of a group, which is not an acceptable point. Second of all, you're taking away our future, so in doing HESEs to the streams, what's done under the name of the urban transformation, let's say the forest fields, let's say the meadows, the more active wetlands, you're opening them all up to urbanization, and you're actually eliminating ecosystems and ecology, which is a big blow to humanity, in a serious sense, to the future. You guys are filling your pockets, but we're not really going to be able to make people who might even be able to breathe in the next process. The most obvious example of this is the situation of the Ataturk Cultural Center, which is supposed to be done. Now, here, this legal arrangement is being eliminated. What's the previous arrangement: the Ataturk Cultural Centre, which includes local and various museums, various scenes and meetings halls, exhibition sites, archives and bookshops, workshops and so on, and facilities that will be identified by the National Committee. Other than that, no structure can be built in the area of the Ataturk Cultural Center. Now, by changing it, you're actually converting it into new structures, new hubs. This is an example, which is actually a similar situation in many areas, so forest areas are being looted, wet areas are being eliminated. It's also the AKP government's policy to take the future of the people of Turkey hostage, or it's not really a matter of preparing human living conditions in places at risk of disaster, so we're against it. Look, I'm an Istanbul MP, and Istanbul is an earthquake zone, and maybe tens of thousands of people will get hurt in a possible earthquake. Now, to really bring out the risks from here, to prepare for a more stable, more secure life for people there, to work together with NGOs, to work with the public, to renovate risky structures, and in this particular to sustain people's lives, let's do urbanization together, but there's also a problem. What's being done? People are told: "Do it, change it. Your building is risky, unsubstantiated, but it takes no responsibility for it, but it puts responsibility on the people. Now, you will not do any work on raising people's living standards, you will not do any work on improving urban life, you will leave all the burden of life on poor, hardworking people, but here we are transforming areas that are at risk of disaster, and we are doing something good about it, and we are giving good news to the people. You can't fool anyone with that, maybe you can convince your own followers. I don't think you fooled them either, because they know what that arrangement means. We see that it's not a matter of transformation, it's not something that will make people's lives easier, but it opens up new Rant fields, even with a cover that makes them untouchable. So the legal situation, the interference, even the ability to run the legal process is being taken away from people, which is really not acceptable. You need to think about this not just for yourself, but for the future of this country. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as a result, we'd like to express... Everyone in this country has the right to live in a healthy city, as said in the Constitution, and to live in a secure town and to live in an equal and free citizenship basis, equal social rights. Thus, you must make arrangements according to this. If you do not do so, you will be responsible for the injustice, the inequality, the situation that will arise. This Parliament has no right to do so. I do what I want, there's a numerical majority. What he does by saying is that it doesn't mean that the parliamentary system works, but how a despotic system works, how it's imposed on us, how the peoples of Turkey are left without alternatives. Once again, we express that we do not accept this approach. And we know this law will pass. We are merely expressing our objections and carrying out our duty and responsibility to inform the public of Turkey, or, of course, this law will pass with the number of fingers, so let us at least record our objections. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-05-15sit04spe0123par0268	[[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. Now we have five minutes. In accordance with the decision taken, it is Wednesday (May 16th 2012) at 14 p.m. to discuss the legislation and proposals and the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
