tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 119th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Mr. Tanju Özcan. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0002par0016	Mr. President, I salute all of you with love and respect. It's July 3, 2011. A police operation has taken place in the 52-year-old Turkish football leagues. A large number of people, including the head of Fenerbahçe, Beşiktaş executive and the manager of Beşiktaş and the manager of the Tripolian government, were taken into custody and later arrested. There have been customs in private court and prosecutor's office, where the defendants have been held for as long as nine months without being brought before a judge. The defendants, who were held for nine months without being brought to trial, were tried at jet speed, and were even given a quick discussion of the basis, regardless of the prosecutor's motions for prosecution. Dear lawmakers, there are many questions to be asked here. One, it is clear that when the indictment was investigated, the technical pursuit began months ago, and the league ended on May 22, 2011. In this case, why was July 3, 2011 expected to begin the operation? What effect does it have on the fact that the prosecutors who conducted the investigation waited so long to start the operation have on the fact that there are elections for June 12, 2011? When the first detentions took place on the police department's website, the 19 games in the Super League and Bank Asia 1st were determined and proven that the fraud and incentive activities took place. Isn't it called a judicial execution? What kind of procedure has been made about the law enforcement officers who did this? Nineteen matches in the police's press release, why were 13 matches dropped in the indictment? Why was Fenerbahçe banned from Europe when several teams were named in the indictment, even the executive and technical men of some teams were arrested? In addition, instead of Fenerbahçe, who was banned from the Champions League, why was the Champions League members of the Libzonspor? Is it the Turkish Football Federation's decision or UEFA's decision to ban Fenerbahçe from the Champions League and replace it with Tripolispor? Has the government been informed of this decision in the process? As a Beşiktaş and Boluspor fan, I ask you: What is the apparent injustice done to Fenerbahçe? With many defendants in the case, why is the case being carried out on the focus of the matter? St. Yıldırım had clear evidence and decisions from the Board of Ethics and the Board of Investigations, but why are they publicly trying to identify him as a criminal and a dark man? In St. Yıldırım's defence, the esteemed MPs say that what happened to them regarding the process was the effort to turn the Fenerbahçe from the Ataturkcı road. What do you think drove St. Yıldırım to such thinking? What is the reason why a group called the public wants to take over Fenerbahce? By taking over the Fenerbahçe administration, who, for what purpose? Why doesn't the Prime Minister, who is also a member of Fenerbahçe Congress, call the plays on Fenerbahçe 'turur? Is the Prime Minister real, or is he a Fenerbahçe fan? Mr. Prime Minister, who previously tried to take over the critical institutions of the state for the siege of the state, is allowing today's Fenerbahçe to be taken over by someone? Do you realize how much damage your declarations have done to Turkish football, which would mean the acceptance of being made as officials of the Turkish Football Federation, Prime Minister and Government? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to share with you a situation that has also upset me in the process. About twenty-four years ago, in 1988, you remember, Galatasaray Neuchatel beat Xamax 5-0. After that, they wanted to reclaim Galatasaray's victory at the desk. Turkey became one heart here, and a committee, including former Fenerbahçe Club President Ali Şen. took back Galatasaray's rights. But in the passing years, unfortunately, things have changed in Turkey, and I've become the one who has a sense of having a hard-on. I don't accept that as a sports fan. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0003par0033	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. The second statement outside the agenda belongs to Adıyaman MP Adıyaman Mehmet Metiner, who wants to talk about the importance of social peace in Adıyaman. Here you go, Mr. Metiner.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0004par0038	Mr. President, there was an incident in our Adıyaman province last week. When I say "Nameman," I say immediately that Adıyaman is the city of peace and social peace. It wasn't an incident, it was common, but when it was reflected in the media, it was mandatory to talk about it. What was that about? There was a graduation ceremony at our Adıyaman University. There, the 2nd of the University, and the 1st of its division, gave a headdressed citizen the diploma of the garrison commander of our province. So, what's the big deal? That's the question and that's the problem. How can a story that isn't made for an open-headed citizen be presented as an event when it comes to a veiled citizen? I'm asking. If it hadn't been for a TSK commander who gave the diploma, maybe it would have come to this with just the headgear size. As a matter of fact, there has been a problem in other cities and universities. Even their participation in our heads-up citizens' graduation ceremonies has been blocked, but as a commander of the TSK, I don't think it's right for me to take it to other places because I believe that the perception created in this framework is a problem for social peace. Dear lawmakers, I find this to be a problem in two ways: one is the recognition and congratulation of a normal, common event in democracies; two, the claim that secularism has been violated by this incident. And from both points of view, I believe we should be getting away with it. Dear friends, democracy is the name of a regime with free and equal citizens, and secularism is the name of a social peace order where different lifestyles can express themselves freely. If there are citizens in a country with privileged rights, they can't talk about democracy because democracy doesn't accept inequality. So I say that now, each of us must make an effort to eliminate the inequality that exists among our open-minded citizens in all areas. And now we must surrender that this is a normal act of democracy and secularism. Dear friends, look, today, we don't have a single headscarf citizen in our great House. Why? Is that not a clear inequality? So it's not against democracy and the democratic representation system? Look, guys, this also means the extortion of some of our women's rights to be elected. We need to show that we can't digest this anymore, otherwise we can't be democrats. Dear MPs, Turkey is at a better point than yesterday, our democracy is getting deeper, more radical. Turkey is becoming normal in every area, normalizing, disparaging of existing inequalities. We all need to make meaningful and principled contributions to this process. I say the principle should be that we want what we want for ourselves, and we want what we want for others, no less, no more. May this event in Adıyaman make us all rethink the basis of this understanding, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0005par0047	Thank you, Mr. Metiner. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Ankara MP Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri, who asked for a statement about the nationality issue in national education. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0006par0052	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the national issue of national education. I salute you all. The national is what belongs to the nation. Nationality represents the people's history, geography, wealth and support effort. It's national to want people to develop and strengthen by defending their existence and support, to see basic and common values as a determinant. Education all over the world moves away from the physical to the abstract and from the national to the universal. National values and history-free education systems breed generations who don't know who they serve. A healthy, balanced, and powerful society emerges from a educational system that raises religious, national, and historically conscious individuals. Nationality is consciousness, the awareness of the nation that belongs, of the history, of the moving culture, of the direction of the qiblah. It is observed that the Ministry of Education, with the concept of nationalism at its head, has grown increasingly far away from nationalism with its recent practices. Instead of dealing with the enormous problems of education, the Ministry of National Education has made it his business to deal with national values, symbols, and values. The mentality that dominates the Ministry of National Education is offended by the promise of the one who says, "Happy is the Turk!" My Turk, my righteousness, my hard work. Our oath, which began with the word, has opened up into discussion. He is busy discussing the Hitabesi of Ataturk, which began with Turkish youth. Finally, the National Ministry of Education, which was uncomfortable with the way national holidays were celebrated, tried to reduce the festivals to an ethnographic and folkloric material, setting up a regulation on how to celebrate national holidays. The requirement to be Turkish and Muslim has been lifted from the Darşafaka Charter. The final skill of the Ministry of National Education is to dig up the grave of Arif Nihat Asia's Flag poem, which is in the books of Turkish literature, which is not looking at you with my eyes. I will destroy the nest of the bird that flies without greeting you. Poet said, "Let me build monuments for the treacherous eyes that look at you. Should I ignore you and embrace the enemy who invades the country?" To hold on to the purpose or list of national education? This mindset is the mindset that skins Mansur the Hallmaster because he says, "You are ignorant of grief." Don't be surprised if they try to pull out the lines of the flag like they did in the flag poem, because they don't have a rose or a rose for my hero race for ever, and they don't have my race for the sake of racism. This illegitimate mentality is the illusion on which the flag is raised, and if anyone dies for it, it's home. If he tries to ban it because it involves death and blood, don't put it aside. The art, the metaphor, the metaphor, the metaphor, the prose, an unintelligible mentality seems to dominate the Ministry of National Education. Even the lawyers call it the word and soul of the law. The Ministry of National Education punishes poetry by uploading the shallow perception of its own low profile. In recent developments, national education is seen as increasing the sovereignty of a masonic mentality that is unique to Turkey. There are nationally disabled people in this country, there are some who can't say they're from the Turkish nation, there are some who are historically disabled, there are some who are ignorantly making accusations against your history. There are people who are handicapped, and there are people on top of them who have claimed to be murderers in a place where they can defend the state they're standing in. There are those who are incapable of independence, there are those who argue that being independent and free, or rather, the importance of being a man, is lost. In short, there are sons in this country. Now, there's also the flag-impaired. I have brought a flag for Arif Nihat Asia, the Flag poet, not for those who are ignorant of poetry, poets, nationalities, flagless. I'm going to read his Flag Poem without censorship with the flag: [[Mr. Hatip opened his Turkish flag on the stand]] I'm going to read his Flag Poem without censorship with the flag: [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] O, the white and red ornament of the blue skies, My sister's wedding dress, the last covering of my martyr! The light, the light, the wave, my flag, I've read your epic, I'll write your epic. I'll dig your grave. I'm going to break his home. Where you wave, no fear, no sorrow, Give me and me a place in your shadow! Not in the morning, not in the day. The light of the moon-star flag in the dorm is enough...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0007par0086	You open the flag, open the flag!
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0006par0087	The day the war took us to the snowy mountains, We've warmed up with your redness, On the day when He will cast them down from the mountains into the desert, We took refuge in your shadow...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0008par0091	Don't use the flag in your speech.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0006par0092	(sing) O now that you're filtered, the winds are wavy (sing)
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0008par0093	Don't use it.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0006par0094	The dove of peace, the eagle of war...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0009par0095	What's the matter with you?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0008par0096	Don't use the flag; it's our Turkish flag!
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0006par0097	My flower that blooms in high places...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0010par0098	Open the flag, open the flag!
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0006par0099	I was born under you, I'll die at your feet.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0010par0101	Open the flag and let him see!
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0006par0102	People take care of the people's flag, and you take care of it! [Applause from MHP rows, applause from AK PARTY rows (!) [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This flag is the flag of all of us! We condemn you!
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0011par0105	Don't use the flag! Don't shout!
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0012par0106	Put it in Ahmed's eye, Ahmad. Put it in his eye! In the eye, in the eye!
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0006par0107	I condemn you. Then get out of there and explain to me why you took it out! Get out, explain why you took it off! Don't use the flag! You're taking the flag off! We won't let him! Know that!
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0013par0110	Mr. Yeniçeri, it's okay...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0014par0111	Don't fuck with me!
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0015par0112	You're a tool for everything! Damn you!
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0016par0113	Why are you getting involved in everything! Speech!
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0014par0114	The flag of the Turkish nation!
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0016par0115	And our flag! Speech! What are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0017par0116	People, take care of the flag! You have no right to speak!
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0018par0117	Why do you bother?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0019par0118	Put it in your eye!
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0020par0119	Flag again! The flag of the nation!
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0018par0120	Don't you have the right to ask this Minister of National Education for an account?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0021par0121	You'll tell that to the Minister of National Education!
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0020par0122	The Minister of National Education is our minister!
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0022par0123	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0023par0124	Does your Minister have a precedent?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0022par0125	Congressmans, according to Article 60, I will make a promise to 10 of our friends. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0024par0129	Mr. President, thank you. Today, the animal maker's support has become a liability to the manufacturer. In Anatolia, there is an unsustainable case of silly disease. As of today, animal markets are closed across the country. Debts, payments can't be paid, I draw the attention of the House. The ministry's market value is 3.5 or 4 thousand liras, and the tender price of cattle is 6,700-7. It is based on the address between 000 liras. He lends money to the villagers. I ask that this matter be evaluated in the Council of Ministers. The situation is grave. I'd like to invite the Prime Minister and his deputies on duty. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0025par0132	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0026par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. June 12th was the 93rd anniversary of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's arrival in Amasya, and the writing of Amasya Tamimi. The integrity of the city, the independence of the nation, is at stake. İstanbul is unable to fulfill its responsibility for the government. The nation's independence will again save the nation's determination and decision. The Grand Leader, Ataturk Erzurum and Sivas, who went on the road saying, "It will save the nation's determination and decision." If this struggle for salvation had not been fought, we would not be under the sacred roof today, we would not be able to perform our meetings in mosques and mosques, our children would not be able to learn our religion, and who knows who would be occupied by our country's lands. Let's appreciate today and take care of our past. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0027par0138	Dear Varli...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0028par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. Inflation is said to be 11 per cent, while last year's fertilizer prices have increased by 25 per cent, while diesel prices have increased by 25 per cent, while wheat prices have dropped by 10 per cent, cotton prices have dropped by about 50 per cent, and animal prices have dropped by close to 50 per cent compared to last year. Still, those who claim that the farmer is good, that the farmer earns money, don't they live in this country? Or do we not live in this country? I wonder if they're talking to people in space. In cotton, the cotton fields are about to run out, and we're going to be completely dependent on the outside. Please, let the government take that into account, a little bit more, so that they create policies that protect the farmer, the man who makes it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0029par0143	Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0030par0145	Mr. President, thank you. Politics has a responsibility: if there is a problem within its territory, it has a task of asking it in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, research. That's why I had the Uzbucak Factory that fought for a long time in Adana province. There were 700 people who worked for five years, ten years, and thirty years. This Uzbug Factory left 700 people at the door, saying they were bankrupt in 2009, so it did not pay their salaries and compensations. Therefore, because they were in debt to the public, the public seized the property of this firm, these Uzbugs, it became a case, it became a subject. We want politicians to be sensitive to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and politicians at the point of helping people who can't get their rights on this issue and therefore suffer from bankruptcy. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0031par0148	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0032par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to express the dimensions of the Blackbuke Province where environmental problems have reached. An environmental disaster occurs in the village of Down Red (Asit) where the garbage of the Blackbuke Province is being dumped. The garbage is being mixed up unguarded, medical waste is sometimes dumped in this area. The planned new solid waste conversion field is located in the landslide area, and must be replaced immediately. As a result of the breaking of the city's sewer network, the canal waters flow into the village or into the Onion Tea. The filters from the cement factory 300 meters away are not controlled enough. In the end, unfortunately, in the 90-digit village, there have been more than 50/40-year-old cancer deaths, nine brain tumors, and now four people are in the hospital. I ask that this environmental disaster of the Blackbuke Province be brought to light as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0033par0153	Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0034par0155	Mr. President, a year after the elections, I'd like to address the representation of the people's will in Congress, the arrested MPs, and the special-duty courts. The eight elected deputies are still not released. The sole responsibility for the detention of these MPs is a government understanding describing those who oppose themselves and disapprove of their politics as the backyard of terrorism. This understanding described Kurdish demands as part of terrorism and adopted a new strategy, transforming special-duty courts into anti-terrorism institutions. In private law, special judiciary and procedure, while not being a member of the organisation, it is possible for MP Aysel Tugluk to be sentenced to 14 years and seven months in prison with a peculiarity, such as committing crimes on behalf of the organisation. The problem is not the Kurdish problem. It is the problem of terrorism. It is the result of thousands of detentions and imprisonments and demanding people digesting their politician. My wish is that the CHP, which has offered the Prime Minister an offer, can also see it. The government and parliament will, democracy and the representation of the people who have turned into a killing machine, cannot speak of the government and parliament's will, which has not lifted the courts. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0035par0158	Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0036par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. The victims of the Simav earthquake on 19 May 2011 have not been solved in the past year. Likewise, as a result of an earthquake of 4.3 today around 9:40 p.m., the owners of Simav's rights reported their rebellion against AFAD. Although there was a promise of 3+1 and a basement in July 2011, the tender was cancelled, these people were left on the street. Our citizens whose homes have been destroyed due to severe damage to villages and cities are victims, riots, streets. Today the government is on the verge of a social explosion, and I hope this is the last time, and I urge you to listen to the cries of these people. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0037par0163	Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0038par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. After the adoption of the Farmer's Landing Law on June 11, 1945, Sunday (June 11th) is celebrated every year as Earth Day. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting has launched a work to celebrate Earth Day. And I'd like to ask you, does Minister 5403 begin this exercise, considering the Law on Land Protection and Land? Also, will the amendment to the Law on the Invention of Olives and Wilds of Olives 3573 perform a study on relevant substances in the Law, or the Law on Urban Transformation? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0039par0168	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0040par0170	Thank you, Mr. President. Crimea Congo Bleeding Fever is threatening our country more and more year after year, and sad circumstances occur that result in death. As a result of a tick bite, the number of citizens diagnosed with Crimean Congo Bleeding Fever is increasing day by day. Recently, our citizen who lives in the village of Ardanuk, Ardanuk district of Artvin, was transferred to Erzurum Ataturk University Research Hospital, where he died, unfortunately. Therefore, the fact that we have citizens who have lost their lives due to an increase in the results of the Kene case in Artvin province and its districts has left our people in the region concerned about livestock and agriculture. In view of the ministries concerned, I would like to request that the government take the necessary measures to inform the people in the region and to eliminate the sad consequences. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0041par0174	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0042par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. And I particularly want to draw attention to forest fires these days when temperatures are rising. You know, most of the forests of Turkey are first-degree and second-degree sensitive forests to fire. Forest fires are an environmental disaster, and jobs that are very dangerous to our future. But I would like to warn the Minister once again that this season of fire, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs is still working on assignments. In particular, personnel at the fire-sensitive district managers, business managers are anxious and on the agenda of the transfer. A ministry to deal with forest fires, a Forest General Directorate, is still busy with moving, busy with who's going where. Hopefully, despite all the resources, the most important thing to put out fires is the human element. In a place where the human element is destroyed, there are serious problems. I say, "God help those who fight fire from forest workers to their engineers in this new fire season." I say, "Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0041par0178	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0043par0180	Mr. President, under the NGO's secret regulations, students who study at universities are still reported every three months, are given disciplinary sentences for those who want to study in the Kurdish main language and expelled from school. We see the government in an intimate test of this elective course. The expulsion of thousands of students today, the disciplinary action, and their motives have also been eliminated. I think the government should take care of these victims. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0041par0182	We're going on the agenda. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The membership of Sinop MP Mehmet Ersoy, reported by the Justice and Development Party Group Chairman Mehmet Ersoy, has been dissolved since Karabuk MP Mehmet Ali Şahin has resigned from Karadeniz's membership in Parliamentary Assembly of Economic Co-operation. In accordance with the Article (a) joke, the General Assembly is submitted to the information of the Court of Ministers. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the reasons for cigarette smuggling and the measures to be taken by investigating non-registered trade in our country, we respectfully submit to the need for the opening of Parliamental Research under the 98th, 104th and 105th Articles of the Turkish National Assembly. 17.11.2011 [[Kütahya]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 6) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Elazığ]] [[Scholarship]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Kayseri]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Mughle]] [[Lug]] [[Ankara]] [[Erzurum]] 20) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Kastamon]] 22) Suleiman Nevzat does not fear [[Isparta]] [[Aydın]] The 2010 report of the Department of Trafficking and Fighting Organised Crime (KOM) office noted a significant increase in cigarette smuggling among the major profits of the terrorist organisation, drawing attention to cigarette and drink trafficking that hit the economy. The report said there have been significant increases in the number of illegal cigarettes caught in operations aimed at the connections of the international network established in recent years. A large number of illegal cigarettes from Iraq, Iran and Syria have entered Turkey through Van, Ağrı and Artvin, as well as the distribution network through Hakkari, Şırnak, Mardin, Hatay and Şanlıurfa. In 2008 and 2009, about 10 million packets of illegal cigarettes were captured, while the amount seized in 2010 showed 43.5 million packages, showing the extent and seriousness of the work, while it is estimated that cigarette smuggling will reach much higher levels, as the recent increases in 2011 also affected. The most seized cities ranked Van, Şanlıurfa and İstanbul provinces in the first three places, while 15,000 people were also taken into custody in operations. From illegal cigarettes, it is known that both the Turkish economy and the tradesman who pays taxes to the state have been damaged. The tax increase in cigarettes greatly increases the fugitive in the sector, while the increase in illegal cigarettes by 400 per cent in 2010 in exchange for a 15% drop in cigarette sales is an indication of how important the issue is. Although illegal smoking has changed between 10% and 20% in our western provinces, the change between 60% and 80% in our eastern and southeast provinces also reveals another dimension of the issue. The Ankara Chamber of Commerce reported that 25,000 tonnes of illegal cigarettes were smuggled into Turkey every year, in other words, one of the six cigarettes in our country were illegal and the state lost 2.5 billion dollars every year due to cigarette smuggling. The report also states that the most illegal cigarettes were smuggled into Turkey from Iraq, where illegal cigarettes were introduced in northern Iraq, Dohuk and Süleymaniye, and where large quantities of cigarettes entered our country were free zones, and that crime organizations made $1m net money in each container. It is also emphasised that each passenger from abroad can bring a carton of cigarettes free of taxes, but in practice it is applied as three cartons, that 2,000 people from the Georgian border crossing go to Iran every day and return with 6,000 cartons of cigarettes, and a carton of cigarettes purchased from Iran for 15 TL is sold for 40 euro in Turkey on the same day. In addition to claims that cigarettes that have been seen as exported by some companies in Turkey have been identified with false stamp and seals, they have been sold directly within the country without any customs treatments, they have been issued a declaration of actual customs releases, cigarette-loaded containers, the seal has been broken at night, the cigarettes have been emptied, the rags, the toilet paper, or left empty containers have been sealed and sealed, as well as the claims that containers that are thought to have been exported abroad in accordance with customs. The fact that cigarette smuggling is less risky and easier than gun or drug trafficking, the lack of cost, and the lack of punishment according to existing laws, increases interest in illegal and counterfeit cigarettes. The issue has become increasingly a matter of national security. At the same time, the state is taxed for 2.5 billion dollars each year, while the terrorist organisation PKK provides serious logistical support. Intelligence reports by security units indicate that the counterfeit cigarette introduced to the Turkish market was produced in cigarette factories established in northern Iraq, and the PKK played an active role in bringing it into the country and distributing it. For reasons stated above, a Parliamentary Research is required in our country to determine the reasons for cigarette smuggling and measures to be taken by investigating the unregistered trade. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In 1963, the Ankara Agreement was signed in 1970, with the approval of our candidacy for full membership at Helsinki's 1999 EU State and Government Presidents summit, which began with the application launched on October 31, 1959. On 8 March 2001, the first certificate of accession was approved by the EU Council, and on 17 December 2004, our full accession process began on 3 October 2005 as part of the EU Summit of Presidents of the EU and Government. The expected developments in the past six years have been unresolved, the 33 topics that need to be closed in talks to achieve their goal of full membership have only been closed, as the EU Progress Report, which was announced on October 12, 2011, found that there are many shortcomings in the political field; concerns that the reforms needed to be met by identifying and resolving these shortcomings and resolving the democratic and living standards of the people living in our country have come to be strongly implemented. As it is known, in Croatia, which began full accession talks with Turkey at the same time and will be accepted as a full member in 2013, the Commission for the Watchers of the EU has been established to monitor the process, track shortcomings, move inter-party talks in areas that require reform, and take concrete steps that affect the country's common destiny in a spirit of solidarity. Croatia, with the opposition party taking over the chairmanship of the commission, has been achieved by efforts as a nation. In a sense, there is a great benefit in establishing a research commission that will also assume the mandate of Turkey's Commission on Watching Talks with the EU. In this way, it will be possible for concrete proposals to live by clearly expressing areas that the government has overlooked or neglected. All of these reasons, given the phase of full accession with the EU in six years, until now, the measures to determine in which areas and why the process has come to a standstill, the EU Progress Report and other basic documents, the detection of areas that need urgent reforms and the setting of the frameworks of these reforms, the detection of the problems in the process of full membership with the EU must be determined to prevent these problems from happening. To this end, the Constitution is 98, and the Constitution is 104 and 105. In accordance with the clauses, I respectfully submit to the opening of a parliamentary investigation. [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] 3) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 7) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[Sinop]] [[Bolu]] 10) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Army]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[Artvin]] [[İstanbul]] 23) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] 26) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[İstanbul]] [[40s.]] 29) Osman Taney Örkurk [[İstanbul]] 30) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] 32) Osman Faruk Logoglu [[Adana]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to identify the existing problems of the Organised Industrial Zones (OSB) today, these problems will be resolved and the measures needed to be taken so that they can be better than their present situation, the Constitution will be investigated in 98. and 104 and 105 of the TBM Administration. In accordance with the clause, we respectfully request and demand that the investigation be opened. 17/11/2011 1) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] [[Elizipt]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] 9) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Kütahya]] [[Antalya]] [[Adana]] [[Inconceived]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 15) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Adana]] [[Aydın]] [[Lug]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Scholarship]] 21) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Erzurum]] We are always defending the engine duty of our Turkish industry in economic and social development. So we believe that the issue of the Organised Industrial Zone (OSB) should be first understood and then approached as a national issue of the importance of the government, then the whole community. The lack of legal regulation of our Organised Industrial Territories, with nearly 40 years of history in our country, was dealt with by the Law on Organised Industrial Territories No. 4562 during the 57th Government. It was intended by this law to establish our industry in regular areas, to direct urbanization, to prevent environmental problems, to use information and IT technologies, to ensure a regular and adequate infrastructure, to build the manufacturing industry within a specific plan. But since 2003, many of our OSB's problems have not been solved by the current government. Today, our OSBs are facing many solutions, such as tax pressure, insufficient incentives, high energy input prices, transportation, and the irregularity in production construction rates. However, our OSBs are the apple of the eye of our country and are one of the lifebloods of our economy. Therefore, it is a great task for our Assembly to investigate measures that must be taken in order to identify the existing problems of the Organised Industrial Zones (OSB) today, to address them, and to improve their present situation. In order for our High Council to carry out this commission, the Constitutional Assembly is 98. and 104 and 105 of the TBM Administration. Under the clause, a Parliamentary Research Commission must be established. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. Mr. Ayşe Nurkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mr. Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Mr. Ahmet Aydın Üdıyaman, who is ranked in the 1st rank of Justice and Development Party Group Chairs İstanbul MP, Mr. Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mr. Kareseri MP, Mr. Karesun MP, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mr. Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Mr. Ahmet Aydın, we will continue to talk on the amendments of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Institution Proposal Proposal Proposal. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We are starting talks with İstanbul MP Aydın Agha Ayaydın, who is in the 2nd place of the 2rd place of the Law on Economics and Investment Systems, and with the draft of the Laws and Decisions under some Laws and Laws Act, and with the Plan and Budget Commission Report for Amendments in the 193 Taxes Act; Kayseri MP Mr Ahmet Ökzazkaya and 5 MPs. The commission is here. The government is here. In yesterday's merger, the vote was completed in the second part of the bill, which was considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. We now begin the talks of section three. The third chapter covers the 51st and 71st clauses, including the temporary 1st and 2nd article. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Müslim Sarı has asked for a statement on the third chapter. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Yellow.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0044par0399	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. We did a lot of hard work late last night. We did some evaluations there. We haven't had a chance to make some more technical assessments of the third chapter, of course, but we've done more evaluations on the Turkish economy. Now, while I've been promised the majority of the third chapter, I'd like to make some assessments of the contents of the third chapter. As I said earlier, recent arrangements for increasing domestic savings have been coming up. So this is positive with a dimension because really the structural problem of the Turkish economy and the structural problem is that domestic savings are low. The low domestic savings rates also create a serious deficit of current transactions. This is the soft belly of Turkey's economy, and therefore, in order to get Turkey's economy on a healthy path, domestic savings must be raised, but this is also a confession because domestic savings are low and the bottom has been under AKP governments. During a government period of about ten years, national savings have been reduced to 13 per cent from 18 per cent to the lowest domestic savings rates of Turkey historically. In the 1970s, in the 1980s, and in the 1990s, our domestic savings rates are much higher than that. So we are dealing with a problem that AKP governments have actually brought, created, and deepened economic policies by AKP governments. This is exactly the extent of the confession of proposals for increased domestic savings, one after the other. (x) 271 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 118th Consolidation Charter, dated 12/6/2012. Dear friends, the Turkish economy may have a growth potential of around 7 per cent, if the right policies are implemented. However, domestic investment rates need to be boosted. While domestic investment rates are being raised, however, they need to be financed with domestic savings, not foreign savings, which will not create new vulnerability. One of the most important feet is no doubt corporate savings. Corporate savings are at a very important point. When you look at the content of the law, we see that four fundamental areas have been identified in relation to increasing institutional savings. One of them is insurance, the other is BES, the other is a rental certificate, and the last one is called individual participation capital, which is the work angels. First of all, I'd like to criticize the fact that such important legal arrangements to increase domestic savings are being brought to our attention by another bag of legislation. While we're working on the Plan and Budget Commission, we see that the bill, which has 58 articles in the first phase, then has thirteen clauses added to it and is constantly added to its content by the General Assembly's motions. So we see that, again, this issue, which needs to be treated more fully, not intermittently, but more analyticly, is being sacrificed in a bag of legislation. Secondly, I regret to inform you that during our studies, we have not received serious information from the part of the public bureaucracy, especially when we are trying to mature our thoughts on the rent certificate. We have not yet received this law, even though we have requested it over and over again, both the Treasury Law Counseling and the Finance Ministry General Directorate's opinion on this issue, especially the legal infrastructure related to the rental certificate. So we want to know what the relevant institutions think about it, we want to know, and I want to tell you that we haven't. We would especially like to convey our concerns to the President of the Plan and Budget Commission. In the framework that the law envisions institutional investments to increase institutional savings, if we make a general assessment of insurance management, we can say that Turkey has an estimated $16 billion insurance premium, and this has a very low rate of national income, around 2%, or less than 2%. The premium production of $116 per person, and with this bonus production, Turkey is the 64th country in the world. It's also an advantage. So insurance is, of course, a culture, and with economic arrangements alone, we can't achieve the results we want to achieve, we need to look at them in a more general framework. But I also see that this is an advantage because there's a virgin area here, so with the right arrangements, it might be possible to get some serious momentum here. However, we have been given information in our interrogations about how much savings will increase in the insurance sector, or how much institutional savings it will contribute to, and that in the next three years, insurance premium production will only lead to a 1 or 2 billion dollars increase, even the relevant bureaucrats have said. So we do not consider this arrangement for the insurance foot to lead to a serious increase in domestic savings. The most crucial part of this bill is the part about BES. We know that the individual pension system is growing very quickly, it has increased over 16 billion, and there are 2.8 million participants. In particular, some arrangements made here are positive despite their shortcomings. In the next decade, we have a field that will increase the rate of national income to 4 per cent, and I believe that further incentives, evaluations, and holistic laws must continue. The most critical is the arrangement for the rent certificate in regard to this law and the size of institutional savings. In fact, this is a different way of reflecting the sukuku in our legal system, which is to get into the law, and what we're told is that the cost of borrowing can be reduced by 0.40 or 0.50 base points because the vehicle and investor base is diversified. But we don't understand much about how this law, which is extremely complex and we have reservations about legal infrastructure, can reduce the cost of debt. It is clear that the cost of a very complicated and bureaucratic procedure is at stake. Clearly, there is a weakness involved in the legal infrastructure. On the other hand, what we've achieved in interrogations about how much a fund size or how much it will contribute to domestic savings is this: We predict that only one or two billion dollars of investment can come to Turkey through this system. We have about five or six billion dollars of eurobond exports a year as our Undersecretary of Treasury. We consider that a small portion of this will be provided from here. Thus, there will be no significant contribution to domestic savings on this issue. Finally, the system, which is called individual accession capital, or occupational angels, is about the legalisation of something that already exists in the system, the creation of its legal infrastructure. We're not talking about a very large area here, we're talking about an investment of about 170-200 million dollars. As a result, the most important problem of Turkey's economy is the current account deficit, and this structural problem is related to increasing domestic savings. We think that increasing domestic savings is only possible by radical intervention in the production structure that Turkey has been editing since January 24th decisions and the economic understanding of this, rather than by a more general and a little bit more general and in the system and in the production structure of the production structure of Turkey. We consider that the impact of this bill on individual investment, or rather its impact on domestic savings, will be limited, and we think it is important to increase domestic savings with more general, more holistic laws. I pay my respects to everyone. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0045par0415	Thank you, Mr. Yellow. Mr Mehmet Günal of Antalya on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0046par0419	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, we continue to follow the third chapter of the study that lasted until 4 a.m. yesterday. Of course, in my speech on general, I mentioned that if there are friends who aren't here, as a reminder to them, with such a working order, with such a law-making order, with the right to live, we can't get these arrangements from here. So you're bringing in a bag of laws looking for solutions to some problems, even though it's not from the tip or the edge. Of course, the heart wants to look at them, to be settled on them, to have laws that will be passed by compromise, even if there are flaws at certain points. As a matter of fact, we did some important work on the subcommittee, on the commission, on some shortcomings. Though there are some flaws, dear friends, sometimes the trick gets in the way. Is it possible to make a healthy law in such an environment, Minister? Until morning, under the circumstances... now, no interested ministers. So we understand that they left so we could hurry up and finish because he was busy. Mr. Flagtar is here. All the ministers of the government are valued, but the subject of the matter... our friends will soon ask questions, and the Minister will say, "I'll give them in writing, I'm not their heir." Why? Because Mr. Secretary wasn't on duty until morning, he came on duty today. What about us? So our fellow lawmakers here are standing in the lines of opposition again, and I told you in the evening, I don't understand why the ruling ranks are empty when such an important law is being discussed. So you've put a lot of big targets here. Let's strengthen the Istanbul Financial Center. Anything on the Istanbul Financial Center? Nothing but two financial instruments. Two: Let's reduce the savings deficit. Is there anything other than the incentive you've given to the individual pension system? I don't have that either. That's how we don't know how to give it away.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0047par0422	Mr. Günal...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0046par0423	So it's not obvious. When I say it, I mean, it's obvious how they're going to get it, Mr. Sadik. It's unclear. Now, I've said some things to you this evening, but we may have friends who haven't heard, and the citizen is not in the mood to participate. I mean, it's like...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0047par0424	That politics... that's something else...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0046par0425	It's not politics. Now, who's gonna buy it? You said, "Sir, if you give 100 liras, we will contribute to 25 liras." That's good. So, where is the citizen going to get 75 liras of this $100? So when we encourage savings, we teach students at the university that it's a function of income. That's what we learned. Savings is a function of income. So, what do we do if we don't have that much in revenue growth, especially if we don't have an increase in the average citizen's income? Who's gonna find that 75 lira and we're gonna put another 25 on it? Now, okay, you say there is. I'll give you two numbers now. Consider the situation of the citizens' debt. Let's see if these citizens can actually benefit from this individual incentive, retirement. The consumer's credits and credit card debt are now $235.5 billion for the citizen. So you're going to say, well, the debt is increasing. I'm going to give you a percentage of the future. In 2002, it was only $6.5 billion; it's now 23.5.5. He's saying where he's going, Mr. Prime Minister. You're saying, teacher, give me the numbers. It's absolute numbers, it changes a lot. We're looking at proportions. The amount of debt revenue is 7.5 per cent in 2002; 44.7% in 2012. So he spends 44.7 per cent of his income on debt. Now, do you have any idea how much credit and credit cards you can't pay back in credit card debt? In 2002, it was only $278 million, and now it's a loan and credit card that can't be paid $7.3 billion. So, now that there are millions of people who can't even pay off their credit debt, their credit card debt, and they've put a cash withdrawal ban on BDK, we're saying, "How are we going to get the desired result?" Oh, is that necessary? Yeah. Positive? Yeah. But there's no way we can increase the savings deficit by simply encouraging individual retirement in a certain way. We're going to cut down on our expenses, we're going to compromise on the luxury cars we buy, and we're going to save in other areas as governments and public institutions first, and we're going to tell the citizens that, look, as the government, we've increased our savings on certain issues, so pay attention to your expenses. We say that every bill of law has to be analysed under the Prime Minister's Act of Prepment. We've been saying it over and over. Our friends gave us some numbers. We said, "Disperse these." But our precious bureaucrats said some of them, for some reason. They say that on our insistence, as if they're being embarrassed, bored, given classified information on the subcommittee. Yesterday Mr. Kuşoglu expressed himself here, I asked for one report, I asked for one, he hasn't come yet. Now, what about the burden of this on the budget? He says: "What if it's not so much?" Why? Before, there was a tax exception. That's what we're going to give you. We're not asking for it. We have a budget for the Plan and Budget Commission. You call it budget discipline. If we apply it this way, when the law is in effect, in 2012 -- 2013-2014, are we doing the Midterm Program? We're doing it. Are we doing a midterm financial plan? We're doing that -- we need to know how much we're going to drill this, where we're going to get it, where we're going to get it, what income we're going to get. Now, if you bring it up in a hurry without doing any of this, and then the day it comes to the Plan and Budget Commission, after we've discussed and merged so much in the subcommittee, let's put together a 20-point law proposal. If you say it's disrespectful, then it's disrespectful to the plan and the Budget Commission. Why are we setting up a subcommittee, dear friends? The subcommittee is being set up for further investigation of the bill and proposals that require technical examination. We put it together on the subcommittee, came to the top commission, came across a 20-point bag. Now, this time we're in a position to prevent it. We sat down with friends, we talked, they took some of it out, but that's not the way it works. If there is something -- we've stated it several times -- if you're going to take structural measures, come and inform the opposition. In urgent cases, we, the National Movement Party, have always had a constructive, guiding, compromised sense of opposition, dear friends. You'll come, these things are urgent, these things need to come out... but now we're looking inside, there's a lot of things that aren't urgent. So I'll tell you two items that we pulled out of the Plan Budget Commission. They called in friends, thanks to our commissioner and our fellow commissioners from other parties. The first two articles are about the Justice Commission. The bag's okay, it's not that big of a bag. It's a law-making concept, that's what I'm trying to tell you. Two of them are about the election. One of them was about punishment, let's get him out and the other one stays. Now, we're looking at the other one, the whole legal issue, not our area of expertise. That's why they have to come in order. Some of this is necessary, but there are some things in it that have no urgency. I've told you before, there are laws necessary for structural reforms. You passed the Tourist Guidance Act here last week, Mr. Secretary. The tourism framework law has been waiting for ten years, and it's still there. We -- Mr. Badak here tells me -- we've figured out the guidance, travel agencies on the other side, tour operators somewhere, hotel managers somewhere. We're still waiting, no matter what, to get it out, and we're okay with it. So let's do it the way it is, and I'll do it right away, and I'll take what's missing, but no, we don't have a law. And this time we say, "We encourage you. What do you encourage, and how do we benefit from that encouragement? So we put it here: let's encourage those who build hospitals and build educational facilities. So, two days later, friends come in, and they say: let's reduce it to 100 million, there's no 1 billion-dollar education facility. So why put it there? Or on the other hand, why don't we take advantage of the same exceptions to the private sector's schools, the education facilities that citizens make? Isn't that an injustice? We're putting the same thing in now. They call it strategic investment. I've said it over and over for Antalya, and Mr. Sadik knows it. Sir, strategic investments... I see, if it's over 500 million, I'll give you a VAT there, I'll give it back to you. How many tourism investments are there over 500 million? Or you don't have a chance to do that on the other side when you give it to tourism. We need to do all of this in order to make sure that we do all of this in order to make sure that we do all of this in order to make sure that we don't have to do all of this intangible structural measures. He says, "I give you respect."
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0048par0433	Thank you, Mr. Günal. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Iron Steel. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0049par0436	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute and cherish you all on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. I have made a pledge to share our group's views on the current individual retirement. Mr. President, the problem is structural, historical, and the historical and structural crisis of capitalism is reflected in the rings of the global chain. The insistence of not seeing the problem on this scale -- us -- is an approach that will cause the use of the country's resources as well as the use of its purpose and the destruction of its resources. To address this problem, which is structural and historical, first of all, the political, political-focused legislature had to have a perspective on the solution to this problem, a prerequisite for the community. In that respect, if we want to eliminate the global problem, the reflection of our country, its people, its citizens, its risk -- social and political trauma -- to reduce -- there is no other way but to implement an economic understanding, an economic mentality based primarily on employment and production. You who have a high-tech, weapons-related, import-based economic relationship, in this framework, a country that ends agriculture, animalism, agriculture, and animalism, if it is removed from its ability and ability to use its potentials in line with its purpose, you can't improve its external trade deficit, the budget deficit, in a country that has been removed from production and became a consumer society, and you can't improve its solution projects for society and the public. A society that doesn't produce, produce, divide it fairly and rightly, a social relationship that creates itself over continuous imports and consumption, collapses, and lack of political and social traumas to reproduce itself, you face misfortune, misfortune. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, it is understood that at this scale, there is a political approach, as well as at this particular and personal point, that everyone is subjecting themselves to some social security about their future, his family. It is one of the ways in which the individual's savings, along with the other, have been collected, evaluated, and the current deficit is closed. Today, as a country reduced to 12 per cent of domestic savings, Turkey can't prevent this current deficit from closing, it also causes scissors to expand every day, but remember that in developed countries ruled by advanced democracy, there is a 30 per cent system based on production; two, there is a fair share of revenues from production; three, this share, the average share is above $35,000 per person. In many of our country's cities, including Mush, Ardahan, Kars, Bitlis, and the non-majority of our country, it is to expect the savings of individual retirement and community based on individual retirement, not to see the reality of their existing existence, to mock, to deserve it. In addition to the fact that there is unemployment in our country around 15 per cent, that 15 per cent of it faces a figure that corresponds to 15 million, the reality that 25 million of our population are facing with poverty limits and anxiety, when it is forgotten that the public will be driven to shopping centers every day, with high and indirect taxes, where tax-related transactions are concentrated every day, and by May data, it will be understood that those of us who will receive money from credit cards can't collect about 7.5 billion from credit cards can't be taken, and it will be understood that there's not a very reasonable feature that we're not being able to take into account every day. If the current is intended to be closed open, if the scissors are intended to be narrowed down, what needs to be done is to increase the income of the people and the individual, and increase their income resources. You give them rights and freedom to their savings at the national and social point, as well as the individual's own savings, as well as the individual's own. But in our country, where the minimum wage is 701 lira, where the hunger limit is $1.034, where we can't fix this conflict, when we don't reflect the wealth and try to reach the proper conclusion on them, when we don't act on it, we're going to have to do it to only global capital, to its financial institutions, to its global insurance companies, to the subcontracts of the country, to the community resources in the country; we're going to enrich them; we're going to make them rich, we're going to grow them. We would have reduced the individual, the people, and the people. This is not the mission of the Assembly, it is not the duty of the legislature, which is tasked with giving the people what it takes; it is the duty of the company, it is the duty of companies, it is the duty of institutions and organizations. In this regard, this understanding of individual retirement is a manifestation, a reflection of authoritarian mentality. It's an approach to saving the day, to changing society's agenda with palliative solutions, to saving the day, regardless of society's dynamics and public concerns. This approach is not democratic, it's not human, it's not moral. The problem is unemployment, poverty, poverty, overcoming, overcoming. The problem is that Turkey, which is a country of agriculture and animalism, is a problem of production, development of employment resources, investments, growth, and at that point people may have the opportunity to share, to share, to share its work and its activity. On top of that, he can shape, shape and shape individual and social savings, what he's rightfully given. Beyond, the centralized, state-owned, hierarchical, ruling structures, in the name of the people, in the name of society, are to seize their savings through someone. Beyond that, it is a direct approach to breaking the will of society without adding its fundamental dynamics to the process of making it necessary for the participant democracy, whether it is beneficial or damaged, without being involved in the settlement process. This approach is also unregistered, unconditional. It is not the duty of the Assembly, which we say daily; it is not the responsibility of the authorityary state mentality of the monarchic states, but only -- as I say so. This reflection says it is not the duty of a state of democratic law based on human rights and freedom, it is not the duty of its legislature, and I salute you all once again.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0050par0443	Thank you, Mr. Steel. The first word for the individuals is from Mr. Sadik Badak. Here you go, Mr. Badak.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0051par0446	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the third chapter of the Law Bill 271 that we are discussing. I salute the High Council. Dear friends, this part of the bill is being arranged in the individual pension system. Previously on rent certificates, mandatory insurance regulations and individual accession capital are being prepared for legal infrastructure. Due to its importance, I'd like to contact individual participation capital for a few minutes. I believe that individual accession capital, which has been being used in developed countries for many years, will bring a new breath, especially for financing our businesses. I propose that individual accession capital be focused on the creation of a branch of management counseling for our enterprises in order to increase the success of new businesses established by its name in the West. I believe that this establishment that we're building in our country can be made more useful by supporting new additional elements like this. The development and deepening of our country's economic and social structure also reveals the need for new professions. Following developments in the 1980s, financial counseling became an important profession by law. Again, after the 90s, insurance was certified and became a profession that now has an internship and registration obligation. With modernisation in the agricultural sector starting from the beginning of the 2000s, agricultural counselling took its place in the industry. Again, under the same period, the fair became a professional standard and registered profession within the TOBB. Last week, with the law passed in the Supreme Assembly, our system was given some sort of a mediation for a pre-trial settlement in legal disputes. By providing guidance to the management of our businesses, we need to make professional arrangements that will make their success sustainable. Our country has a private business in manufacturing and service sectors of up to 1 million and 50 companies competing in world markets. In 2023, we aim to increase our exports to $2 trillion in non-major revenues, and $100,000 in the world markets, to $500 billion. In this regard, I think it's time for certified management counselling to become a registered profession and take its place in our economy. Dear lawmakers, individual pension is a complementary income in the retirement period as part of its structure in our country, as well as a savings tool for the individual and for the state. The loss of income between 40 per cent and 60 per cent of the individual's pension is compensated by elements such as individual pension, when the pension of the pension box is retired from mandatory insurance, such as the SEC, BUG-KUR. The first social security institution established in 1921 without our Republic being declared was the Zonguldak Amele Association, which later became a supplementary insurance policy when Law 506 came out and was converted into a collection and aid chest. Individual pension funds are also important for available domestic savings. In some countries, the proportion of individual pension funds is 134.9% in the Netherlands; 123.9% in Iceland; 86.6 in the UK; 25.2 in Japan; only 2.3 per cent in our country. The new arrangement is aimed at boosting individual pension funds. With this law, the size of the funds will reach 115 billion liras and the number of participants will reach 11 million people in the ten-year period when the state contribution system is implemented. I'm running out of time. I'd like to point out that I disagree with some of Mr. Günal's statements here. For example, how is this 25 percent support going to affect the three-year Midterm Program? But he knows very well that this is the support for those who are new to the system. So you know it's not going to affect the first three years in any way. I also want to express the cost of the law-funded incentive to the individual pension system in our country. Under the net public cost calculation, the actual ten-year period envisions a cost of 4/1,000th of the national income. I wish the law to be good for our country, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0052par0457	Thank you, Mr. Badak. Mr. Musa Çam, MP of İzmir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0053par0461	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you all. I have made a personal commitment to individual retirement in 271 rows. Now, I'd like to take you back a little bit about this individual retirement issue. In the 1980s, there was a banking disaster in our country. Right after that, there was a life insurance disaster. Right behind him, there was a fund-raiser. Now, finally, under the name of individual retirement, Turkey is being taken to a new heist formation, and I want to tell you that these savings that our citizen has saved will be transferred to a number of people as a source, that there will be a sequel. Look, guys, we've been through banker's disasters, people in this country, they've taken their savings, they've taken them away, they've put them to bed so they can get three cents more, they can live their lives. What happened? It's gone. In 1983 to 1984, they took out life insurance, people took out life insurance...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0054par0464	It's not life insurance, it's something else.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0053par0465	I'm giving an example, Hajji. You said it, but like you said, Turkey's not so bright. Look, in 1985, the citizen says that the insurance people who came to our village said, "We're going to retire you." They said, "We're going to put you on life insurance." In the letter sent from life insurance, while I'm constantly paying the premiums for fifteen years while I'm waiting to retire and get the pension, they say, "Come and get your money because the money we're sending you can't afford the mail money." They say, "Someone else...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0054par0466	What's the connection?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0055par0467	Don't confuse the two.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0053par0468	I'll make the connection now. Another story: In 1985, three life insurance agents came to Nevşehir Central Health Hospital where I worked and said, "pay a thousand liras a month, and we'll give you $500,000 in 11 years. In those days, I had $52,000 a month, and $500,000 was good money. They really did what they said, they gave me $500,000 in 1997, but I could afford a pack of foreign cigarettes. These are events. Now, you're talking about individual retirement, not this, friends; it's a kind of investment counselling. Now, I asked Ali Babacan tonight, and I said to the Minister, "Did you have any personal retirement requests for these 15 companies?" Did he? He didn't say, he said: "This is special." Now, my friends, when the Minister is 45 years old, when he retires as an individual, he's going to pay a bonus by the age of fifty-six, and he's going to pay a bonus for eleven years. Eleven years later, he paid the bonus, how much? 20 billion. And 20 billion is this thing, let's call it interest, 40 billion. The company will say: "O Ali Babacan, either I give you the 40 billion at once or I give it to you twice or I pay you 2,000 lira a month, 2,000 lira a month, 20 months a month. It's not. Like the SEC, like the BUG-KUR, is it like the Retirement Chest? It's not. So it's not individual retirement; it's the evaluation of savings, the savings of citizens through an institution, the interest, the denomination, and the repayment after that, my friends. This is a robbery, it's a raid. If the state is going to make a contribution here, then why isn't Social Insurance being contributed to, why isn't it being done to the Retirement Chest, and why isn't it being done to BUG-KUR, and now it's being transferred here under the name of individual retirement? This is the transfer of funds to new capital groups in Turkey, to new people, to the financial centre of Istanbul again. It's not the right job. This will lead Turkey to new banker disasters and life insurance disasters. We want to underline that in particular. And you cheat, you cheat, you say individual retirement. I mean, what does that have to do with retirement, paying twice at a time? People pay premiums for twenty years, twenty-five years, they work -- but from BUG-KUR, but from the SEC, but from the Retirement Chest -- they pay their premiums, and they retire when their days are up. For years, those people have been living on their pensions. When they pass away, they are paid to the widow who is left behind or to the orphan child. Is there such an event in this individual retirement system? There's no such thing, guys. You paid, you're done, fellas. So, where's his retirement? You took it to the X bank, or you put it in a bond, or you put it in a bond, or you put it in interest, or you put it in the stock market... When the time comes, you take your money, you're out of the picture. This is not an individual pension, this is a new order of robberies. That's capitalism. In the 1980s, these events were tried, done and bankrupted in Chile, South America, and in the countries where dictators lived. Now, you're bringing a bankrupt system back here, and you're trying to implement it here. This is not the right system. You're going to play with the savings of our people, and you're going to give resources to some people, and you're going to give resources to your own supporters, saying, "We're going to make Istanbul a financial center." That's not true, and I'm saying it's going to cause new disasters. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0056par0477	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Moving on to QA. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0057par0480	Thank you, Mr. President. 1-Mr. Secretary, how much is the premium for private retirement for minimum wage? How did the government come up with this payment plan in the next midterm, and how much will it bring? 2- What arrangement is involved in returning the cutbacks of private insurance companies? Will the citizen who wants to leave get the full amount of money back when he wants to leave? Or will these companies continue to make a living, as they have now, as a source of land through the citizens? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0058par0484	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0059par0485	Thank you. Minister, there is a problem with housing projects in Istanbul. So with three precedents, six precedents, even nine precedents, a number of housing projects that cannot be granted a residence permit becomes a problem among citizens, because the apartments that have been promised in exchange for the money collected cannot be given. This problem has been brought to the press. Our citizens who have had this problem have been visiting groups in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for a day or two. Especially since some municipalities do not make the necessary inspections at this point, these housing projects that we watch from ads evolve into a new banking disaster. Are you aware of this? Do you have a precaution? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0060par0488	Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0061par0489	I'd like to present to the minister an energy-related issue:.... that all the streams of the country were given HES licenses to cover the energy deficit. We know very well that the benefits of these are not energy production, but draining the environment, and especially opening the water to the commercial market. In spite of the public's resistance, these practices are being carried out, despite the public's opinion, where environmental impact assessment practices are not being conducted. Many of these people, who last claimed the stream of Tripoli Solakuk Valley, were taken into custody by over 20 people. Mr. Secretary, when are you going to stop these hydropower plants that are said to be over 2,000 in the country?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0060par0490	Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0062par0491	Thank you, Your Honor. Reverend Minister, we are now, of course, discussing people's individual pension laws, but in Iğdur, human rights are threatened. How is he threatened? We have HES based on your Ministry, which is made in Iğdır. All of our citizens, let alone retirement, their only livelihood is farmland, but unfortunately, we didn't oppose these -- we didn't in time, and we regret it, too. - Karakurt and the HESESTs in the Paper don't give water to the citizens. Now, if these citizens can't find water and water their fields, Mr. Secretary, what will these citizens eat and drink? We're here, of course, to talk about retirement, and all those citizens have to worry about is the watering of the land of our citizens, where the hens don't give water. Please find a solution.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0063par0494	Mr. Spectacle...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0064par0495	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister two questions: my first question -- we referred to the Minister yesterday but I didn't get an answer -- I want to repeat it -- the operating costs of the individual pension system in Turkey have one of the highest rates in the world at 2.3 per cent. It is below 0.5 per cent in all developed countries and developing countries. Naturally, this brings down the benefits of individual pensions. What measures do you intend to take in this regard? My second question is: In all literature studies, it is known that the low employment rates and the low employment rates in women have reduced the savings of households and thus the private savings. On the other hand, Mr. Prime Minister, you know, these three children's policies came up from behind, and then the anti-life policy came up. Naturally, if we follow the Prime Minister's lead, the women will withdraw more and more from the labour market. On the one hand, you want to increase individual pension, encourage, and on the other hand, these policies...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0065par0500	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0066par0501	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we've spoken before, and I've expressed my concerns about the mining activity at Artvin Cerattepe, and I told you by whom would this tender be taken. You said I was wrong on the basis of another firm's purchase. In the coming days, we're all going to observe which firm this was bought by. I suggested that this contract was a package deal. I would like to point out that on the 19th, there is a meeting of the CED in Artvin. Once again, all of Artvin's NGOs, all of the political parties, are united, and Artvin is not going to mine that mine. I'd like to bring the situation to your attention. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0067par0506	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0068par0507	Mr. President, dear friends, I'd like to begin by saying thank you in advance to my friends who ask questions and advise. Of course, a question was asked about how to cut people who wanted to leave the retirement company system. Fund management costs are being cut through savings directed to pension companies' investments, and no cuts are being made by participants who want to leave. Only on the way out, there's a blockage cut on the return. It was asked, "How much is the price to pay for individual retirement?" The system is expected to generate a state contribution cost of around $700m in the first year. A question was asked, "What will the public contribution system be paid by the participants who have paid as much as the regular wage? " If the minimum wage is paid, a state contribution of up to 1/4 will be paid to the individual pension account within the individual state contribution system of the attendee. Another question was, how much will the government pay for a system in the individual pension system? A similar question. The cost of a thousandths of national income is expected, but according to the growth figures, it can also vary. There were some questions about the energy sector. Our fellow MP asked when we would stop implementing the HESEs near 2,000. We don't intend to end these practices, dear friends. Of course, the part about fitness for CED is extremely important. We will, of course, continue our interest in the environment and green and the environment in the energy sector in a positive way. We need to make these investments with respect to the environment. If the topic of today's meeting was the import of natural gas, if it had been the import of petrol, I would have known of your commitments to support the HES. And I was sure of it. So we need to look at the whole of Turkey. We're supposed to be able to use local resources, we're supposed to be able to use renewable resources. Today, in the morning, there was a coal investment in Lakebaş, which we made with the Technoken at Gazi University. We're trying to get gas out of this coal. We have a study called synthetic gas, called methane gases, that we run with the Americans. Now, we're trying to develop practices in favor of the environment in low-calorie, time-to-time spectrums that are incompatible with environmental conditions. We've opened them to the public, and hopefully, we're trying to turn the pilot facilities into commercial facilities. I'm saying the same thing for the HES. That's true for Igdir. Despite our citizens there, of course, despite our people, we do not perform any procedures, any procedures. Any project, whether it's a river-type power plant or a reservoir, has to do with each one of them, it has to do with water, it has to do with energy. The proportion of these is predetermined, and in the State Water Jobs...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0069par0515	Madam Secretary, please make your controls, he can't water the citizen's field.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0068par0516	Their rate in State Water Affairs has been single-handedly determined. If there are issues that we need to consider about our citizens' water contribution, the State Water Affairs, the Department of Water and Forestry operates them. I got my note in particular in these two projects concerning Iğdır, Karakurt HES. I got my note in the projects at HES, and in Kazman, and I'm going to pass them on to my friends. Since our Water and Forestry Ministry is running the water until they become power generators, I'm going to say this in the interest of State Water Affairs, and I'm also going to pass it on to Mr. Secretary. Dear friends, we have to agree once that if we don't use our local resources, if we care about our import resources, it's much easier to make this Ministry of Energy, you drink your tea, you go to the head of the phone, you order the gas, and you come and you use it, and you get the numbers that give the current deficit a negative contribution that we don't want. What is our purpose? It's the ability to produce all of this from the resources of the country. Now, agriculture is the wealth of this country, nature is the wealth of this country, culture is the wealth of this country, tourism is the wealth of this country, but if you'll allow it, the wealth of this country is also the wealth of this country. We should be able to use every single one of our local resources. Now, they object to the fact that coal is damaging the environment. All the developing countries used coal until they completed their development. Go and see that there is a coal plant gushing out in the Ruhr basin in the heart of Germany. Why is it that when they do it, it's okay, but when we do it, it's okay? There's 14 plants on a river, there's a country that's developed, why is it that their fish is okay, and their agriculture is okay with us? Look, there's the Loire River, it's been in France for a thousand kilometers, it's been in the world's heritage, it's got seven nuclear power plants on it, but it's being fished, it's being farmed, it's exported.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0070par0520	There's control, we don't have control. He cuts the water off as he pleases.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0068par0521	Dear friends, I agree with that view, I agree with your opinion. Of course we have to control it, it's not secular, it's not like everyone's going to do what they want. Yes, the public is also in charge of their control duties, and all our friends are continuing their duties with regard to this audit. When asked to provide an austerity plan for system pension, it is not an individual pension system. These kinds of systems, called the specified contribution, have also been gaining weight abroad in recent years. Finally, the system continues, not on necessity, but on voluntary basis. The funds in the individual pension system are being drawn to the private sector, some to the private sector. The claim has been made. Of course, the combined, especially related to the pension system, the funds related to the individual pension system are stored in accounts for the participants in Takasbank. In this scope, the funds in the funds are stored as individuals' assets. In no way are the funds included in the corporate balance sheet, companies are channelling investments and mediating management of the account. So even though the company is bankrupt, the funds are secured. Another issue is that the individual pension system is in short supply. Is this being taken care of? With the legislation of this bill, secondary legislation on cuts will also be considered and restructured. Our friends have declared that the blackout bases will be further off. Regarding the question of Mr. Shandır, are the constructions of these dwellings especially returned to banker's disasters? Our Minister of Environment is here, and he will be present in the next session, giving more details. Specially related to precedents in housing projects, of course, they will contribute substantially to the design of that city, its architecture. I'm supplying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit01spe0071par0527	Thank you. The talks on chapter three are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the third section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are two motions in Article 51, and another motion has arrived. Now, since there's a new motion coming in, it needs to be duplicated, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit02spe0071par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 119th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 271. The Commission and the Government are here. Congressmans, there are three motions on Article 51. I'm going to read these proposals in the same context and then I'm going to process them together. If they demand it, I'll make a separate commitment to the motion holders or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: The framework of the current Bill 271 is 51. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bill. Free Special Müslim Yellow Kazım Kurt Suleiman Çelebi Musa Pine Salih Firat Erol Dora Iron Steel A. Levent Corporate Mehmet Günal Mehmet Şandir Kemalettin Yılmaz Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit02spe0072par0023	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit02spe0071par0024	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit02spe0073par0025	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit02spe0071par0026	Mr. Corporate, please.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit02spe0074par0027	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, dear people, I salute you all. Yes, the government is relentless. That's what class domination looks like. Together with this law, there is now a new move in liberalisation and capital aggression with some regulations in pension and tax regulations, so once again there is continued to be further enrichment of labour and sweat theft, capital groups, pension rights are removed from social security and state security, leaving a commercial area, the market's processing area. Public pension is replaced by a private pension system. The motive is diversification of funding sources. So, what's it gonna be? It'll be in labor savings. A new financial tool and system for entrepreneurs -- I mean, the capital class -- who are having trouble accessing the Finnsman -- is called effective incentives by the direct state contribution of participants for better operating. So, to encourage individual retirement, the government will pay for some of its own vault, especially some of its treasure source. We'll see that incentive on life and health insurance. The lawmakers, whose problem is all funding insurance companies, are not moving their fingers at the fact that millions of workers are still uninsured. According to the understanding of today's capital state and government, retirement is a huge burden and humpback; it is their greatest goal to get rid of pensions, if not at all, to reduce them. Now, they embrace it by saying "completion," but they are increasingly eager to convert the main element of the system into the main system. As always, the idea is that the fathers, the place where they're going, once again, is the United States of America, but let's see where the desire to be this little America will break out. In front of all of us, where he's struggling with a crisis. In America, millions of pensioners live in the open, hungry, and on the street. Dear lawmakers, the worker's pension premiums are earmarked to the capital's order by this bill and by the state's hands. The capital, who always calls me me, will not be satisfied. Also brought into this law, the ministers who announced that the Public Contraction Act would perpetuate exemptions, exceptions, and the reports of all the laws ever seen in rent workers, irregularities, non-organisation, cheap labor, strike bans and the continuation of this strike ban. Labor, misogynism and the love of the rich class have come to this point, and now, again, in the Minister's mouth, we're all watching and seeing that his severance is in preparation for removal. Dear people, my word to you in particular. A game is being played that along with this law is a guaranteed fund against the debt of the state; the account is to extend the debt, to cover the debt deficit. If you say who will provide it, then of course, the working class and workers as usual, but the worker's money, or rather, has no say in its contribution. By negotiating between private insurance companies and the state, this savings and contribution will become a gain by their hands, but the employee who retires to individual retirement will lose. The result is destruction; the pension savings of the worker, the savings of his future dream, will melt away within the processing volume of the stock market and in the environment of speculation, and will be left at his mercy. Our people, the workers should know that it's not temporary, that as long as this settles, public retirement will be out of commission and history, as they want to do in severance pay. Let's not come to this privatisation game, let's defend our right to retirement, that's what our people need to know, and that's what we say to them. It's the same privatisation move to apply VAT to the public rent of education and health facilities brought into this law. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let's not give it away. I say, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit02spe0075par0035	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit02spe0076par0038	Thank you, Mr. President, and thank you, friends. Mehmet Günal won't get tired, don't worry, we're just getting started. Let's see how long you guys last. Dear friends, we're from those who stop until four. I don't know, some of my friends seem a little more energetic now that they're new. We'll see how long they last today. Dear friends, in these and the following articles, we were actually considering not making any motions outside of a few of our motions. We stuck to it yesterday. But we're getting to a point where I don't care too much about a living here, we did it, we did it. There's logic. Here, the first thing we learned in the university was that in constitutional law, we had teachers teaching us about separation of powers; that the law, the executive and the judges were independent, separate. Now, I mean, you haven't given up on the meaning of living. We've done it all with the KHK over the last year, and now we're trying to fix all of them. We've already been deputized. We use partial powers here in the Commission. I just told you. We set up a subcommittee, we invite all the friends, then we come back, sir, and we have to finish this. Now, on Tuesday, 15. Do you have to compress a law of three chapters and 73 articles according to the Minister's schedule, friends, on a day that starts at 00? Dear group vice presidents, so put it another day, dear, if Mr. Secretary has a job. It's not over till 4:30 in the morning. We have a certain understanding under normal circumstances, but it doesn't stop. Then what do we do? Our next item, except for two, will all be read out for our long reason. Why? I'll tell you why. Here, because of the pressure you put on the opposition, you turn off the TV at 7:00 p.m. We're moving on to the real law here, after some group discussion of proposals. Look, all the stuff we put in there, the law talks, they start after the TV's off. So, what happened to what we said, what we argued about? You're not interested, but at least the public needs to know what's being discussed, what's being discussed. Now, we're looking, we're looking at the same kind of debate, so let's finish this. The group's deputy presidents are asking, OK. We're saying, OK. We're looking at something else, and then we're looking at something else. So the reason for the following motions is our main opposition to the bill. We will ensure that this is public knowledge, that the pressure on the opposition can be broken, and that our views can be made public. I'm not gonna talk about it anymore. I wanted to share this with you and our people in the first place. Dear friends, consider these suggestions. Look, we've passed very difficult laws from this Commission -- we have friends from the last semester -- and many of them came in such a hurry. The Plan and Budget Commission has returned to the general administration of the laws. We're not getting the right bill. The bill isn't a bill, it's a lot of offers. It doesn't go through the filter. He's not going to the agencies. So we're changing what we're doing here as quickly as we can, and we're changing what we're able to do, depending on your understanding of the moment. And then we say something here, at least we bring in suggestions to complete what's missing, and we give them proposals, and in part, we're not considered except for those who won't touch so much zülfüyüyü. It's not just the motion. When you discussed this with the National Movement Party, we always said we were in the interest of the Turkish nation. We don't have a party, we have a country, we have a party, then we have an understanding that it's me. The country and the nation come first. Come, look, our declaration was from Turkey, which was raised towards 2023, and we're happy that you've adopted it even though it's an imitation. I've been telling you for days that we should take these structural measures so that Turkey can become the leading country in 2023. Now, I see the laws you wish to discuss in June. Now, there's a lot of trouble waiting. Why don't you bring them? There's no agenda, there's a number, there's people waiting. Let's take a quick look at the emergency ones, bring them in, present them to us in advance, and we'll tell them what they need to go out with, even if they're incomplete, and we'll offer them where they need to be completed, but if you don't listen and take them out again, bring them up. As I just said in the tourism framework law, we've been asking for years, unfortunately, it hasn't. Now, you have to consider those programs, too, these lifetimes. Now there's no Undersecretary. Mr. Secretary says he has a meeting. Then I ask: Why are you putting it on Tuesday? Let them come in, put them in, take them out the week after; they've already waited long enough to wait. Did he wait on the subcommittee and then after? He waited. So I say again: The National Movement Party is always ready to support you in the time when we've come to terms with the interests of the nation and the country.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit02spe0077par0049	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Mr. Pine, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit02spe0078par0052	Mr. President, thank you very much. We couldn't get our talks done in five minutes. The Minister is responding to us, he says... of course it's not relevant. Mr. Ali Babacan is supposed to be here, but we're dealing with our Minister of Energy. Of course, he responds to us, whether he wants to or not, with the answers given by his ministry officials. Now, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to say it one more time here. In Turkey, the government has limited and limited its support for both the SEC and the BUG-KUR/ and the Retirement Chest over the past decade, stemming from the problems of social security institutions. Therefore, the Social Insurance Institution, established by workers, workers, and workers, has survived for years, even though the state has no contribution. But when inflation was too high, people invested their personal wealth, their money, their resources in banks by 120 per cent, social insurance was given resources by 10 per cent, 20 per cent, as cheap loans to capital by 30 per cent, and consciously, systematically, Social Security institution, the SEC was destroyed, and then merged into the name of the Social Security Agency. Now, in this individual retirement, once again, I say that Mr. Ali Babacan, 45 years old, will pay a bonus by the age of fifty-six, and when he retires, he will receive his money at once or twice. Now, individual pension companies say that I have to calculate very well the premiums that I have to pay by the time I'm sixty-seven years old, and I need to know how much I'm going to pay from month to month. But if this citizen lives after sixty-seven years of age, I'll lose, I'll go bankrupt, I'll go bankrupt. In Turkey, where the average age is sixty-seven, is there a chance that a person will live to be ninety-five years old, friends, is that possible? But the individual pension companies are now at the door of the treasure and they say: "Let the retirement age be raised up to 95." Because, if this citizen lives after the age of sixty-seven, if he lives on, I can't pay him a pension, I'll sink. And that's why there's a big problem. So we say that this individual retirement was applied in America, Chile, Argentina, South America, and it went bankrupt, it went bankrupt. Now you're saying that there's a guarantee. See, in the United States of America, the money that was invested in Enron, the largest company in the United States in the 2000s, was 80 lira a day, friends, 80 lira bonds, but because of the economic troubles, the crisis, all retirement systems went down to 0.20 cents a night, and all their funds went down. What happened? It's on top of the government. In our country, how banks went down, bankers went down, funds went down; the cost went down on the citizens; we paid for it, we paid for it as citizens; workers paid for it, workers paid for it; and now, again, Turkey is being brought back to chaos with the individual retirement system. We're making a note of history here, and we say: "Take your precautions before the car collapses. This is wrong, it's wrong." He couldn't tell us here whether or not it belonged to individual retirement, including Mr. Secretary. The Black Sea Eregli, which our Minister of Energy recently attended, has the Ark of the Amele Union in Zonguldak. Friends founded in the 1920s. The employer also gives a 1% share to the labour union chest, which has been going on since the 1920s. The proposal to the Plan Budget Commission the past two weeks has been reduced to 5,000,000. Every day, the rights that we have earned, the rights that workers, the workers, the poor, are being taken from them and taken away. Now, in the coming days, the national employment package will arrive, with the national employment package removed, severance, flexible work form, regional minimum wage will be brought in, and the workers will be stripped of their rights and destroyed for centuries. Every time you take the stand, since Turkey is one of the world's 16 largest economies, one of the 6th economies of Europe, then let's do the principle law of 10 million pensioners in a proper, beautiful and right manner and let's figure out a pension that retirees will continue their human lives. But what did you do? You brought it in, you made a correction because of the miscalculation in the wages of 1,800,000 pensioners from just 10 million pensioners. Is that okay? There's a law on attitude? No, it didn't. But we've got 10 million pensioners, and they're waiting in Congress again. Let's bring it in, let's figure out a human pension for 10 million pensioners, let's give up this individual pension. I salute you all, friends.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit02spe0079par0059	Thank you, Mr. Pine. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 51st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions over Article 52. I'm going to read these proposals in the same context and then I'm going to process them together. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: The framework of the current Law Bill 271 is 52. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Kazim Kurt Free Müslim Sarı İdris Yıldız Gürkut Acar Musa Pine Mehmet Günal Mehmet Şandir Alim Ik Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit02spe0080par0078	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit02spe0079par0079	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit02spe0081par0080	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit02spe0082par0081	Motive.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit02spe0079par0082	Do you mind if I get Mr. Pine to talk, and then I'll have him read the reason, Mr. Şandir? Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit02spe0083par0084	Mr. President, thank you very much. Once again, we emphasize and say that our job as opposition party is to tell you the truth, to show you the right way, but you insist on doing wrong, you want to take from the poor to the rich, you want to take from the poor, you want to transfer it from the rich, and you want to make Istanbul a financial center, and you want to put the sweats of workers, workers, workers, workers, people, as a source to some people. That's your choice. We say it's wrong, and you'll see a major crisis in the next ten years. I don't wish it, we don't want it, we don't want it, but the obvious village doesn't need guidance, folks. There will be such a crisis, and therefore, we consider doing this warning mission as a historic mission, and once again we would like to emphasize: Stop this error, please, as the opposition party, the motions that we have made, we do not agree there. Don't refuse to say, "We don't agree." And we're bringing you these ideas and suggestions to help you with the government, which we certainly know and think about. Look, guys, it was June 12th yesterday, and it's been a year since we were elected. Even though it's been a year, eight of our fellow lawmakers are under arrest. Is that correct? It's not. Now that those people who were elected by the will of the people have taken their seats, approved by the Supreme Election Board, this is where they should be, and they should be here, unfortunately, there are eight of our fellow MPs. Now, the Parliament Speaker has done some work on this issue, the latest AKP Group has done work on it, and has moved to AKP headquarters while the issue should be the work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Finally -- we read about it in the papers -- Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Mahir, said: "We did a poll." As a result of the public opinion study, we were told not to get involved, and this is not our job. Look, my friends, they asked the mathematician, they said, "What's 2x2 make?" They asked the statistician, and they said, "What is 2x2?" He said, "It's between 3 and 5. They asked the public opinion researcher, and they said, "What does 2x2 make?" He said, "What do you want?" He said, "What do you want?" I mean, you print the money, you can get the results you want, you can get the results you want, but it's not right, my friends, that leaving the fate of the elected lawmakers to a public research firm has nothing to do with reason or conscience or political tradition. You need to get out of this with violence, and in order for eight of our fellow lawmakers to do their legislature here, we need to put all of us together and make sure that our friends are here. Turkish Airlines... you brought in a bag of laws last week, overnight. Here, working in Turkish Airlines, you have imposed on workers 18 months of collective contract talks within one night with a proposal for a strike ban. People want to use their constitutional rights, so if we, as lawmakers, have some rights, and we respond to these rights when they're handed over, and we're against them, then it's not possible for our fellow workers here to remain silent about the loss of their constitutional rights. Turkish-HIS President, Turkish-HIS administration can remain silent, may be AKP's backyard, but workers have left a day's work to take care of their work, their food, their future. As a result, 305 workers were fired and their struggle continues. Today the Turkish Airways administration has gathered, the Ataturk Airport Security Commission has met and has made a decision to break the resistance of our fellow workers, saying: "No one can gather here." According to 2911, people have the right to gather there, they have the right to stay there, but specifically the Airport Security Commission is gathering and banning the presence of our workers. Maybe we'll have a police intervention there in a little while. When you were going to the referendum, did you say Turkey would be a freer country, a more modern country, a more modern country, Turkey would be talking? Every day you bring in more bans, you take away more resources and resources, my friends. Today on Yüksel Street, people fighting for free education are getting pepper sprayed right now and there, while students are fighting for free education, police are attacking them and taking them into custody. Now, folks, where you come from in ten years, there's not much more than pepper spray, cost of life, unemployment. We want to highlight that too, but every time you come here, we get 49 percent of the vote, everyone will pledge unconditionally to us... lt's like in German fascism, as Hitler's advisor Goebbels said, no matter what the numbers say, we are masters of the state, that's what we say... that's not true, my friends. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit02spe0084par0097	Thank you, Mr. Pine. The general reason for the Bill of Law is that the bill includes strengthening the Istanbul Financial Centre, reducing the austerity deficit, diversifying financial resources, but mainly developing the insurance and individual pension system. However, the insurance industry's expectations were not fully met within the bill. The new individual pension arrangement, brought with the Bill of Law, gives up tax cuts, and moves on to state contributions. In the current arrangement, those who put bonuses into the individual pension system may be able to download it from the income tax matrix. If a person's income is covered by a 15% income tax, he can reduce 15 per cent of the premium he has invested, and if he is in a 35 per cent tax slice, he can reduce 35 per cent of the bonus. The application of state contributions is 25 per cent. The new arrangement provides an advantage for the sub-income group, providing a disadvantage for the upper income group. In the current arrangement, however, the person will receive a tax reduction immediately, while the person will receive a state contribution only when he retires. The current application pays a stoppage of 25 per cent of the total bonus amount when a person retires or leaves the system after applying for the exception of the income tax. In the new system, the person does not qualify for state contribution without retiring, nor does he benefit from 25 per cent of the exception. In the new system, the person will be entitled to 15 per cent of the state contribution by 3 years, 60 per cent by 10 years, 100 per cent by retiring. So when a person pays a ten-year bonus in the new system and leaves, he will not be able to benefit from 1-IRS exception, 2-percent income tax exception, 40 per cent of the 3-state contribution. The new system includes regulations in favour of insurance companies, not more people. As the government returns 60 per cent of its contribution to the person's name, 40 per cent are left to the companies. These regulations encourage insurance companies, not individual pension and social security. Turkey has a savings deficit that is too large to be closed only by the incentive of the individual pension system. Savings have dropped to 12 per cent of GDP, and individual pension alone is not enough to reduce the savings deficit. Savings is a function of income. It is not possible to increase savings enough without increasing income. The bill contains certain necessary measures, but they are not sufficient to achieve the goals set out for the cause. The bill also includes special arrangements for methods such as do-work and do-orala-development, as well as an exception to the Public Relations Act. However, it is not right to be based solely on lowering debt costs due to the exception of VAT. It is also understood that investments thought to be made under laws 3996 and 3359 under the NGO No. 652; public investment project stocks and annual programmes; no assessment of investment costs, budget loads and the expansion of debt obligations; in other words, the impact analysis is not being done in accordance with legislation on drafting legislation. On the other hand, changes to the development of our country's insurance business and to the changes that consumers proposed in the 5684 Insurance Act to increase the sense of trust in the sector, to ensure experts' economic independence towards insurance companies, and to ensure that they can perform their duties objectively and independently. During subcommittee talks, these demands have been ignored, even though representatives of sector representatives and representatives of the TOBB Insurance Enforcement Committee have been deposed to be able to reach a solution to the upper commission. In particular, the auto accident major did not arrange for insurance experts to be randomly appointed through the software system according to specific criteria. For reasons revealed above, the item must be removed from the draft text. The motions...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit02spe0085par0109	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit02spe0084par0110	Okay, I'll call you. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit03spe0084par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 119th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in the vote of the two motions issued on Article 52 of the Law Bill 271. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who don't accept... there's enough to decide, it's not accepted. We will continue the talks of Bill 271. The Commission and the Government are here. I submit the 52nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 53 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. As they know, the proposed bill or proposal is the fourth clause of Article 87 of the Civil Code, which does not exist in the commission text of the law, but demands to be changed a clause that is very closely related to the bill or proposal, and will be held as a new clause on the proposals which the commission has attended. Therefore, I'll have the motion read and ask the commission. If the Commission joins the motion with its 21 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause, and if the commission simply disagrees, I will remove the motion from the process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with individual pension savings and investment system law number 271, there are some laws and laws under which amendments should be made to the Law bill 53. We propose and provide that the following matter be added after the matter is identified in this direction. Oktay Vural Mehmet Şandir Alim Iş Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Erkan Akçay ▪ Article 54: 22 of Insurance Law 5684. The following joke is added as the twentyth joke. In insurance majors identified as undersecretary, the insurance expert is appointed as a coincidence in electronics, as well as the training of the insurance expert, which will be determined by insurance providers or insurance providers, or by people who benefit from the insurance agreement without the provisions of the 19th and 20th joke. In this case, the appropriation fee will be paid by the insurance adjuster, according to a fee schedule set by the Undersecretary, with the opinion of the Executive Committee and the Union. Mr. Commission, do you generally agree with this motion?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit03spe0086par0022	We can't participate just because we don't have a majority.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit03spe0087par0023	He's not inviting me, Mr. President. Maybe he'll come to the vote.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit03spe0084par0024	Work it out amongst yourselves. I certainly don't get involved in debate between any group today and in any of the names of happiness, pollen, anything.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit03spe0087par0026	That's what the office requires, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit03spe0084par0027	No, I'm not interfering with any of it, and I'm not even gonna try to reconcile it, according to him. Since Mr. Commission disagrees, I'm dismissing the motion. There's a motion in Article 54, I'll read it and process it: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey In accordance with individual pension savings and investment system law 271 rankings, there are some laws and laws under which amendments should be made in accordance with the Article 54 of the Law. We propose and propose that the clause (23) be changed in the following way. Mehmet Günal Oktay Vural Mehmet Şandir Erkan Akçay Alim Light Emin Haluk Ayhan 23) In accordance with the Union's decision and measures on the basis of this clause, administrative fines are imposed by the Governing Body for members who have not been fully complying with the decision and measures, from five thousand Turkish liras to 20,000 Turkish liras. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit03spe0088par0038	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit03spe0084par0039	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit03spe0089par0040	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit03spe0084par0041	Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit03spe0090par0042	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, in the joke text we've just asked to add, it was a request from the Turkish Chambers and Stock Exchanges Association's Insurance Executive Committee and its insurance experts -- sector representatives. Mr. President, there's too much noise. This was a request from the industry, and we met at the subcommittee upstairs, and there was a search for a compromise here, but our bureaucrat friends told us that there was a more radical bill on insurance, where it would be resolved. They had good reason here, your friends, because experts need to be neutral and independent so they can maintain the rights of the insured. For him, it's actually a motion to consider. Of course, at the same time, they're also willing to allow the experts to be randomly assigned from a pool after they've been delivered to a standard... Mr. President, there's a lot of noise, and I don't even understand what I'm saying, but I think my friends are here for the roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit03spe0091par0047	Congressmans, it would be nice if we could keep the peace. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit03spe0090par0049	Now, dear friends, this was a suggestion that would make all sides of the pool unscathed -- the insured -- the insurer, the insurer, and the experts -- comfortable, because their standards would be set and randomly appointed from the pool. Unfortunately, you didn't agree to that. And he just said, "Our friends, if there's something nice, more radical to be done..." But I'm going to remind you. I've shown you in the past few weeks, two rows from here. Our dear friends looked at it, and so were the relevant members of the group, Mr. Secretary, but we had friends from the Commission. On the one hand, you put the same sentence in the fifth article of the law on financial subsidiary, leasing, factoring, financing companies, which we discussed in the Commission, the same as the 4th Amendment in which you banned the famous Airlines strike. And when I asked about him, my friend, the Minister and the Commissioner, he said, "Well, this may not be the term of the financial rental law. Let's put this in for him, he'll already be out of effect when we get out. How many days? If we take it out now, it'll be for a month." There will be no financial rentals. They say, "The other one has passed." So, when's your insurance bill due? On the 15th of the month of the dead end. So, will this system continue to work like this? He will. So, please, let's take a look at these, and if he's coming back, if there's anything missing, you can finish it there. But this is the basis of insurance, the appointment of experts, the fact that the insurance and the company are not victims, the quality of the standardization of experts. Okay, so then you take out their education, their regulations, all of them, you get them to those standards, but at least we've already made this motion that we start setting up the system, and it's not accepted. And in our next motion, we propose that the $50,000 fine be reduced to $20,000, because there have been a lot of fines. In order to be parallel to other sectors, we have a demand to be parallel to other media institutions and to other financial institutions; I hope you'll consider it, I offer respects.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit03spe0092par0052	Thank you, Mr. Günal. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit Article 54 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. There's a motion in Article 55 that I'm having read and processed. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey In accordance with the 271 rankings held by individual pensions and investment system law and the draft of the Laws Against Some Laws and Laws Acts, İstanbul MP Aydın Agha Ayayadın's proposal for amendments to the 193 IRS Tax Act; Kayseri MP Ahmet Ökzazkaya and 5 MPs; 5 MPs to the amendment of the Law Orders of Laws and Laws on Laws 55. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Günal Nevzat Korkmaz Alim Ilk Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit03spe0093par0064	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit03spe0092par0065	Government? We can't participate.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit03spe0094par0067	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit03spe0092par0068	Read the reason. The general reason for the Bill of Law is that the bill includes strengthening the Istanbul Financial Centre, reducing the austerity deficit, diversifying financial resources, but mainly developing the insurance and individual pension system. However, the insurance industry's expectations were not fully met within the bill. The new individual pension arrangement, brought with the Bill of Law, gives up tax cuts, and moves on to state contributions. In the current arrangement, those who put bonuses into the individual pension system may be able to download it from the income tax matrix. If a person's income is covered by a 15% income tax, he can reduce 15 per cent of the premium he has invested, and if he is in a 35 per cent tax slice, he can reduce 35 per cent of the bonus. The application of state contributions is 25 per cent. The new arrangement provides an advantage for the sub-income group, providing a disadvantage for the upper income group. However, in the current arrangement, the person will receive the government contribution only when he retires. The current application pays a stoppage of 25 per cent of the total bonus amount when a person retires or leaves the system after applying for the exception of the income tax. In the new system, the person does not qualify for state contribution without retiring, nor does he benefit from 25 per cent of the exception. In the new system, the person will be entitled to 15 per cent of the state contribution by 3 years, 60 per cent by 10 years, 100 per cent by retiring. So when a person pays 10 years in the new system and leaves, he will not be able to benefit from a 40 per cent share of the government's contribution -- the exception of a 25 per cent income tax on income tax on 2-profits. The new system includes regulations in favour of insurance companies, not more people. As the government returns 60 per cent of its contribution to the person's name, 40 per cent are left to the companies. These regulations encourage insurance companies, not individual pension and social security. Turkey has a savings deficit that is too large to be closed only by the incentive of the individual pension system. Savings have dropped to 12 per cent of GDP, and individual pension alone is not enough to reduce the savings deficit. Savings is a function of income. It is not possible to increase savings enough without increasing income. The bill contains certain necessary measures, but they are not sufficient to achieve the goals set out for the cause. The bill also includes special arrangements for methods such as do-work and do-orala-development, as well as an exception to the Public Relations Act. However, it is not right to be based solely on lowering debt costs due to the exception of VAT. It is also understood that investments thought to be made under laws 3996 and 3359 under the NGO No. 652; public investment project stocks and annual programmes; no assessment of investment costs, budget loads and the expansion of debt obligations; in other words, the impact analysis is not being done in accordance with legislation on drafting legislation. On the other hand, changes to the development of our country's insurance business and to the changes that consumers proposed in the 5684 Insurance Act to increase the sense of trust in the sector, to ensure experts' economic independence towards insurance companies, and to ensure that they can perform their duties objectively and independently. During subcommittee talks, these demands have been ignored, even though representatives of sector representatives and representatives of the TOBB Insurance Enforcement Committee have been deposed and will have a solution to the upper commission. In particular, the auto accident major did not arrange for insurance experts to be randomly appointed through the software system according to specific criteria. For reasons revealed above, the item must be removed from the draft text.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit03spe0095par0078	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit03spe0092par0079	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0092par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 119th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in the vote of Mr Mehmet Günal and his friends' motion to vote on Article 55 of the Law Bill 271. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. There's enough to make a decision. We will continue the talks of Bill 271. The commission is here. The government is here. I submit the 55th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 56 that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Of İstanbul MP Aydın Agha Ayayydın, who has been appointed to make changes in Articles of the Law and Law Act, and of the Constitution of the Law and of the Law and of the Laws and of the Law and of the Law and of the Law and of the Law and of the 5 MPs who have been appointed to make changes in the Articles of Taxes of IRS 193; of the Kayseri MP Ahmet Ökzazkaya and of the 5 MPs; and of the Law and 5 MPs who have been appointed to make changes in accordance with the Law and Law. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Günal Alim İk Kemalettin Yilmaz Is the commission in?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0096par0017	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0092par0018	Does the government agree? - We don't agree. Mr. Günal...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0097par0021	Read the reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0092par0022	Read the reason. The general reason for the Bill of Law is that the bill includes strengthening the Istanbul Financial Centre, reducing the austerity deficit, diversifying financial resources, but mainly developing the insurance and individual pension system. However, the insurance industry's expectations were not fully met within the bill. The new individual pension arrangement, brought with the Bill of Law, gives up tax cuts, and moves on to state contributions. In the current arrangement, those who put bonuses into the individual pension system may be able to download it from the income tax matrix. If a person's income is covered by a 15% income tax, he can reduce 15 per cent of the premium he has invested, and if he is in a 35 per cent tax slice, he can reduce 35 per cent of the bonus. The application of state contributions is 25 per cent. The new arrangement provides an advantage for the sub-income group, providing a disadvantage for the upper income group. In the current arrangement, however, the person will receive a tax reduction immediately, while the person will receive a state contribution only when he retires. The current application pays a stoppage of 25 per cent of the total bonus amount when a person retires or leaves the system after applying for the exception of the income tax. In the new system, the person does not qualify for state contribution without retiring, nor does he benefit from 25 per cent of the exception. In the new system, the person will be entitled to 15 per cent of the state contribution by 3 years, 60 per cent by 10 years, 100 per cent by retiring. So when a person pays a ten-year bonus in the new system and leaves, he will not be able to benefit from 1-IRS exception, 2-percent income tax exception, 40 per cent of the 3-state contribution. The new system includes regulations in favour of insurance companies, not more people. As the government returns 60 per cent of its contribution to the person's name, 40 per cent are left to the companies. These regulations encourage insurance companies, not individual pension and social security. Turkey has a savings deficit that is too large to be closed only by the incentive of the individual pension system. Savings have dropped to 12 per cent of GDP, and the incentive for individual pension alone is not enough to reduce the savings deficit. Savings is a function of income. It is not possible to increase savings enough without increasing income. The bill contains certain necessary measures, but they are not sufficient to achieve the goals set out for the cause. The bill also includes special arrangements for methods such as do-work and do-orala-development, as well as an exception to the Public Relations Act. However, it is not right to be based solely on lowering debt costs due to the exception of VAT. It is also understood that investments thought to be made under laws 3996 and 3359 under the NGO No. 652; public investment project stocks and annual programmes; no assessment of investment costs, budget loads and the expansion of debt obligations; in other words, the impact analysis is not being done in accordance with legislation on drafting legislation. On the other hand, changes to the development of our country's insurance business and to the changes that consumers proposed in the 5684 Insurance Act to increase the sense of trust in the sector, to ensure experts' economic independence towards insurance companies, and to ensure that they can perform their duties objectively and independently. During subcommittee talks, these demands have been ignored, even though representatives of sector representatives and representatives of the TOBB Insurance Enforcement Committee have been deposed to be able to reach a solution to the upper commission. In particular, the auto accident major did not arrange for insurance experts to be randomly appointed through the software system according to specific criteria. For reasons revealed above, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 57 that I read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Of İstanbul MP Aydın Agha Ayayydın, who has been appointed to make changes in Articles of the Law and Laws Act, and of the Laws and Laws Act 271, the Law Proposal for Amendments in the Law of the IRS Tax of 193; Kayseri MP Ahmet Ökzütkaya and 5 MPs; 5 MPs who have been appointed to make amendments in the Law and Laws Act 57. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Günal Alim İk Kemalettin Yilmaz Is the commission in?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0098par0042	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0092par0043	Does the government agree? We don't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0099par0045	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0092par0046	Motive... The general reason for the Bill of Law is that the bill includes strengthening the Istanbul Financial Centre, reducing the austerity deficit, diversifying financial resources, but mainly developing the insurance and individual pension system. However, the insurance industry's expectations were not fully met within the bill. The new individual pension arrangement, brought with the Bill of Law, gives up tax cuts, and moves on to state contributions. In the current arrangement, those who put bonuses into the individual pension system may be able to download it from the income tax matrix. If a person's income is covered by 15 per cent income tax, he can reduce 15 per cent of the premium he has invested, and if he is on 35 per cent tax, he can reduce 35 per cent of the premium. The application of state contributions is 25 per cent. The new arrangement provides an advantage for the sub-income group, providing a disadvantage for the upper income group. In the current arrangement, however, the person will receive a tax reduction immediately, while the person will receive a state contribution only when he retires. The current application pays a stoppage of 25 per cent of the total bonus amount when a person retires or leaves the system after applying for the exception of the income tax. In the new system, the person does not qualify for state contribution without retiring, nor does he benefit from 25 per cent of the exception. In the new system, the person will be entitled to 15 per cent of the state contribution by 3 years, 60 per cent by 10 years, 100 per cent by retiring. So when a person pays a 10-year bonus in the new system, he will not benefit from the 1-income tax exception, 2-25 per cent income tax exception, and 40 per cent of the 3-state contribution share. The new system includes regulations in favour of insurance companies, not more people. As the government returns 60 per cent of its contribution to the person's name, 40 per cent are left to the companies. These regulations encourage insurance companies, not individual pension and social security. Turkey has a savings deficit that is too large to be closed only by the incentive of the individual pension system. Savings have dropped to 12 per cent of GDP, and individual pension alone is not enough to reduce the savings deficit. Savings is a function of income. It is not possible to increase savings enough without increasing income. The bill contains certain necessary measures, but they are not sufficient to achieve the goals set out for the cause. The bill also includes special arrangements for methods such as do-work and do-orala-development, as well as an exception to the Public Relations Act. However, it is not right to be based solely on lowering debt costs due to the exception of VAT. It is also understood that investments thought to be made under laws 3996 and 3359 under the NGO No. 652; public investment project stocks and annual programmes; no assessment of investment costs, budget loads and the expansion of debt obligations; in other words, the impact analysis is not being done in accordance with legislation on drafting legislation. On the other hand, changes to the development of our country's insurance business and to the changes that consumers proposed in the 5684 Insurance Act to increase the sense of trust in the sector, to ensure experts' economic independence towards insurance companies, and to ensure that they can perform their duties objectively and independently. During subcommittee talks, these demands have been ignored, even though representatives of sector representatives and representatives of the TOBB Insurance Enforcement Committee have been deposed to be able to reach a solution to the upper commission. In particular, the auto accident major did not arrange for insurance experts to be randomly appointed through the software system according to specific criteria. For reasons revealed above, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 58 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Of İstanbul MP Aydın Agha Ayayydın, who has been appointed to make changes in Articles of the Law and Law, and of the Constitution of the Law and of the Law and of the Law and of the Law and of the Law and of the Law and of the Law and of the Law and of the Law and of the Law and of the Law and of the Law and of the Constitution and of the Constitution and of the Constitution and of the Constitution and of the European Parliament and of the European Parliament and of the European Parliament and of the European Parliament and of the Constitution and of the European Parliament and of the European Parliament and of the Constitution and of the European Parliament and of the Constitution and of the European Parliament and of the European Parliament and of the European Parliament and the European Parliament and of the European Parliament and the European Parliament and of the Member States and of the Member States and of the Member States, the Union and of the Union and of the Union and the Union and of the Union and of the Union and the Union and of the Union and of the Union and the Union and of the Union and of the Union and of the Union and of the Union and of the Union and of the Union and of the Union and of the Union and of the Union and of the Union and of the Union and of the Union and of the Union and of the Europeans and of the Union and of the Union We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Günal Alim İlk Nevzat Don't be afraid Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0100par0066	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0092par0067	Does the government agree? We don't agree. You want me to read the motive?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0101par0070	Motive.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0092par0071	I'm reading the reason: The general reason for the Bill of Law is that the bill includes strengthening the Istanbul Financial Centre, reducing the austerity deficit, diversifying financial resources, but mainly developing the insurance and individual pension system. However, the insurance industry's expectations were not fully met within the bill. The new individual pension arrangement, brought with the Bill of Law, gives up tax cuts, and moves on to state contributions. In the current arrangement, those who put bonuses into the individual pension system may be able to download it from the income tax matrix. If a person's income is covered by a 15% income tax, he can reduce 15 per cent of the premium he has invested, and if he is in a 35 per cent tax slice, he can reduce 35 per cent of the bonus. The application of state contributions is 25 per cent. The new arrangement provides an advantage for the sub-income group, providing a disadvantage for the upper income group. In the current arrangement, however, the person will receive a tax reduction immediately, while the person will receive a state contribution only when he retires. The current application pays a stoppage of 25 per cent of the total bonus amount when a person retires or leaves the system after applying for the exception of the income tax. In the new system, the person does not qualify for state contribution without retiring, nor does he benefit from 25 per cent of the exception. In the new system, the person will be entitled to 15 per cent of the state contribution by 3 years, 60 per cent by 10 years, 100 per cent by retiring. So when a person pays a 10-year bonus in the new system, he will not be able to benefit from the 1-Income tax exception, 2-25 per cent income tax exception, 40 per cent of the 3-state contribution. The new system includes regulations in favour of insurance companies, not more people. As the government returns 60 per cent of its contribution to the person's name, 40 per cent are left to the companies. These regulations encourage insurance companies, not individual pension and social security. Turkey has a savings deficit that is too large to be closed only by the incentive of the individual pension system. Savings have dropped to 12 per cent of GDP, and individual pension alone is not enough to reduce the savings deficit. Savings is a function of income. It is not possible to increase savings enough without increasing income. The bill contains certain necessary measures, but they are not sufficient to achieve the goals set out for the cause. The bill also includes special arrangements for methods such as do-work and do-orala-development, as well as an exception to the Public Relations Act. However, it is not right to be based solely on lowering debt costs due to the exception of VAT. It is also understood that investments thought to be made under laws 3996 and 3359 under the NGO No. 652; public investment project stocks and annual programmes; no assessment of investment costs, budget loads and the expansion of debt obligations; in other words, the impact analysis is not being done in accordance with legislation on drafting legislation. On the other hand, changes to the development of our country's insurance business and to the changes that consumers proposed in the 5684 Insurance Act to increase the sense of trust in the sector, to ensure experts' economic independence towards insurance companies, and to ensure that they can perform their duties objectively and independently. During subcommittee talks, these demands have been ignored, even though representatives of sector representatives and representatives of the TOBB Insurance Enforcement Committee have been deposed to be able to reach a solution to the upper commission. In particular, the auto accident major did not arrange for insurance experts to be randomly appointed through the software system according to specific criteria. For reasons revealed above, the item must be removed from the draft text.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0102par0081	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0092par0082	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Can you guys count it? Clerk members disagreed with each other. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's also a motion in Article 59, which I'll have you read and processed. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Of İstanbul MP Aydın Agha Ayayydın, who has been appointed to make changes in Articles of the Laws and Laws, and of the Laws and Laws Acts Act 271; of Kayseri MP Ahmet Ökzütkaya and 5 MPs; and of the 5 MPs who have been appointed to make changes in Articles of the Law and Law Act 59. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Günal Alim İk Kemalettin Yilmaz Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0103par0099	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0092par0100	Does the government agree? We don't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0104par0102	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0092par0103	Motive... The general reason for the Bill of Law is that the bill includes strengthening the Istanbul Financial Centre, reducing the austerity deficit, diversifying financial resources, but mainly developing the insurance and individual pension system. However, the insurance industry's expectations were not fully met within the bill. The new individual pension arrangement, brought with the Bill of Law, gives up tax cuts, and moves on to state contributions. In the current arrangement, those who put bonuses into the individual pension system may be able to download it from the income tax matrix. If a person's income is covered by 15 per cent income tax, he can reduce 15 per cent of the premium he has invested, and if he is on 35 per cent tax, he can reduce 35 per cent of the premium. The application of state contributions is 25 per cent. The new arrangement provides an advantage for the sub-income group, providing a disadvantage for the upper income group. In the current arrangement, however, the person will receive a tax reduction immediately, while the person will receive a state contribution only when he retires. The current application pays a stoppage of 25 per cent of the total bonus amount when a person retires or leaves the system after applying for the exception of the income tax. In the new system, the person does not qualify for state contribution without retiring, nor does he benefit from 25 per cent of the exception. In the new system, the person will be entitled to 15 per cent of the state contribution by 3 years, 60 per cent by 10 years, 100 per cent by retiring. So when a person pays a 10-year bonus in the new system, he will not benefit from the 1-income tax exception, 2-25 per cent income tax exception, and 40 per cent of the 3-state contribution share. The new system includes regulations in favour of insurance companies, not more people. As the government returns 60 per cent of its contribution to the person's name, 40 per cent are left to the companies. These regulations encourage insurance companies, not individual pension and social security. Turkey has a savings deficit that is too large to be closed only by the incentive of the individual pension system. Savings have dropped to 12 per cent of GDP, and individual pension alone is not enough to reduce the savings deficit. Savings is a function of income. It is not possible to increase savings enough without increasing income. The bill contains certain necessary measures, but they are not sufficient to achieve the goals set out for the cause. The bill also includes special arrangements for methods such as do-work and do-orala-development, as well as an exception to the Public Relations Act. However, it is not right to be based solely on lowering debt costs due to the exception of VAT. It is also understood that investments thought to be made under laws 3996 and 3359 under the NGO No. 652; public investment project stocks and annual programmes; no assessment of investment costs, budget loads and the expansion of debt obligations; in other words, the impact analysis is not being done in accordance with legislation on drafting legislation. On the other hand, changes to the development of our country's insurance business and to the changes that consumers proposed in the 5684 Insurance Act to increase the sense of trust in the sector, to ensure experts' economic independence towards insurance companies, and to ensure that they can perform their duties objectively and independently. During subcommittee talks, these demands have been ignored, even though representatives of sector representatives and representatives of the TOBB Insurance Enforcement Committee have been deposed to be able to reach a solution to the upper commission. In particular, the auto accident major did not arrange for insurance experts to be randomly appointed through the software system according to specific criteria. For reasons revealed above, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two proposals in Article 60. I'll have them read and processed in order: T. B. M. Head of Parliament. The current bill number 271 is 60 of the bill/proposal. We would like to change the information that would discredit the explanation of the terms of the article. Kamer Young Arif Bulut M. Ali Sesame Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu R. Kerim Özkan
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0105par0122	He didn't read our motion properly, Mr. President. Can't he read or write?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0092par0123	I'm going to read and process the current motion: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey In accordance with the 271 rankings held by individual pension and investment system law and the draft of the Laws Against Some Laws and Laws Acts, İstanbul MP Aydın Agha Ayayadın's proposal for amendments to the 193 IRS Tax Act, Kayseri MP Ahmet Ökzütkaya 5 MPs; on the amendment of the Law Order of Laws and Laws of Laws under some Laws and Laws. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Günal Alim İlk Nevzat Don't be afraid Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0106par0131	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0092par0132	Does the government agree? We don't agree. What should I do, Mr. Shandir?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0107par0135	Motive.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0092par0136	Read the reason. The general reason for the Bill of Law is that the bill includes strengthening the Istanbul Financial Centre, reducing the austerity deficit, diversifying financial resources, but mainly developing the insurance and individual pension system. However, the insurance industry's expectations were not fully met within the bill. The new individual pension arrangement, brought with the Bill of Law, gives up tax cuts, and moves on to state contributions. In the current arrangement, those who put bonuses into the individual pension system may be able to download it from the income tax matrix. If a person's income is covered by a 15% income tax, he can reduce 15 per cent of the premium he has invested, and if he is in a 35 per cent tax slice, he can reduce 35 per cent of the bonus. The application of state contributions is 25 per cent. The new arrangement provides an advantage for the sub-income group, providing a disadvantage for the upper income group. In the current arrangement, however, the person will receive a tax reduction immediately, while the person will receive a state contribution only when he retires. The current application pays a stoppage of 25 per cent of the total bonus amount when a person retires or leaves the system after applying for the exception of the income tax. In the new system, the person does not qualify for state contribution without retiring, nor does he benefit from 25 per cent of the exception. In the new system, the person will be entitled to 15 per cent of the state contribution by 3 years, 60 per cent by 10 years, 100 per cent by retiring. So when a person pays a ten-year bonus in the new system and leaves, he will not be able to benefit from 1-IRS exception, 2-percent income tax exception, 40 per cent of the 3-state contribution. The new system includes regulations in favour of insurance companies, not more people. As the government returns 60 per cent of its contribution to the person's name, 40 per cent are left to the companies. These regulations encourage insurance companies, not individual pension and social security. Turkey has a savings deficit that is too large to be closed only by the incentive of the individual pension system. Savings have dropped to 12 per cent of GDP, and individual pension alone is not enough to reduce the savings deficit. Savings is a function of income. It is not possible to increase savings enough without increasing income. The bill contains certain necessary measures, but they are not sufficient to achieve the goals set out for the cause. The bill also includes special arrangements for methods such as do-work and do-orala-development, as well as an exception to the Public Relations Act. However, it is not right to be based solely on lowering debt costs due to the exception of VAT. It is also understood that investments thought to be made under laws 3996 and 3359 under the NGO No. 652; public investment project stocks and annual programmes; no assessment of investment costs, budget loads and the expansion of debt obligations; in other words, the impact analysis is not being done in accordance with legislation on drafting legislation. On the other hand, changes to the development of our country's insurance business and to the changes that consumers proposed in the 5684 Insurance Act to increase the sense of trust in the sector, to ensure experts' economic independence towards insurance companies, and to ensure that they can perform their duties objectively and independently. During subcommittee talks, these demands have been ignored, even though representatives of sector representatives and representatives of the TOBB Insurance Enforcement Committee have been deposed to be able to reach a solution to the upper commission. In particular, the auto accident major did not arrange for insurance experts to be randomly appointed through the software system according to specific criteria. For reasons revealed above, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes:
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0108par0148	I have a motion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0092par0149	I'm so sorry.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0108par0150	The Court Clerk doesn't want to read me.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0092par0151	Now he's going to read again, I'm sorry, we made a mistake. I'll have the other motion read and processed: T. B. M. Head of Parliament. The current bill number 271 is 60 of the bill/proposal. We would like to change the information that would discredit the explanation of the terms of the article. Kamer Young (Tunceli) and his friends Mr. President, the Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0109par0157	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0092par0158	Government, do you agree? We don't agree. Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0110par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, you see the inability and pitiful state of the AKP Group of Parliament, the government is empty in order, they're bringing in 70 articles of law in one day. They say, "We're going to make 70 laws in one day." They say, "There's not enough of a decision in two."
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0111par0163	How many people are in the ranks of the CHP?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0110par0164	They're lowering the House's reputation, the public's watching us. That's not gonna happen, guys! There can't be such an illegitimate group, there won't be a government that doesn't have a face to face with the House, but it suits you, of course, it doesn't matter to you because you've lost certain values because those who don't lose certain values don't fall into this situation. In that sense, these are very important things. Mr. President, I'm, of course, a member of the CSI Commission, which makes the word "silence" AKP's lifeline. They call everything a secret, a lifeline. We're checking bank accounts at the CIT Commission. They gave one person a loan of $2 quadrillion, 700 trillion. We say: "Who is this, can you explain this?" says the head of the CIT Commission immediately: "This is the secret of the bank. "The 73°th article of the law concerning bank secrets says that they have given 2 quadrillion dollars to someone who is not in charge of this information. You know, Mr. Recep took a $375 million loan from a bank to a company his son-in-law was the 13th in his credit rating. So I'm talking about two quadrillion 800 trillions, how much is it... so you've got a lot of loans, so explain these... they don't have any. Now, the only guarantee of the AKP is to hide their actions, their abuses, by hiding in the law, in secrets. Is that a thing? So you're not going to tell the Grand National Assembly of Turkey what bank, what loan you gave to whom, and the name of the person who took this loan! I got a letter. He says in the letter: "Falanca lends money to the bank's assistant manager or something. After that loan, the vice president of that bank transferred to that company for a high price. And then when this general manager came here, he brought it back here. I ask the bank manager: "Did you give credit to this person?" The Commissioner immediately says: "Sir, it's a bank secret." Would that happen, my friends?" In the meantime, let me tell you something about the Commission. Today we were reviewing TEDAŞ's accounts at the CSI Commission, and unfortunately, the AKP showed its informality in parliament there, as well as in the Commission. While we opposition party MPs were there, 12 members of the 21-member AKP KİT Commission couldn't come, and then we didn't do the Commission's work today, unfortunately. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it is truly the greatest evil that has ever been done to this country, to this House, to bring this nation into this state. Now, let's do what we can. They gave the monkey a peach. He took the peach behind him before he swallowed it. Why are you taking that peach behind your back? The other day, I swallowed a peach I couldn't dig out, and now I want to try and see if I can get its core out. He said, "Don't swallow the peach you can't take out!"
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0112par0171	Is that how you do it, and you measure it?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0110par0172	People have a certain power. So using these powers like this... Of course, there's a Supreme Court behind you. Now, according to Article 35 of the Civil Code, commissions can't deal with anything other than the work they've been referred to, which is very clear. He doesn't serve as Speaker of Parliament, our friends who run the House don't, unfortunately, but the Constitutional Court never does. Look, there's a presidential election here on August 28th, and the Constitutional Court still hasn't made up its mind. But if there's a chance that Mr. Ama Tayyip has stepped up and used all the resources of the state, stadiums are holding, propaganda, but if there's a cancellation in return, of course, he's trying to hide it, too. How's that for a Supreme Court? The other day we took a law that wasn't discussed here, it says there is no irreparableness. So of course, when institutions are destroyed, those who hold political power will dare destroy, destroy the state with all its institutions, but I don't think it's going to be up to you because -- the Constitutional Court -- we're going to make a law in our day, and we're going to dissolve them, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0113par0179	We demand roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0114par0180	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Moroğlu, Mr. Acar, Mr. Süstündağ, Mr. Çağün, Mr. Öner, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Çelemen, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Earth, Mr. Kuruturk, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Bayututan. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start roll call. There are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 61 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the amendment to the Law shall be made to some Laws and Laws under the Laws, and to the Constitutions of İstanbul MP Aydın Agha Ayayadın, and to the amendment of Article 61 of the Article 61 of the Law shall be taken out of the draft, as well as by Kayseri MP Ahmet Ökzazizkaya and 5 MPs; and to the amendment of the Law and Law Orders. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mustafa Moroğlu Kazim Kurt Is the commission in?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0115par0200	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0114par0201	Does the government agree? We don't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0116par0203	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0114par0204	Read the reason. The general reason for the Bill of Law is that the bill includes strengthening the Istanbul Financial Centre, reducing the austerity deficit, diversifying financial resources, but mainly developing the insurance and individual pension system. However, the insurance industry's expectations were not fully met within the bill. The new individual pension arrangement, brought with the Bill of Law, gives up tax cuts, and moves on to state contributions. In the current arrangement, those who put bonuses into the individual pension system may be able to download it from the income tax matrix. If a person's income is covered by a 15% income tax, he can reduce 15 per cent of the premium he has invested, and if he is in a 35 per cent tax slice, he can reduce 35 per cent of the bonus. The application of state contributions is 25 per cent. The new arrangement provides an advantage for the sub-income group, providing a disadvantage for the upper income group. In the current arrangement, however, the person will receive a tax reduction immediately, while the person will receive a state contribution only when he retires. The current application pays a stoppage of 25 per cent of the total bonus amount when a person retires or leaves the system after applying for the exception of the income tax. In the new system, the person does not qualify for state contribution without retiring, nor does he benefit from 25 per cent of the exception. In the new system, the person will be entitled to 15 per cent of the state contribution by 3 years, 60 per cent by 10 years, 100 per cent by retiring. So when a person pays a ten-year bonus in the new system and leaves, he will not be able to benefit from 1-IRS exception, 2-percent income tax exception, 40 per cent of the 3-state contribution. The new system includes regulations in favour of insurance companies, not more people. As the government returns 60 per cent of its contribution to the person's name, 40 per cent are left to the companies. These regulations encourage insurance companies, not individual pension and social security. Turkey has a savings deficit that is too large to be closed only by the incentive of the individual pension system. Savings have dropped to 12 per cent of GDP, and individual pension alone is not enough to reduce the savings deficit. Savings is a function of income. It is not possible to increase savings enough without increasing income. The bill contains certain necessary measures, but they are not sufficient to achieve the goals set out for the cause. The bill also includes special arrangements for methods such as do-work and do-orala-development, as well as an exception to the Public Relations Act. However, it is not right to be based solely on lowering debt costs due to the exception of VAT. It is also understood that investments thought to be made under laws 3996 and 3359 under the NGO No. 652; public investment project stocks and annual programmes; no assessment of investment costs, budget loads and the expansion of debt obligations; in other words, the impact analysis is not being done in accordance with legislation on drafting legislation. On the other hand, changes to the development of our country's insurance business and to the changes that consumers proposed in the 5684 Insurance Act to increase the sense of trust in the sector, to ensure experts' economic independence towards insurance companies, and to ensure that they can perform their duties objectively and independently. During subcommittee talks, these demands have been ignored, even though representatives of sector representatives and representatives of the TOBB Insurance Enforcement Committee have been deposed to be able to reach a solution to the upper commission. In particular, the auto accident major did not arrange for insurance experts to be randomly appointed through the software system according to specific criteria. For reasons revealed above, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 62, I'll read it and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Of İstanbul MP Aydın Agha Ayayydın, who has been appointed to make changes in Articles of the Laws and Laws, and of the Laws of the Laws and Laws, and of the Laws and of the Laws and of the Laws and of the Laws and of the Laws and of the Laws and of the Laws and of the Laws and of the Laws and of the Constitution of the People of the People of the Republic of Turkey, there is a proposal of the Law to make changes in the Law of the Law. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kazim Kurt Ali Serindağ Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0117par0224	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0114par0225	Government, do you agree? We don't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0118par0227	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0114par0228	Read the reason, please. For the general reason of the bill, the theme of the bill! Their goal is to strengthen the Istanbul Financial Centre, reduce the austerity deficit, diversify financial resources, but the bill mainly includes the development of insurance and the development of the individual pension system. However, the insurance industry's expectations were not fully met within the bill. The new individual pension arrangement, brought with the Bill of Law, gives up tax cuts, and moves on to state contributions. In the current arrangement, those who put bonuses into the individual pension system may be able to download it from the income tax matrix. If a person's income is covered by 15 per cent income tax, he can reduce 15 per cent of the premium he has invested, and if he is on 35 per cent tax, he can reduce 35 per cent of the premium. The application of state contributions is 25 per cent. The new arrangement provides an advantage for the sub-income group, providing a disadvantage for the upper income group. In the current arrangement, however, the person will receive a tax reduction immediately, while the person will receive a state contribution only when he retires. The current application pays a stoppage of 25 per cent of the total bonus amount when a person retires or leaves the system after applying for the exception of the income tax. In the new system, the person does not qualify for state contribution without retiring, nor does he benefit from 25 per cent of the exception. In the new system, the person will be entitled to 15 per cent of the state contribution by 3 years, 60 per cent by 10 years, 100 per cent by retiring. So when a person pays a 10-year bonus in the new system, he will not be able to benefit from the one-income tax exception, 2-25 per cent income tax exception, 3-40 per cent of the state's contribution. The new system includes regulations in favour of insurance companies, not more people. As the government returns 60 per cent of its contribution to the person's name, 40 per cent are left to the companies. These regulations encourage insurance companies, not individual pension and social security. Turkey has a savings deficit that is too large to be closed only by the incentive of the individual pension system. Savings have dropped to 12 per cent of GDP, and individual pension alone is not enough to reduce the savings deficit. Savings is a function of income. It is not possible to increase savings enough without increasing income. The bill contains certain necessary measures, but they are not sufficient to achieve the goals set out for the cause. The bill also includes special arrangements for methods such as do-work and do-orala-development, as well as an exception to the Public Relations Act. However, it is not right to be based solely on lowering debt costs due to the exception of VAT. It is also understood that investments thought to be made under laws 3996 and 3359 under the NGO No. 652; public investment project stocks and annual programmes; no assessment of investment costs, budget loads and the expansion of debt obligations; in other words, the impact analysis is not being done in accordance with legislation on drafting legislation. On the other hand, the amendments to the development of our country's insurance policy and to boost the sense of confidence in the sector in consumers, to ensure experts' economic independence against insurance companies, and to ensure that they can perform their duties objectively and independently were not taken into account in Insurance Act 5684. During subcommittee talks, these demands have been ignored, even though representatives of sector representatives and representatives of the TOBB Insurance Enforcement Committee have been deposed to be able to reach a solution to the upper commission. In particular, the auto accident major did not arrange for insurance experts to be randomly appointed through the software system according to specific criteria. For reasons revealed above, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, there's a motion in Article 63 that I'm going to read and process. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Of İstanbul MP Aydın Agha Ayayydın, who has been appointed to make changes in Articles of the Laws and Laws, and of the Laws and Laws Acts Act 271; of Kayseri MP Ahmet Ökzütkaya and 5 MPs; and of the Law Orders and 5 MPs who have been appointed to make changes in Articles of the Law. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mustafa Moroğlu Kazim Kurt Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0119par0248	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0114par0249	Government? We don't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0120par0251	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0114par0252	I'm reading the reason: The general reason for the Bill of Law is that the bill includes strengthening the Istanbul Financial Centre, reducing the austerity deficit, diversifying financial resources, but mainly developing the insurance and individual pension system. However, the insurance industry's expectations were not fully met within the bill. The new individual pension arrangement, brought with the Bill of Law, gives up tax cuts, and moves on to state contributions. In the current arrangement, those who put bonuses into the individual pension system may be able to download it from the income tax matrix. If a person's income is covered by 15 per cent income tax, he can reduce 15 per cent of the premium he has invested, and if he is on 35 per cent tax, he can reduce 35 per cent of the premium. The application of state contributions is 25 per cent. The new arrangement provides an advantage for the sub-income group, providing a disadvantage for the upper income group. In the current arrangement, however, the person will receive a tax reduction immediately, while the person will receive a state contribution only when he retires. The current application pays a stoppage of 25 per cent of the total bonus amount when a person retires or leaves the system after applying for the exception of the income tax. In the new system, the person does not qualify for state contribution without retiring, nor does he benefit from 25 per cent of the exception. In the new system, the person will be entitled to 15 per cent of the state contribution by 3 years, 60 per cent by 10 years, 100 per cent by retiring. So when a person pays a 10-year bonus in the new system, he will not benefit from the 1-Income Tax exception, 2-25 per cent income tax exception, and 40 per cent of the 3-state contribution share. The new system includes regulations in favour of insurance companies, not more people. As the government returns 60 per cent of its contribution to the person's name, 40 per cent are left to the companies. These regulations encourage insurance companies, not individual pension and social security. Turkey has a savings deficit that is too large to be closed only by the incentive of the individual pension system. Savings have dropped to 12 per cent of GDP, and the incentive for individual pension alone is not enough to reduce the savings deficit. Savings is a function of income. It is not possible to increase savings enough without increasing income. The bill contains certain necessary measures, but they are not sufficient to achieve the goals set out for the cause. The bill also includes special arrangements for methods such as do-work and do-orala-development, as well as an exception to the Public Relations Act. However, it is not right to be based solely on lowering debt costs due to the exception of VAT. It is also understood that investments thought to be made under laws 3996 and 3359 under the NGO No. 652; public investment project stocks and annual programmes; no assessment of investment costs, budget loads and the expansion of debt obligations; in other words, the impact analysis is not being done in accordance with legislation on drafting legislation. On the other hand, changes to the development of our country's insurance business and to the changes that consumers proposed in the 5684 Insurance Act to increase the sense of trust in the sector, to ensure experts' economic independence towards insurance companies, and to ensure that they can perform their duties objectively and independently. During subcommittee talks, these demands have been ignored, even though representatives of sector representatives and representatives of the TOBB Insurance Enforcement Committee have been deposed to be able to reach a solution to the upper commission. In particular, the auto accident major did not arrange for insurance experts to be randomly appointed through the software system according to specific criteria. For reasons revealed above, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 64 that I'm having read and processed. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey A proposal for the amendment of İstanbul MP Aydın Agha Ayayydın's Law to the Law on Individual Pensions and Investment Systems, number 271, and 5 MPs to the Amendment in Articles of Laws and Laws, and 64 of İstanbul MP Aydın Agha Ayyaldın's Law Proposal on the Law on Taxes, 193; Kayseri MP Ahmet Ökzütkaya and 5 MPs; 64 of the Law and 5 Laws and 5 MPs to the Amendment of the Law Orders. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kazim Kurt Ali Serindağ Do you agree with the commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0121par0275	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0114par0276	I'm having it read. The general reason for the Bill of Law is that the bill includes strengthening the Istanbul Financial Centre, reducing the austerity deficit, diversifying financial resources, but mainly developing the insurance and individual pension system. However, the insurance industry's expectations were not fully met within the bill. The new individual pension arrangement, brought with the Bill of Law, gives up tax cuts, and moves on to state contributions. In the current arrangement, those who put bonuses into the individual pension system may be able to download it from the income tax matrix. If a person's income is covered by 15 per cent income tax, he can reduce 15 per cent of the premium he has invested, and if he is on 35 per cent tax, he can reduce 35 per cent of the premium. The application of state contributions is 25 per cent. The new arrangement provides an advantage for the sub-income group, providing a disadvantage for the upper income group. However, in the current arrangement, the person will receive the government contribution only when he retires. The current application pays a stoppage of 25 per cent of the total bonus amount when a person retires or leaves the system after applying for the exception of the income tax. In the new system, the person does not qualify for state contribution without retiring, nor does he benefit from 25 per cent of the exception. In the new system, the person will be entitled to 15 per cent of the state contribution by 3 years, 60 per cent by 10 years, 10 per cent by retiring. So when a person pays 10 years in the new system and leaves, he will not be able to benefit from a 40 per cent share of the government's contribution -- the exception of a 25 per cent income tax on income tax on 2-profits. The new system includes regulations in favour of insurance companies, not more people. As the government returns 60 per cent of its contribution to the person's name, 40 per cent are left to the companies. These regulations encourage insurance companies, not individual pension and social security. Turkey has a savings deficit that is too large to be closed only by the incentive of the individual pension system. Savings have dropped to 12 per cent of GDP, and individual pension alone is not enough to reduce the savings deficit. Savings is a function of income. It's not possible to increase savings on a sterile level without increasing income. The bill contains certain necessary measures, but they are not sufficient to achieve the goals set out for the cause. The bill also includes special arrangements for methods such as do-work and do-orala-development, as well as an exception to the Public Relations Act. However, it is not right to be based solely on lowering debt costs due to the exception of VAT. It is also understood that investments thought to be made under laws 3996 and 3359 under the NGO No. 652; public investment project stocks and annual programmes; no assessment of investment costs, budget loads and the expansion of debt obligations; in other words, the impact analysis is not being done in accordance with legislation on drafting legislation. On the other hand, changes to the development of our country's insurance business and to the changes that consumers proposed in the 5684 Insurance Act to increase the sense of trust in the sector, to ensure experts' economic independence towards insurance companies, and to ensure that they can perform their duties objectively and independently. During subcommittee talks, these demands have been ignored, even though representatives of sector representatives and representatives of the TOBB Insurance Enforcement Committee have been deposed to be able to reach a solution to the upper commission. In particular, the auto accident major did not arrange for insurance experts to be randomly appointed through the software system according to specific criteria. For reasons revealed above, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 65, I'll read it and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the amendment to the Law shall be made to some Laws and Laws under the Laws, and to the Constitutions of İstanbul MP Aydın Agha Ayayadın, and to the amendments to the Law of the 193 IRS Tax Act; Kayseri MP Ahmet Ökzazkaya and 5 MPs; 5 Laws and Laws shall be removed from the draft. Mustafa Moroğlu Gürkut Acar Ali Serindağ Kazim Kurt Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0122par0296	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0114par0297	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0123par0298	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0114par0299	Mr. Tarhan, do you want me to give you an alibi?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0124par0300	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0114par0301	I'm reading the reason: The general reason for the Bill of Law is that the bill includes strengthening the Istanbul Financial Centre, reducing the austerity deficit, diversifying financial resources, but mainly developing the insurance and individual pension system. However, the insurance industry's expectations were not fully met within the bill. The new individual pension arrangement, brought with the Bill of Law, gives up tax cuts, and moves on to state contributions. In the current arrangement, those who put bonuses into the individual pension system may be able to download it from the income tax matrix. If a person's income is covered by 15 per cent income tax, he can reduce 15 per cent of the premium he has invested, and if he is on 35 per cent tax, he can reduce 35 per cent of the bonus. The application of state contributions is 25 per cent. The new arrangement provides an advantage for the sub-income group, providing a disadvantage for the upper income group. However, in the current arrangement, the person will receive the government contribution only when he retires. The current application pays a stoppage of 25 per cent of the total bonus amount when a person retires or leaves the system after applying for the exception of the income tax. In the new system, the person does not qualify for state contribution without retiring, nor does he benefit from 25 per cent of the exception. In the new system, the person will be entitled to 15 per cent of the state contribution by 3 years, 60 per cent by 10 years, 100 per cent by retiring. So when a person pays a ten-year bonus in the new system and leaves, he will not be able to benefit from the first-income tax exception of the 25 per cent income tax on the two-minus, the 40 per cent share of the 3-state contribution. The new system includes regulations in favour of insurance companies, not more people. As the government returns 60 per cent of its contribution to the person's name, 40 per cent are left to the companies. These regulations encourage insurance companies, not individual pension and social security. Turkey has a savings deficit that is too large to be closed only by the incentive of the individual pension system. Savings have dropped to 12 per cent of GDP, and individual pension alone is not enough to reduce the savings deficit. Savings is a function of income. It is not possible to increase savings enough without increasing income. The bill contains certain necessary measures, but they are not sufficient to achieve the goals set out for the cause. The bill also includes special arrangements for methods such as do-work and do-orala-development, as well as an exception to the Public Relations Act. However, it is not right to be based solely on lowering debt costs due to the exception of VAT. It is also understood that investments thought to be made under laws 3996 and 3359 under the NGO No. 652; public investment project stocks and annual programmes; no assessment of investment costs, budget loads and the expansion of debt obligations; in other words, the impact analysis is not being done in accordance with legislation on drafting legislation. On the other hand, changes to the development of our country's insurance business and to the changes that consumers proposed in the 5684 Insurance Act to increase the sense of trust in the sector, to ensure experts' economic independence towards insurance companies, and to ensure that they can perform their duties objectively and independently. During subcommittee talks, these demands have been ignored, even though representatives of sector representatives and representatives of the TOBB Insurance Enforcement Committee have been deposed to be able to reach a solution to the upper commission. In particular, the auto accident major did not arrange for insurance experts to be randomly appointed through the software system according to specific criteria. For reasons revealed above, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 66, I'm having it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the 271 rankings held by individual pensions and investment systems law and the draft of the Laws Against Some Laws and Laws Acts, İstanbul MP Aydın Agha Ayayadın's proposal for amendments to the 193 IRS Tax Act; Kayseri MP Ahmet Ökzütkaya and 5 MPs to the amendment of the Law Order of Laws and Laws 66. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kazim Kurt Ali Serindağ Is the commission in?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0125par0321	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0114par0322	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0126par0323	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0127par0324	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0114par0325	We're reading the motive. The general reason for the Bill of Law is that the bill includes strengthening the Istanbul Financial Centre, reducing the austerity deficit, diversifying financial resources, but mainly developing the insurance and individual pension system. However, the insurance industry's expectations were not fully met within the bill. The new individual pension arrangement, brought with the Bill of Law, gives up tax cuts, and moves on to state contributions. In the current arrangement, those who put bonuses into the individual pension system may be able to download it from the income tax matrix. If a person's income is covered by a 15% income tax, he can reduce 15 per cent of the premium he has invested, and if he is in a 35 per cent tax slice, he can reduce 35 per cent of the bonus. The application of state contributions is 25 per cent. The new arrangement provides an advantage for the sub-income group, providing a disadvantage for the upper income group. In the current arrangement, however, the person will receive a tax reduction immediately, while the person will receive a state contribution only when he retires. The current application pays a stoppage of 25 per cent of the total amount of payout he earns when he retires or leaves the system, with the exception of the income tax, over 75 per cent. In the new system, the person does not qualify for state contribution without retiring, nor does he benefit from 25 per cent of the exception. In the new system, the person will be entitled to 15 per cent of the state contribution by 3 years, 60 per cent by 10 years, 100 per cent by retiring. So when a person pays a 10-year bonus in the new system, he will not be able to benefit from the 1-Income Tax exception, the 25-percent income tax exception on the 2-private, the 40 per cent share of the 3-state contribution. The new system includes regulations in favour of insurance companies, not more people. As the government returns 60 per cent of its contribution to the person's name, 40 per cent are left to the companies. These regulations encourage insurance companies, not individual pension and social security. Turkey has a savings deficit that is too large to be closed only by the incentive of the individual pension system. Savings have dropped to 12 per cent of GDP, and the incentive for individual pension alone is not enough to reduce the savings deficit. Savings is a function of income. It is not possible to increase savings enough without increasing income. The bill contains certain necessary measures, but they are not sufficient to achieve the goals set out for the cause. The bill also includes special arrangements for methods such as do-work and do-orala-development, as well as an exception to the Public Relations Act. However, it is not right to be based solely on lowering debt costs due to the exception of VAT. It is also understood that investments thought to be made under laws 3996 and 3359 under the NGO No. 652; public investment project stocks and annual programmes; no assessment of investment costs, budget loads and the expansion of debt obligations; in other words, the impact analysis is not being done in accordance with legislation on drafting legislation. On the other hand, changes to the development of our country's insurance business and to the changes that consumers proposed in the 5684 Insurance Act to increase the sense of trust in the sector, to ensure experts' economic independence towards insurance companies, and to ensure that they can perform their duties objectively and independently. During subcommittee talks, these demands have been ignored, even though representatives of sector representatives and representatives of the TOBB Insurance Enforcement Committee have been deposed to be able to reach a solution to the upper commission. In particular, the auto accident major did not arrange for insurance experts to be randomly appointed through the software system according to specific criteria. For reasons revealed above, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 68 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the Interim Article 1 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in the Interim Article 2. I'm having it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As follows, we propose and propose to change the first joke of Article 2 of the Interim Law Charter to be changed into Article 271 by the Law and Investment Systems Act of Individual Retirement, and to change the terms of the Law and Investment Systems, which are included in the second joke, on the basis of the application of the law and on the condition of remaining in the system for three years. Mahir Ünal Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Yusuf Başer Nihat Zeybekci Mehmet Emin Dindar Abdurrahim Akdağ Sevde Bayazut Runs Pelin Günş Bakır "1) As of 29/5/2012, the individual pension system will not be paid for the government's contribution to the individual pension system until 31/12/2014, which has completed a pension agreement in two years from the date of its execution." Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0128par0354	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0114par0355	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0129par0356	We agree.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0130par0357	Motive.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0114par0358	I'm reading the reason: It was intended to prevent participants from leaving the system and getting their savings back into the system to cause abuse in the application of state contribution, and it was clear that the provisions related to matter were carried out. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the accepted motion, I submit to your votes the temporary clause 2, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 70, and I'm having it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the 70th Articles of the Perpetual Law, as follows, in accordance with the Act on Individual Pensions and Investment Systems, which is currently in session. Mahir Ünal Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Tülin Erkal Black Tülay Bakır Sevde Bayazut Runs Safija Seymenoğlu H. Hami Yıldırım İlhan İlbilen A) 2nd, 4th, 5th and 8th articles, 16th and 29th, the second joke of the temporary 2nd article, 1/1/2013, B) Two months after the release of the 1st article, with articles 3rd, 6th, 7th and 9th, C) In the date of its release of other substances, It'll take effect." Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0131par0380	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0114par0381	Government?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0132par0382	We agree.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0114par0383	I'm reading the reason: Transfers to the individual pension system under Article 1 of Law 4632 are allowed to begin as of the date when the Law is in effect. It is also intended to prevent abuses in the state contribution system by allowing the first joke of the Interim Article II to take effect in the date of the publication of the Law. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. I submit the 70th article to your votes within the accepted framework of the motion: those who accept.. Those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The votes of the substances in the third section are complete. According to the Civil Charter 86, to state your opinion, to state the color of the game, Mr. Kamer Young is a member of the Tunceli Parliament. I'm about to go up against...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0133par0392	I'm not in favor of any of this anyway.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0114par0393	Here you go, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0133par0394	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, a bag of laws coming to us, the head of the law, what does it say: the individual pension law. It begins in Article 1. Article 1 mentions the Telegraph Law, the post mentions the telegram, the tax of inheritance of Article 2 of Article 2 of the Constitution, and Article 3 mentions Law 193. You don't have any lawyers, you don't know the law? So when you call it an individual pension bill, talk about individual retirement in Articles 1, 2, and 3, and then bring in other bag laws. Dear lawmakers, the AKP is bringing down this state in every way. Look, he's here last week... and he's bringing in a lot of law free of income tax, tax free of VAT. A motion has been made here recently: "All but all of the contributions to services -- all of them -- are reduced from the income tax matrix, according to Article 89 of Law 193." Again, all donations to the Koran courses are reduced according to the same clause. Guys, look, that's the law-- I said that, too, so there's a lot of that down here from the income tax statement. Now, what? Our Christian citizens will go, rather than pay taxes to the state, for their gains to declare, and then, after that, he will make a donation to his church, his synagogue, and he will make an estimate of it. What will our Sunni citizens do? Here's Mr. Recep. He's saying that he's going to build a 15,000-metre-square-square-square-foot mosque on the hill of Tayip Erdogan. And so he's going to tell all the conglomerates that you're going to give the tax to the state, donate it to this mosque. You know, when Mr. Recep and Mr. Abdullah get bored, they jump on a plane, they go abroad, they take their friends with them. A plane's overseas, guys, $500,000 is $1 million, and I've said it over and over again here, but it's paid off from a covered grant. But in Turkey, of course, there is no control, there is no law, there is no right, so there is an MP who raises his finger at everything, like you -- I don't know if it's true or wrong -- and there's a mass behind it. So...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0134par0400	Shame, shame! Boo, boo, boo!
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0133par0401	It's the people's country, the people's country... that's the truth.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0135par0402	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0134par0403	Shameless bastard! You're shameless! You're shameless!
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0135par0404	Mr. Young, please...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0136par0405	It is not the person who has covered up Erdoğan's flaws and faults. We've seen it here... so there's no such thing as justice in this country? We're out. Why? It's all thanks to you. A prosecutor's office of attorney calls to the statement, and you bring it here, and you say: "You cannot judge as guilty the crimes committed by those who were ordered by Tayyip Erdoğan." Where in the world is this? Is this anywhere in the world? So, sir, if the son of Recep Erdogan is involved in any commercial activity, this commercial activity is out of the question of taxes. It happens with your fingers. Is there such a thing anywhere in the world? I mean, does a ruling group act so irresponsiblely and take whatever decision they want against their own leader's every move? It's not in any state in the world, it's not in any Parliament, it's not a form of governance, it's not in any form of behavior that people who have a human conscience apply to. Why does it hurt us here? We say: Look, you have lifted control in this country, the judiciary is lifted, the Turkish Armed Forces are dissolved. Is there a country in a country where 167 armed forces have been arrested within an hour? In a country, the chief of staff is the head of an armed terrorist organization. Is there a country arrested? Ha, if he's guilty, judge him within three months, five months, and punish him. But, now, would it be okay to take turns taking care of those people, with all their families and an army, with all their dignity? February 28th... wasn't your Abdullah Gul a member of the Council of Ministers there on February 28th? What is February 28th? He says, "Follow the rules of secularism." I mean, I don't mean Islam, I don't mean Islam. He says, "Sir, practice secularism, a criminal who considers the crimes committed against interference a crime, a criminal who considers the struggle against interference a crime... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...will there ever be a democracy in mind? (AC PARTY RUMBLING) Is that a thing? So, yes, if there are people who will be admitted on February 28th, there, you, the Council of Ministers, why don't you let them in? Nowhere in the state... look, you consider secularism a crime, fighting interference...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0137par0409	Back, back!
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0138par0410	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0136par0411	Hold on, there's still time...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0138par0412	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0136par0413	Well, thank you. That's why I'm here, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0138par0416	The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to request that members who can't get into the system ask the technical staff for help, and in spite of that help, the members who can't get into the system, deliver the ballots to the presidency within a two-minute period scheduled for the vote. Also, if there are those who are going to vote, I'd like to request that they vote to which minister, to deliver the vote's color and the ballot with its name and name and signature, again, to the presidency within a two-minute period scheduled for the vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of an open vote on the individual pension savings and investment system law and the amendments to certain laws and laws: [[x]] == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. The Minister has a thank-you speech. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0139par0437	Mr. President, dear friends, on behalf of our government, I would like to thank you for the contributions to this bill's law enforcement by his power and opposition. The bill, of course, has generally included new allocations in the Insurance Act, in the individual pension system, and in the rental certificates, and is also crucial to the recovery of economic losses and increased internal savings in developed countries. In particular, such provisions will provide significant positives for the contribution of our country's changing and living economic transformation. These will also, hopefully, contribute to one of the problems of our economy's current open problem. I thank all our fellow contributors on behalf of our government. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit04spe0140par0441	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0140par0001	I now open the Fifth Session of the 119th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations on the bill and proposals. We will begin negotiations with the European Union Compliance Commission and Constitutional Commission reports, which are ranked third. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 276 rows. Members of parliament, this bill shall be considered under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Ali Özgündüz has asked for a statement on the entire bill.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0141par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have been sworn in on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the Bill of Public Controllership Number 276. I salute you all. Dear friends, we're not basically against this law, so we think it's useful to have a public supervision agency overseeing the actions and procedures of the administration in terms of human rights. The protection of citizens' rights and freedoms against governance, guaranteeing them, is an essential requirement of the legal state. It's the judicial control that's the main thing. This Public Control Agency is considered and implemented as an institution that does not replace judicial control, but helps the judiciary to solve some problems more quickly, simply before the trial. What's really important here is that the public inspector appeared as a system in the Western name of the ombudsman, listening to the complaints of the citizens on behalf of Parliament, controlling them, opening the way for the administration to reform. It will be appointed by Parliament, which is sort of a mediator between the rulers and the rulers, and will take its power from Parliament, but if it has an independent structure against Parliament, it works well and results. This institution is also valued by the European Union, and as you know, the European Union has an international ombudsman for the European Union. Turkey has also been advised to make an effort to establish a public audit agency in the 2010 Progress Report. It is also recommended by the Council of Europe to establish public supervision against corruption in Article 173 of Anti-Corruption Act. (x) 276 S. Numbered Bazmak is included in the report. Dear friends, when we look at the government's bill, it will be seen that the European Union's recommendations on public supervision are superficial. While the Republican People's Party believes that the public oversight institution will benefit our country, we believe that the government's bill does not correspond with the reality of our country, but needs a better, healthier arrangement. When we examine the world's examples, there is no mention of a single public inspector, ombudsman. This institution differs from each country's own conditions, population structure, socioeconomic education. Public auditing usually works in a healthy way in countries where there is no administrative judiciary. In our country, where the ruling judiciary is strong, this state-governing institution must be carefully handled and arranged accordingly. We believe that our country's education, sociocultural structure, given its population, a public prosecutor and five public auditors brought in with this bill will not show the benefit of our country's problems, which is expected by public supervision. For this reason, we especially recommend that public auditors be involved in military, security, prison, women's and children's rights, fighting discrimination, working and working life, environment, universities, health, local administrations, the use of public resources and the fight against corruption. During subcommittee work, our deputy minister for family and social affairs came and said that it was especially necessary to have an ombudsman, a public inspector for child rights, and we supported it because we advocated residency as a public auditor, but unfortunately, government officials, or rather, ruling party officials, opposed this proposal. The most important thing is independence from essential elements in order for public supervision to work effectively and efficiently. We believe that the appointment and dismissal of no public auditor, including Parliament, should be committed to a special procedure, with a qualified majority, so that no person or institution's public auditor can influence their decisions. In that case, the person or persons appointed as public inspector will be allowed to feel independent from the executive body and will also be given the authority to appoint the ruling political parties, as a qualified majority, and will also be raised to a position that takes full power from Parliament. In Article 74 of the 2010 Constitutional Amendment, we are convinced that the first two votes will require two-thirds of the total number of members, and the third vote will be called for a single majority of members, and if the third vote cannot provide a single majority, the fourth vote will be held, and the person who receives the most votes in this vote will be elected, but the new constitutional building process will be reassesssed and must be sought for a qualified majority in the election of the head of state. That's why we've prepared a amendment proposal, and I hope it's accepted by your votes, and that's how we'll shed light on the work of the Constitutional Compromise Commission in the coming process. Dear friends, we propose a more efficient and effective, independent and impartial public supervision, as the basic structure of the government's bill is generally deemed inadequate. For this reason, when we look at the matter in terms of matter, we are opposed to the 3, 4 and 6th article, because of the need for expertise, expertise, public supervision. Again, a special regulation should be made in Article 5 of the most important substances, and we say: "You must be granted the right to appeal to the administrative cause, to the public auditor, to the ombudsman." We think that if the failures on the application of citizens are to be corrected through the case, it should be authorized to prosecute on behalf of citizens, such as public defenders. Here, decisions concerning the use of judicial authority are kept out of control in accordance with Article 2 (c) of the same clause. Dear friends, especially if the execution decisions are judged and kept out of control under judicial authority, the decisions made by the prison boards, the disciplinary boards, and after that, the decision made by the execution judge upon the appeal, we believe public supervision would have been crippled at the moment of being excluded from this control. Therefore, we also feel that the execution judge's decisions should be taken under the supervision of public supervision after objecting to the verdicts made by prison disciplinary committees in prisons. Again, valuable lawmakers are out of control of Turkish Armed Forces' military activities only, in accordance with Article 2 (c) of Article 5 (c). What is the military activity here? This concept is very vague. The Joint Chiefs of Staff and State Department of Defense, who came to the subcommittee, did not object to a military ombudsman, who, as a principle, was a private contractor. However, in their own words, services such as training, maneuvering, exercise, and seizure are military service, and they have expressed that they will have serious disciplinary problems if the public inspector is to be audited. We say: In the name of this great Parliament, independent of the chain of command, that human rights violations in the Turkish Armed Forces must be subject to the control of the public inspector of military activities in order to ensure that human rights violations, labour conditions and repeated violations of rights have been reviewed and repeated. Again, the regulation of Article 10 of the bill does not require legal training for people who will become public auditors. In the whole world, however, it is imperative that the person who will be a public auditor in the Nordic countries, such as Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland, especially in which this institution works well, should be a good lawyer. Because we think it's imperative that the European Court of Human Rights to understand the concept of human rights, to follow and understand the provisions of the European Court of Human Rights, to have a human rights violation, or not; to have a public auditor who will oversee it, to have a good law education, or to graduate from the social sciences schools that have enough law classes in law schools or programs. Another point, dear friends, is the regulation of Article 11 of the bill. We say there must be a qualified majority. So, the General Assembly must be elected with two-thirds of the total number of members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Under the bill, the senior partner of the ruling party or coalition-era coalition will be in charge of the public auditor's election. In this case, there is no mention of the state inspector's independence from power. In this case, it's not actually going to be a public audit agency, it's going to be a review board. At this point, every institution has an inspection board, and there is an inspection board for the Prime Minister. It will no longer be born on behalf of the Parliament as a public auditor, a ruling, sort of audit board for the government. Therefore, we feel that the 11th article must be rearranged and the quality majority must be added to the substance. Dear friends, on the 14th article of the bill, the mandate of public auditors and chief executives has been set for four years. So Turkey is the same as the Grand National Assembly's mandate. It's the right approach if the choice is mandatory, but if the qualified majority is not elected, the public auditor, the ruling party, is elected by the votes of the big party, we say that when parliament's mandate expires, the mandate of the public auditor will be terminated, and therefore the new Parliamentary arithmetic will be re-elected for itself, in Article 14th, we think it is imperative that a regulation be made. Again, in Article 15, the issues related to dismissal are not clear. In the future, there will be a dismissal when this conflict is born, when the public auditor, the chief inspector and auditor, are said to have lost their qualifications. In this case, the full number of members should also be dismissed by the sole majority and secret vote of the public auditor. Because there's a rule in law that we think that parallelism, whatever procedure you've built, should be taken back in the same way. A very important issue in Article 17 is the fourth joke, which is said here that administrative applications must be exhausted before they can be applied to the public auditor. When this happens, friends, especially when the state inspector is in need of immediate seizure, he will not be able to exercise his authority and the intervention will be delayed, and many evidence will not be met on time. Therefore, the foreseeable outcome would unfortunately not have been taken. Again, in Article 18 of the bill, the public auditor is granted an unrecognisable authority to the public prosecutor, who is not given the authority to supervise the criminal investigation today, or even to the public inspector on our behalf, the MPs in this parliament. It is authorized to examine state secret documents. There's a work in the Justice Commission on state secrets right now. Who will decide the secret of the state? Mr. Prime Minister, Minister of National Defence, Minister of Interior, Minister of Foreign Affairs, a board of ministers will say this is a state secret. Sir, we won't be able to look, the state's attorney won't, but the public inspector will. We're saying that if there's any information and document reported as a state secret that's mandatory, then let the commission be notified, submit it to the General Assembly's approval if necessary, and we have an objection to the approval of the General Assembly that only the state secret can be examined. Again, in Article 20, it is said that this public auditor will be audited for six months and will complete the audit and write a report within six months, but what if it ends after six months? There's a gap in that. We say that he should finish in six months, and if he can't finish in six months, then he shouldn't write any more reports about it, because the issue will be brought to justice, and it will be an intervention in judicial authority, which means to influence the judiciary and to manipulate the judiciary. Therefore, it is imperative that it be completed within six months. We propose a binding judgment. Article 22 of the bill is to send the reports prepared by this institution to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but the commission will send its own opinion before it arrives. It's the Commission for Human Rights Review and Proclamation. He will first examine the report of this institution himself, and will present his opinion and comment to the General Assembly. Again, through the commission itself, it is correct that the report of the public auditor who oversees it on behalf of parliament should come to the agenda of the General Assembly without any opinion or comment and be judged within a month in the General Assembly. Otherwise, sir, the General Assembly will be on the agenda, and there's a number at work, and maybe the next year's report will be announced, but even if it's a year in the General Assembly, it won't be discussed. Therefore, we recommend that the reports sent to the commission be removed from the commission within 15 days and taken down to the General Assembly and discussed within a month in the General Assembly. Dear friends, the 24th article of the bill (2) and the second joke of the temporary article (4) are authorized to appoint from other institutions at the new Public Control Agency. And since this will lead to pleasure, we suggest that this be removed as well. Yes, public supervision is a successful system in many countries. We believe that if the amendments to the government's draft bill are made, the institution's functioning will be resolved, and the public auditing will really be a state based on human rights, but it is imperative that the activities of the Turkish Armed Forces, the practices of the prisons, be put under the supervision of the public auditor. He should also be a public auditor who also specializes in children's and women's rights, fighting discrimination, the use of public resources and corruption. If these are done and elected by the two-thirds majority of this supreme Assembly, we believe that it will succeed in preventing human rights violations and reforms, but in this case only in the European Union, we have an arrangement to call the European Union, which is independent and economically, the administration, the administration, the government, the government, the government, the government, the government, the government, and the government. I hope our amendment motions will be accepted, and as a healthy institution, the public audit agency will be restored to our country. With these feelings, I salute you all again with my sincerest wishes. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0142par0038	Thank you, Mr. Original. Batman MP Ayla Akat Ata on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0143par0042	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the BDP Group to discuss the general draft of Public Control Agency Act 276. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, with radical changes and transformations taking place on the world scale in the field of public administration, the inequality between those who govern and those who are ruled on the other hand is getting deeper and deeper. Therefore, the importance of protecting and developing the rights of those who benefit from the organization of public services is increasing day after day. In terms of public administration, more and more efforts to protect the public against the state are increasingly concentrated. These efforts and the desire for good governance in the functioning of the state have led to the global prevalence of public supervision or ombudsmanship. We can define public supervision as an institution that aims to protect individuals from rights violations, abuse of power, misjudgment and bad governance, to ensure more transparency in the functioning of the administration and to ask for more accounts from public employees. More than the powers of this institution, we can talk about some of its powers, its influence and dignity on society, but its overall powers. First of all, research authority is important. The authority to criticize the administration is the founding duty of the institution. Proposal of corrective measures may be considered one of the main tasks. Noting your data to the public is another of the powers that allow the ombudsman's organization to connect with the public. Public supervision is institutionalized through this framework, even if different powers and tasks are imposed on countries: Over 200 years of historical evolution of public supervision have produced many different methods of practice. There are particular types of ombudsmanry that vary, based on expertise. Ombudsmancies separated by this method can be more functional. In this context, we can talk about five kinds of ombudsman: The first can be referred to as, as,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,............. as....,............................................................................. This type of area is subject to public auditors who serve without limitation. The second species, which we refer to as special-purpose ombudsmansies, is a form of public supervision that focuses on singular space. There is a different institutionalisation for different working areas of the administration, such as police, prison ombudsmanships. It can also be a special-purpose public inspector for some of the communities. Ombudsmanship for children, women and elderly is one of our suggestions. It is also possible to be international or international ombudsmanism. Another species, which is increasingly common and is actually important, is the ombudsmanship of human rights. Finally, the special sector ombudsmanship is also structured. Dear lawmakers, we can also state the following basic issues in terms of the functions of public supervision: Citizens may not always be aware of the existence of their rights or of their violations. One of the main functions of democratic states is to teach its citizens its rights and its mechanisms for protecting them. The Public Control Agency is also important for its function. The fact that the administration is under control only in the context of administrative justice increases its potential to act contrary to universal law, especially in attitudes and actions. With this mechanism to be established, it will also be deterrent if management is known to be studied by public supervision, which will play the role of public conscience, as well as both operations and actions of the administration. Of course, the institution's reputation and efficiency must be high. In parallel with the deterrent effect, it may also be the healing function of public administration. The administration must examine itself in accordance with the principle of good governance. The job of contributing to the administrative judiciary also allows the administrative judiciary to become more active. With the authority to appeal to the administrative judiciary, it will prove that it will contribute more to the administrative judiciary. And finally, there's a function of transparency of governance, which is one of the most important issues for us. The task of public supervision to publicize research and data, which are essential to its function, will also lead to the transparency of the administration's functioning. Precious lawmakers, in our country, efforts for the establishment of the public audit unit have gone further, especially in the process of joining the European Union. Today, the state's field of activity is expanding, public administration discipline is becoming increasingly complicated. It is very important to create protective mechanisms to correct the problems of our citizens due to the process, action and attitude of governance. It is clear that such an institution will represent the public conscience and will make significant contributions to our country, not only to its actions and procedures, but to its attitudes and actions, not only to its legal grounds, but also to its rights. The Public Control Agency should be an institution that completes it, not an alternative to the administrative judiciary. Public auditing is an institution where modern and democratic governments live today and are required for human rights. The bill is far from leading the administration to act in accordance with the principles of universal law and internal law. This bill envisions a more limited, dysfunctional institution, the effect and the field of duty. Clearly, the influence of an organizational institution will remain on paper. This institution, which is not based on expertise, will have no serious impact. It is a serious lack of expertise to be predicted only by practice. The depth of social problems and healthy work can only be done by expertise. Like Sweden, in the country where this institution was first discovered, public supervision is found on the basis of expertise. This is the practice of public supervision in England and Germany. While drafting the bill, the opinion of non-governmental organisations who have been carelessly approached and pondered, focused, and giving ideas has not been removed, as AKP has always done. Furthermore, the proposal of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, which was applied to his opinion, was not taken seriously. In every study like this, when every bill comes to the agenda, it's a style that dominates the agenda of the General Assembly. There is no doubt that an institution of public supervision, whose independence and neutrality have not been fully established, will be for show. In this bill, these dots are not seriously highlighted, they are not edited with substances. The general reason for the bill is to evaluate Article 125 of the Constitution and make the administration's control more effective. In Article 125, the action and procedure of the administration are required to be in accordance with the law, but the event has been discussed. This should also be seen as an expression of the administration's insistence not to act in accordance with the law. In this way, a problemification is also mandatory to investigate the reasons why the administration should not act in accordance with the law. However, there has been no explanation for these reasons at the basis of the bill. The most important lack of the Public Control Agency's Bill is that TSK's military activities alone have been excluded from the institution's jurisdiction. A public conscience mission will cause the institution to lose its own dignity if it sees some of its activities outside of its jurisdiction. It is also unclear which activities of the Turkish Armed Forces have been left out of the institution's jurisdiction. This shows how superficial the alleged changes in Turkey's political field are. The ruling party boasts that it has removed military custody over politics at every opportunity from a double road opening to party congress. However, when it comes to changes with the law, as always, it reproduces it. We've seen this mentality in the audit of the budget for the TSK, and we've seen it again in the Bill of the Public Control Agency Law. Outside the administration, there is a demand to establish unlawful borders on public supervision, which should be neutral and independent. Some of the activities of an administrative unit are being left out of the jurisdiction of public supervision in a world that is hard to come by. I think it is well known to representatives of the ruling party that TSK is no different from other administrative units. Well, why? As the bill was drafted, the lower commission received an opinion from the authorities of the TSK and the Ministry of Defence. Given the reasons listed in these views, first of all, the problems with the administrative judiciary are not in the military judiciary. This comment has nothing to do with objectiveity. In fact, we would also like to have any victim suing the military judiciary express his views on this matter to our Commission. It's not that hard to guess. In addition, many problems have quickly been solved within the military's own mechanism. It is probably true that problems have been resolved quickly within this mechanism, but as to how problems are resolved, I think it's also the unpositive experiences of every citizen who's been forced to serve. Many lawsuits have been filed against Turkey in the European Court of Human Rights, and these cases have often resulted in the benefit of the victims. For example, the case of a citizen named Hasan Workerkan. The trial began after the death of our citizen during his military service. According to the investigations, authorities have ruled that the citizen committed suicide by firing a gun at himself. The court has first noted that a convincing investigation has not been carried out, considering the existence of a decision based on a thorough investigation, and it is not possible, in fact, to determine the location of the bullet that killed Hasan Eyşkan. In addition, the authorities who conducted the investigation did not react to contradictions in expert reports. The court has decided that the victim should be paid moral and financial compensation, considering the presence of such administrative negligence that prevents him from knowing for certain where the fatal bullet came from. Why is this important? Because in our country today, there are a number of suspicious military deaths in barracks, and you can appreciate that, because of the few of them, the victims, their families, are subject to trial. Again, it is highly discussed in our country that there are two different rules in the judiciary. It is still in memory that the military judiciary released the good children who bombed the people in Şemdinlı, even though the civil court had sentenced them to 39 years. In this case, how is it possible for a public conscience mission to view some of the activities of the Turkish Armed Forces outside their jurisdiction? What are these activities, and the answer to the question is vague? The expression is: How can non-compatible activities in other administrative institutions be used as a concrete measure, such as firing, maneuvering, training, seizure, and other administrative institutions? Will the nation's massacre be viewed as military-based activity and seen outside the jurisdiction of public supervision? After all, other administrative institutions cannot carry out such an action. What is the need to establish public supervision if it is not to investigate such an event that has brought such a public conscience to such an end? How will public supervision become a public conscience if there are thousands of people who have been violated during activities such as single-handed training, shooting, seizures? There is no other explanation for the emphasis of TSK's non-instrumental properties than the militant mentality we're talking about. Public auditing, of course, takes its dignity and influence from the moral power it creates in public opinion, does not cancel administrative procedures, does not condemn management to pay compensation, and cannot give the administration orders about anything. Thus, failing to comply with public supervision's decisions will not leave administration and public officials with legal and criminal responsibility. This is universally acceptable, but it shouldn't prevent the institution from applying to administrative justice at an institutional level. In addition, when we study world examples, we see that developed countries have the right to sue similar institutions against laws dating out of their parliaments, even in violation of the constitution. The application to the administrative judiciary by public supervision will also provide a new opportunity to address the victims of citizens. This will also increase the activity of the institution, because this task and authority will highlight the seriousness of the institution. What will this institution mean if it does not have dignity and dignity? What will be the point of this institution if our people can't apply freely to it, if they can't be sure of its activity? It is generally accepted that judicial decisions are seen outside the scope of public supervision. However, the disciplinary measures issued during the execution should be made clear that they are excluded from this scope. It is undisputed fact that the administration is acting in a more comfortable, illegal area, especially out of the public eye. At the beginning of these areas, prisons come. The assessment of disciplinary sentences for convicted and imprisoned persons within the scope of decisions on the use of judicial authority will have a very serious negative impact on the agency's field of duty. Not every decision made by the courts is about the use of a judge. As a matter of fact, the evaluation of disciplinary sentences is not a matter of trial. The higher objection to disciplinary sentences given to prisoners and prisoners is, as it is known, severe criminal courts. In these parts, the finality of punishment should not mean that there is a judicial process. It's also clear that disciplinary sentences are, in essence, an administrative procedure. Therefore, it should be discussed under administrative decisions, not judicial ones, and this should be made clear. This area should be expressed with no exception to the comment that it has entered the field of the Public Control Agency. In Batman Type M Prison, Sultan Charlman was sentenced to solitary confinement for a fax he sent me. In this fax, it is clear that the negligence of public officials was involved in sexual relations with a citizen who was working outside the prison, who was on a mission to the prison. However, for this reason, he has been given an administrative punishment for the fax he sent me, solitary punishment. The appeal against that, of course, will be audited by the criminal court, it will be a matter of trial, and we, on this occasion, declare that the public inspector cannot enter this area. The most serious areas are prisons, of course, barracks. In these areas, a public auditor's activity must first be involved. Dear lawmakers, it is clear that the opinion and proposal of disciplinary sentences in this area will increase the institution's public conscience. Otherwise, the institution will have trouble achieving its goal. If disciplinary sentences in prisons leading to the most rights violations are to be excluded from the institution's mandate, it should discuss how this institution can play the desired role. The other flaw in the bill, which we find important, is the candidacy of the chief and auditors. It will allow women to take more positions in public institutions and institutions as part of positive discrimination in the institution where 1 chief and 5 supervisors will take office. It is important that women remain in an important social mission such as the Public Control Agency. The presence of women will also have a positive effect on the functioning of the institution. It is clear that women's employment in our country is very low. Especially in politics and again, there's no question how low the female rate in bureaucracy is. For example, women's participation in the judiciary are: 75.7 per cent of judges and prosecutors across Turkey are men and 24.3 per cent of women -- according to data in 2011. Therefore, the legal provisions must be carried out in favour of women. Article 10 of the Constitution shall be the basis of such practices. The amendment motion for this arrangement in the commission talks has been submitted by our side, but is not approved. Mr. Burhan Lamb, however, voted on this occasion, saying: "We want all three of them to be women and all three of the recommended candidates to be women." On this occasion, he voted, but he didn't vote. I'd like to point that out. Every change in the woman's favor is blocked, but they also claim that their own parties are the most concerned with women's problems. At least they have to give up that claim. As usual, their claims are just words, but in concrete steps, they do nothing. The Public Control Agency, in its current form, will not be able to go beyond being an institution for show. The AKP, as usual, throws the ball to the crown in important cases. It only brings up this institution to say "I built it." Otherwise, the AKP has nothing to do with its actual mission of public supervision. The actual mission, however, is that we can't ignore over two hundred years of time since the Swedish establishment, where the presence of this auditory institution is at stake. Today, it is clear that the establishment of this institution does not serve the purpose of us to institutionalize this institution by employing one chief auditor, five auditors during a period of expertise on the agenda of the entire world. I salute you again.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0144par0083	Thank you, Mr. Akat. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Congressman Faruk Bal. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0145par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have been promised to present the views of the Nationalist Action Party on the Bill of the Public Control Agency Act. I salute the grand jury. I'd like to share my thoughts with you by taking a slightly different view of the law of the Public Control Agency, which came to us as an ombudsman, which affected our law in some way, but, in essence, belongs to us. An institution in which Ottoman civilization has established a relationship between its rulers and its rulers in accordance with the principles of rights, law and rights, so that the King of Sweden may not be wronged, that he may study, learn, benefit from the Ottoman asylum period, and return to his own territory in 1997, after traveling through the laws of the European countries for about three centuries. My dear friends, in this historic process, I would like to share with you the place of the law, or the law, which is defined by the name of the public auditory. There are always problems between those who rule and those who rule. To assume that this problem is gone... in the process of humanity -- like, no problem -- there is no problem in a field where it needs principles, laws and rules, there will be no problem, there will be no problem. Here, the law states have studied this in three different ways: the first has created a constitutional court to limit the influence of law enforcement, its power; second, administrative mechanisms have been formed to oversee the illegal work and transactions of power; third, general courts have been established to address the problems of individuals among themselves and the legal issues of governance with citizens within the legal concept. This means that power is controlled by law, and that's why we're getting what we call the rule of law, the state of law. Here, what we need to focus on with this bill is the concept of limiting power. In the state of the law, the democratic states, which have carried out the constraint of power through the judiciary, have also established a system that gives the rule of law, not to the elite, by limiting its power with the mechanisms of balance. Here's the concept of public managership, a way in which citizens can be protected against the power and power of state in areas that can't be obtained by this, and a way that the state can say, "I'm sorry. I've done wrong, I've done wrong, I've done wrong, I've done wrong, I've done wrong, I'm sorry. As of this point, in modern legal systems, ombudsman is now as respected as the judicial system, as valuable as the judicial system. Now, we need to make a law that applies to its value and its importance. Since we have the real idea of this, since it's in our civilization, in our culture, then we have to bring the state to a point where we can say, "I've done wrong" in the problems of its citizens in the state by building concepts such as civilization and culture. Now, that's what's important about this law, but that's what's most important about it. My dear friends, on the name of the law, public supervision. Turkey will do it on behalf of the Grand National Assembly. Who's he gonna do it for? He'll do it to seek the rights of the citizen, his law. Against what? He will supervise the general administration authorities to examine complaints about services offered to citizens in general administration services. What else? He'll supervise the local authorities. What else? He will oversee every institution and institution with the power and capital of the state. If so, the control mechanism is a recognised right to opposition in democratic countries, and there is no such thing as self-control by the authorities. If there's an inspection, it's already in the general administration or in the local administration. Internal audits, external audits, inspection boards, etcetera, these are all audits. If the administration's gonna supervise itself, it's gonna have to be that way. However, if we are creating a public auditor under the control and supervision of the Grand National Assembly, which is on behalf of the citizens, then there must be a law within the voice and breath of the opposition. A public audit, which the opposition is excluded from, which is not considered by the opposition, is not by public supervision, but by a new staff where the work of the government is cleared, and by a new establishment, a new mandate means a lack of staff for new appointees. Now, when we look at this law, my dear friends, it's wrong of the first essence. According to this, three candidates will be presented to the General Assembly at the end of the joint meeting of the Council of Human Rights and Human Rights Commission, which we call the Commission for Karma for the head of state, for the supervisor and inspector. How will that be determined? With the majority of the MPs there. The majority of the MPs here is the majority of the ruling party's votes. If the opposition catches a bird with its mouth, then no candidate he offers will be respected. Then the three candidates the ruling party recommended will come here, with the implementation of a show-of-the-art Constitution decree, and the first three-thirds of a majority, if not three-quarters of a majority, if not the only majority, and if not, with one more vote of those who come, the head of Public Control will be elected, and the auditors will be elected this way. My dear friends, the natural consequence of such an election is that the ruling party makes the person it wants to be a supervisor, to make the person it wants to be a supervisor. The fact that the ruling party wants the person appointed as supervisor and supervisor means that there is no public supervision. Because we see in the moving materials, in the moving materials -- valued lawmakers, pay attention here -- the law is designed in such a special way that it can be elected twice. If he's elected twice, he'll put the election in his head for the second time. What will be the second choice? Under the law in hand, the ruling party will be elected by majority. Then can the chief and supervisors place their hand in matters that have touched the Zulfuyu of power? So he can do the audit? No, he can't. Suppose he can't be elected, and if he can't be elected, he'll be assigned to a chief and auditory public office. Who will make this appointment? The authorities will do it. Who is the administration office? It's the political will that elects him to be a supervisor and a chief executive and doesn't choose a second time. So it's a natural conclusion that here, if not elected, the supervisor does not engage in issues that affect the future of power's Zulfuyu in order not to risk its future in public administration if it can't be elected. My dear friends, thirdly, there have been no criteria for the selection of the chief inspectors and auditors. Chief inspectors and auditors need to be competent people, intelligent people, decent people. Chief inspectors and auditors need to understand the state of the citizen. Chief inspectors and auditors need to know the state's functioning, and within that scope, he needs to be able to provide a rational way to overcome the rights, the unlawfulness of the state that serves his citizen, as he understands the state of the complainant who is being audited in his name. However, it is not in this law that the qualifications for the driving, the integrity, the intellect. It is because the election has already given power ease, and therefore it has the right to make one person head of everyone with an unwritten, undetermined election to provide the election, and that is the right that the ruling party can use in line with its political goals. My dear friends, another problem is about pensions that eliminate their neutrality and independence, related to the chief inspector and auditors. If the head inspector and supervisor are not elected for a retirement age, then his services as a supervisor and supervisor are unable to maintain his independence and neutrality until he gains the right to retire. So, we've done a lot of work to get rid of all of this. The comprehensive work we do is to redesign the Society of Public Control, in accordance with the power of the ruling party, in accordance with the power of the opposition parties. According to this design, both the commission and a qualified majority of the general council to ensure the participation of the opposition in the control mechanism at a Public Control Agency, and the choice of the ruling party to give up the labyrinthways to choose the man they want; as a suggestion, the choice of the RTÜK members, there is a certain amount of consolidation to the political party groups. This is one of the ideas that the opposition should be part of the audit. We'll give you a detailed motion to look for a qualified majority in the Commission and the General Assembly, then I'll tell you when it's in place. On the other hand, in order to ensure the independence and neutrality of auditors and supervisors against power, they need to be raised above the age level in order to make a choice that matches the qualities of a sane man, a licensed, a competent person. So if we say fifty-five, fifty for the supervisor, and add twenty years of public service in the past, then the chief and supervisor will be people who have reached retirement age after they've performed their first term duties. If they are unable to face a problem and retire, then the government has enough money to pay a pension to the people it offers a reputationable service by giving five citizens the job of auditors and chief executives. Therefore, we must not condemn them to the reassignment of power, to the search for staff in order to serve in public. With a second vote, we must not allow auditors and supervisors to stand hand-to-hand in order to ensure the majority of votes in the ruling political lobby. Because they will strive to achieve the most precious law of the citizen, justice, and justice. The fact that people who strive for these sacred and holy concepts walk through the gates of political party groups in order to get themselves elected is not incompatible with their actions, especially with the important task of upholding the law of the citizens while they are doing the audit on behalf of the public. My dear friends, the fourth thing is that this law gives the chief justice all kinds of duties and authority, and it makes every business a manager. And under it, the auditors do all sorts of work, according to what he does, according to what he does. It gives all kinds of powers, and this law creates a superman like Superman, a magical man with a magic wand, a man who does everything. There is no such man, God willing, did not create such a man. Why are we giving such a task to such a creature if he didn't create it? Turkey -- its population is close to 80 million -- to Hakkari in the southeast, to the northeast, to the east, to the Iğdır (Iğdır) and to the south, to the south, to a much larger demographic structure, a far different demographic structure, a very different, deep, and wide problem, as a result. How can there be a supervisor, a supervisor, who can solve all these problems? It's against the nature of things. It's a waste of my mind to think about it. Well, then, in our culture and civilization, there's an institution that we value very much: pleasure, consultation. Why are we giving this up? Let's make the auditors a board, and in the name of this, it'll be called the board of inspectors, or the board of inspectors. The problems here will be mutually discussed, negotiated, shared mind, collective will, control of the public administration. Individually, five auditors may be correct in their own mind and view of the world, and it may be wrong in another person's view. So this control system, based on individuality, is going to cause us a fundamental problem that we're going to be dealing with tomorrow, which is the copyright of the auditors' control decisions that contradict each other or contradict each other. This isn't the Supreme Court. Let's put the toast together. That's out of the question. Then you're right, citizen, the state has done wrong. There's no supervisor in the other place, but the state has done right, and the citizen's complaint is wrong. Which one is it? My dear friends, come, let's act wisely. We say all this not to get political results, but to serve justice, justice, justice. My dear friends, in order to obtain collective will within this scope -- the chief's will, of course, whether it be the will, of course, the executive authority, of course, the authority to represent the institution, but -- let's create an organ that can prevent the failures of a supervisor, in order to facilitate his services. My dear friends, there's a lot of other issues here, but here's the thing: inspections are being done. They write reports once a year, inspectors. The headmistress writes as an individual, writes. How does the public know about this? He needs to be published so he can have information. What happens when it's published? Citizens, if the state has done well, the state trusts the state. If the government is right, the state has done wrong. If a result comes out, the state institutions will rectify themselves so that I will not do wrong again. Even if the state has wronged me, there is an institution that protects my right, the public administration, this institution has protected my right. How do we do that? With the release of the audit results. There's no publication in this law. Then what? He's going to play. He's going to play. He's going to play. What's the use of who? What you do to a citizen is right or wrong, two lines of writing because you've done wrong or right to the government. That means we're destroying a mechanism of our own that can make relationships positive between the ruler and the ruler fit in with justice, justice, justice. Why are we doing this? He says we don't have that much luxury, and he thinks we'll share our thoughts in detail with our proposals later on, and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0146par0106	Thank you, Mr. Honey. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Yehia Akman of Şanlıurfa. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0147par0110	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the bill of Public Controllership Act 276. I hereby salute your high council. First of all, I hope this new institution will be a blessing for our country, for our country. We're talking about a bill that we've been talking about for many years, which has been officially on the agenda of the Republic of Turkey for about 15 years, which has been sent to parliament in 2000 as a bill, which has been transferred to parliament as a bill, and in the next two years, but has been transferred to parliament as a bill, but the President's veto, and the Constitutional Court's cancellation resolutions, we can't agree on until today. It's just been expressed. We're talking about an institution that has roots in this land, that's been trying to get back to its birthplace for a while, to travel Europe, to travel around the world. It's an institution that's basically in our country now with different versions, traditionally. So if we're taking the problems that we believe will be solved by intelligent people before we go to court, if we're listening to their advice, their advice, and our peace, that's a bigger version of it, a more formal version of it. We're talking about a country-wide institution that will operate on the whole country's sath. In that sense, I think we are no stranger to this institution. With the modern version, we re-accept this establishment. What we call the modern version, the world has come a long way in this time envelope, and when we call it human rights, different things are understood now. Democraticisation, modernisation, many common values that the world accepts, will serve this establishment in connection with the concepts of rights, law, justice. So, to put it simply, how does this institution work? When our citizens file complaints against public administration, which is a strong public administration through the Internet, they will report their complaints directly to this institution or the districts and districts through the governorships. Once this agency has received these complaints, it will gather information from the relevant institutions, listen to the witness when necessary, listen to the expert when necessary, but the amount of time that he has under that law will make his decision within a time envelope for about six months. We call this decision "the important thing," so it will offer suggestions to the administration. One of your rulers, or part of them, has done something wrong about this, and that's the way it is. He will say, "This is what he has done wrong." He will submit these suggestions to the administration. In a month's time, the administration will respond to this proposal, respond to it, and give an answer to whether or not it fits. And what will be the result of that? So what's going to happen is that there's no sanction, there's no sanction in this law, but the person that we're going to choose, especially his charisma, his dignity, his personality, his authority, his knowledge, his dignity, and the public support he's going to have behind him, public support, media support, he's going to try to get that job, in the direction that the proposal itself says, accepted by the public administration, so he's going to try to do it with some kind of public pressure. When I give examples, I usually give the following example, especially to the AK PARTY governments, as you know, we had a National Security Board. It exists now, its structure has been altered, it's more civilized. At one time, the Constitution of 1982 says that this Council of Ministers of the National Security Board has made recommendations, or recommendations to the Council of Ministers, to the administration, to the administration, but what advice are they that these recommendations are accepted as an order, and they are applied. Now, we, to be honest, desire and await that the proposals of this man, who, in the name of the people, is to do the work for the weak, the weak, the weak, the people, will do the work for the people, will be like those of the National Security Council recommendations we've been talking about. And for that, I believe, in all public opinion, that we should support this establishment as a whole of Parliament. Of course, there are several auditing agencies; there are three commissions in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that serve as audits; there are even four newly established commissions such as the Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission, the Proposal Commission, the Human Rights Commission, the OSCE Commission. Sir, there's the Prime Minister's Investigation Board, there's the State Control Board, there's the human rights board, there's the Ethics Council, as many as you can count. Is this institution going to do business in all of this? He'll do it for me, as long as we believe in it and support it. It should be in a modern state, where some of the world's more than 100 states accept it today, and some of its examples are very successful, especially in Scandinavian countries -- we need to get this institution back to our hometown, and we need to make it healthy. I just said, the serence of this is very old. In their five-year development plan, they were always designed to build such an establishment. The European Union's acquisition later envisions the establishment of this institution almost every year as a reminder to Turkey. And so we finally, probably, wish that we would not be extradited from the President, not cancelled by the Constitutional Court, because in 2010, as you know, we had to write about the change in the 74th Amendment that we had made. In spite of what? Despite such views by many other constitutional lawmakers who are not in parliament, unfortunately, due to the qualitative approach of that day's Constitutional Court, you must write everything down to the Constitution. Due to the understanding that we have to accept this institution today as a long delay, but because it is constitutional basis, we believe that it will no longer be returned to our life.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0148par0118	Burhan Lamb is a judge? Is Burhan Lamb deciding on behalf of the courts?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0147par0119	So, what are the benefits of this establishment? It's going to lead to this: you know, especially when it comes to issues involving administrative jurisdictions, our people want something that's more practical, easier, that can be solved sooner. Here, this authority will be a public inspector. So here's the petition, the petition, the answer to the petition, the receptacle, the way the law calls it, the amount of time these petitions take, the workload of the courts, the differences in the way the courts collect evidence and so on, and so on, because we believe that this is an institution that can work faster than the judiciary, we also believe that it will ease the burden of judgment. Of course, dear friends, I have two or three points to emphasize about this establishment, and I'd like to share it with you. I want to talk about a definition that was first introduced to our legal life in Turkey. The administration's actions and procedures are already under judicial supervision under the Constitution, but this time, we said to the bill last term, as we added in Parliament, that the administration, of course, should also be controlled by the administration's attitude and behavior. Where was this needed from? Because most of the time, you're witnessing that the procedure and actions of the administration in the formal sense are not against the law, but the citizen is suffering a great deal, suffering from the functioning of the administration. For example, I'm a lawyer myself, many of my fellow lawyers know that our courts, our judges, determine the day of trial, and a list is put on the door by the bailiff. There are 30 or 40 hearings that day, all at 9:00 p.m. Well, don't those lawyer friends of yours, the plaintiff, the defendant, have anything else to do? So from nine o'clock to sometimes five o'clock, until six o'clock or later, you can't predict what the time of the hearing is. So, is this a judicial activity? When you complain about it, it's not in any law, it's a matter of appreciation. Well, that's a matter for public supervision. Our citizen went to court, and when he went to court, the judge gave a reprimand, to the plaintiff, to the defendant, to the lawyer. It's not an insult or an insult, but it's actually a demoralizing attitude and behavior that can even mean "rey" from time to time. Is this a judicial decision? No. Today, in this modern version, we're simply excluding judicial decisions, decisions of the judiciary, judicial decisions, the kind of attitudes and actions that are made by people in the organization, the institution, the people in the organization, and if they are executed, we're putting that within the public inspector's field of duty. In other words, today, our friends in military matters alone have been critical. In my opinion, for example, it is not just military activity and action that a commanding officer may take on the duty of a private or private officer in front of the battalion. Dear friends, there's been a lot of talk about the system, and we can tell you a lot about it. The system we accept is the parliamentary ombudsmanship, the Parliamentary institution we call it, but we're building an institution that can work solely for Parliament in terms of its budget, in terms of its work, in terms of all other issues, completely independent of justice, law and execution. Why the parliamentary ombudsman? In some countries, there are presidents, ministers, different examples. We, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, take this place as the highest authority in politics, where the will of the people is represented, and I speak of politics in a clear sense. Our friends have almost stated here that the election of the Foundation is being held in Parliament, as if this institution is becoming political. It's not the right understanding, so there's no higher authority than Congress. It is the right system to be elected by the Parliament and chosen by a qualified majority as a priority. I'd like to respond to this review here at the same time. There's no other alternative. Our friends said, "Let him be chosen for the most part. " When you select a qualified majority, friends, when you search for two thirds of the House, it is possible that the Assembly will always be able to live with the failure to elect the President, who was even the motive for the coup of 12 September. In that sense, even though the presidency is the highest office, it is necessary and correct to bring it to him in public supervision, since we gradually brought him two-thirds of the population, two-thirds of the population, then two-thirds of the majority system. Dear friends, of course, when we discussed this institution, we made some nice additions to the Commission, and I'd like to briefly mention them: One of the things we've done in Article 10 is we've decided that, preferably, people who have graduated from law, political, economic, and so forth from law schools are preferential auditors and supervisors. There was uncertainty in Article 11 concerning the auditors who would be elected especially in the mixed commission, and we corrected it. So we set up a subcommittee for those who applied there, narrowed it down to three, then narrowed it down to one on the karma commission. Again, in article 14 of the 14th article -- in view of the objection of our friends in the court -- we also justified it -- there was a ruling on the matter of a maximum three-month salary, after the duty of the public inspector and chief prosecutor was over, and we removed this from the government's bill. We made some significant changes in the 17th article, and what was that? It's very important for an institution that will conduct this kind of audit if the applicant demands it. We have also allowed foreigners to apply here with passport numbers and, in some cases, it is difficult and impossible to compensate for, if administrative applications are not exhausted, to consider such applications. In Article 22 of the article 22 of the Parliament and the Commission, that is, you know, the chief of staff... you know, he answers in six months. The institution responds within a month after calling it. After calling it the head of this institution, it will also present a report to the Dilek and Human Rights Commission, which has been established once a year within the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as it can share with the public some of the issues it wants when it wants to, with its own opinion. We've limited these commission talks to two months, and it's imperative that this matter be discussed in the General Assembly, shared with the public... because it was necessary, it was necessary, it was necessary, it was necessary to establish a contact with the Parliament, since it was taken from the public by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and it was taken from the people. There's been talks here about residency ombudsmanships. There are countries around the world that embrace residency, and ours was a different system. We had given five other auditors the opportunity to determine the field of duty under the director's regulations, but today, in particular, they gave a motion that a supervisor of women and children would serve, adding an exceptional joke at the request of our women's MPs, especially at the request of our Ministry of Family and Social Policy. We're familiar with that exception, but in general, we've left this share of duty to the chief of staff. Our friends have expressed the possibility of applying for administrative action. We didn't think that was true. They also said to be audited on the verdicts of execution by the judges, which means that this should be under control. Since this was a judicial decision, we also opposed it, thinking it was contrary to the general principle of the Constitution. There have been objections to the oath. Friends have seen it in the bill, especially after criticism of the parliamentary oath, I personally think it is very accurate, accurate and modern that the supervisors and auditors who will be elected to serve as supervisors will swear in a very simple, clear, one-word text. Although our friends have stated that he has been elected to the House, as you know, this auditor and the chief executive's mandate has been four years. After four years, these will be renewed, and they will only be chosen once more. But our friends say: "When the term of the assembly is over, let them also be renewed. " This means that, at this point, this work will be fully indexed to Parliament, which is not the right thing to do. So I think it's only fair that he served four years if he was elected to an audit agency for four years. In six months, the application failed, so it was nullified. They meant something like that. I responded to that in the Commission. That's not the right approach, my dear friends, because when we do, it's like we're trying to squeeze the chief justice here, but we're also talking about finding a right here. I mean, people have applied for a right to a right, and they want it to come to a conclusion. And just when the process is at a certain stage, six months are over, so I can't look at it from now on. When you say, "I can't look at it," you're victimizing that person, because after six months, that person has the right to appeal to the judiciary if he can get into the jurisdiction, but you've been there for six months, and then you're making a case against the citizen, in some way, in some way, in order to get the judge involved. Dear friends, I'm one of the people who's worked the most on this bill in Turkey, if I may say so myself. I can tell you this for an hour, and I can tell you for two hours, but I tried to explain it to you in a very quick summary. I haven't been able to respond to all the criticisms of the opposition friends, but I have to say, this state-of-the-art version of the agency that we agreed to today is a very modern version, a very beautiful version. If we support it, if we don't show moral support, the chief justice who took the support of Parliament behind him, especially when he was chosen for a qualified majority, in my opinion, would be a mechanism that would support him at a point where many poor poor people can't raise the voice of a strange guru, and he can't seek his rights. I wish you the best for our country and for our nation. Hopefully, it'll be an institution born on solid feet. As I said, the charisma, personality, maturity, education of the chosen person will also be an important sign of how healthy this institution will work. I thank you all so much for listening to me patiently. Again, I pray to God that this institution is a blessing for our nation, for our country. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0149par0145	Thank you, Mr. Akman. The first word for the individuals is Mr. Mihrimah Belma, the Istanbul MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Row.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0150par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath to express my opinion on the Bill of the Office of Public Controllers 276 rows in which we are meeting. I salute your high council. Members of parliament, the need for public administration to be restructured in parallel with change and developments in the world and in our country continues to increase day by day. Therefore, it is agreed that a reevaluation of state duties related to public services and a sense of governance that will minimize public complaints stemming from management. Based on this assessment, the Project for Increasement in Public Service in the Seventh Five Year Development Plan was brought to the agenda. Studies have been conducted to effectively and quickly resolve conflicts in management-personal relationships. In view of the fact that the judiciary adheres to strict rules of conduct and long-term reasonings, a control system has been determined to oversee the administration outside the judiciary, but not to the administration. For this reason, a public auditor who deals with public complaints among the European Union and many other member states has been envisioned the establishment of the ombudsman system in Turkey. The 8th Annual Development Plan also states that in order to improve the activity in public services, a public audit system that manages management on issues of public complaints is expected to be established, and that the system will be focused on establishing the necessary infrastructure and covering all administrative transactions and actions without exception. Dear lawmakers were appointed as special envoys, or judges, to examine the public's complaints against the administration, due to the lack of administrative judicial system in the Ottoman State. They provided effective supervision, including the king, by considering public applications against the administration's procedures, actions and attitudes. King XII of Sweden. Charles studied this institution in the early 18th century, where he was in the Ottoman Empire, and when he returned to his country, he created it under the name of fuckombudsman, which inspired other European countries to form the ombudsman institution. Today, this institution serves as part of the country, region, city or sector in more than a hundred states, including France, Britain, Italy, Spain and India. It also established the ombudsman institution to protect the rights of member citizens of the country against wrong practices by the European Union and the European Union's bureaucracy. In Swedish, the word "ombudsman" is referred to as "the person authorized to act on behalf of others and to protect their rights." As an institution, the ombudsman is today expressing those or persons elected by parliament to oversee the administration on behalf of parliament. In Turkish for the word "Ombudsman" (also known as "Ombudsman") the expression is used in Turkish as the word "people's inspector" (also known as "The People's Watcher"), "The People's Watcher" (also known as "The People's Lawyer"), "The People's Lawyer" (also known as "The People's Watcher"). Mr. President, it has been stated by the representatives of the Ministry of the European Union that the European Union will establish a functional state auditory institution under the implementation of political criteria in Turkey's National Programme for the Advention of the Year 2008, as well as the lack of ombudsmanship in progress reports prepared by the European Commission, as a measure of establishing a public audit agency under the section of rights and basic rights. The public auditory institution serves as of the country, the region, the city or sector in the nearly 100 countries already among the countries of the European Union. Mr. President, the legal and political process regarding the matter we are discussing in our internal law has been stated: The Law Bill of the Public Control Agency, which was drafted earlier, was adopted as Act No. 15 June 2006 and 5521, but was not properly published by the President, and was sent back to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on July 1, 2006, in accordance with Articles 3, 4, 9, 11, 13, 15, 22, 26, 26, 30, 33, 33, 33, and Articles of the Constitution. The Law was adopted on 28/9/2006 as Law No. 5548, and published on 13/10/2006 in the Official Gazette 26318. However, on the application, the Constitutional Court halted the act of the Law, halted the interim Article 1st, which envisioned the establishment of the Public Control Agency, and, in accordance with the decision dated 25/12/2008, annulled all of the Constitutional Court by violating Articles 6/7, 87, and 123. The decision was issued on 4/4/2009 in the Official Gazette No. 127190. The Constitutional Court's decision to annul the Constitutional Court's amendments to Article 5982 of the Constitution on some Articles of the Republic of Turkey has been made under amendments to Article 8 of the Article 74 of the Constitution, and the establishment of the Public Control Agency, which will be established in accordance with the Constitutional Assembly of Turkey, its mandate, its work and its study, and its qualifications and the attributes of public auditors and its rights shall be regulated by law. The amendment was adopted during a public vote on 12/9/2010, and the final results came into effect when it was published in the Official Gazette 27708, dated 23/9/2010. Dear lawmakers, with this bill, the principles regarding the establishment, duty and working procedures of the Public Control Agency include the qualifications, elections, autonomy rights and provisions related to the institutions' personnel. Its neutrality, independence, independence, lack of orders and instructions, the duties it will carry out, including the fact that it has the authority to ask for all information and documents, and the powers that are recognised for these tasks, are expected to be subject to the institution's public corporate personality, its commitment to the chairmanship of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and its special budget. It is stated that the institution will consist of chief of staff and general secretary and other staff, with 1 chief of staff and 5 supervisors. The institution's headquarters is considered to be in Ankara, and it is allowed to open offices where the institution sees fit, depending on the incoming work density or the nature of the job. The institution is tasked to study, investigate, and make suggestions about complaints made concerning the poor, incomplete or wrong functioning of the administration. All actions and actions of the administration and attitudes and actions are expected to enter the institution's field of duty. The agency's reviews and evaluations must be done in a sense of justice based on human rights, in accordance with law and justice. In order to ensure the independence, neutrality, and dignity of the institution, arrangements are provided for the chief and auditors to act independently in order to carry out their duties as they should. This law states that the actions of the President alone and the decisions and orders he signed, the procedures concerning the use of law enforcement authority, the decisions on the use of judicial authority, and the Turkish Armed Forces' military activities are only outside the institution's jurisdiction. I wish our nation the best of this law, which I think will play a very important role in the process of the European Union and our goal of forward democracy, and I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0151par0167	Thank you, Mr. Row. Mr. Secretary, are you going to speak first or the Commissioner?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0152par0169	The Commissioner will speak.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0151par0170	Our commissioner, Mr. Burhan Lamb... [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0153par0173	My esteemed President, my fellow MPs, our esteemed Subcommittee of the Subcommittee and Commissioner John Akman, I didn't want to take any credit for my person and talk after what he said, but I said, "Let him stay on the record." But I couldn't stop, so I wanted to say a few words. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0154par0175	Has he learned your lesson, Hajji? Did he learn his lesson in time?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0153par0176	It's finally on the record at the end of ten years. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0154par0177	Did you teach him, Mr. Hodja?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0153par0178	No, I've never had a pre-interview. Dear friends, we're bringing in a new institution. In fact, there are many institutions in Turkey's human rights field. Perhaps the arrival of this institution will lead to conflict in some new areas, and there are objections, but there are countries that choose this path. So not only is there an institution, but there are countries that bring many institutions into the same area. That's right, that kind of trouble can happen in practice, but we chose that path, we keep it going. So we call it the public inspector, what did other countries call it? When we look at it, they've replaced it in 2008, as the public referee, the deputy commissioner of Parlamento, and the inspector of Parlamento, who was found by France. In Sweden, more in northern countries, there are these words that are spoken in Canada, such as the protector of the yurtstones. Socialist countries, when we look at communist model countries, have sort of given it to prosecutors, and they use a term called procuratura. Well, the bond of this institution in history -- in fact, it was explained here, Mr. Bal said -- that as well as Mr. Akman as originally stated -- was the foundation of what we call the Ottomans and the Court of Mezalim, actually King of Sweden, Demirbaş Sharl, XII. Charles is an institution he sent to Sweden in the event that he remained in our country in 1709-1714. In a doctoral thesis -- just to be clear -- I gave a doctoral thesis that I was consulting with my dear friends -- that when he wrote that this was Ottoman, the members of the Commission had brought about the apocalypse, dear friends. They said the Ottomans had nothing else to do but find the ombudsman? Where's the Ottoman in such a condescending expression and in that thesis, they had to remove that chapter of the text over the objection, and they said, "We'll let you go anyway." When I finally printed it, I said again, "You're going to write it here." Now look, after that, I've been to these meetings in Turkey and abroad five times -- Mr. Akman was found in most of them as the President of the Proposal Commission -- at international ombudsman meetings. Believe me, they all unanimously argued that it was Ottoman origin, and it was an amazing thing -- of course -- and I find it hard for a scientist to accept such complexes. Dear friends, what we call the ombudsman's institution, public auditing, usually in small countries, the population of the country, not too much land, but more in countries that have accepted the unity of the judiciary. When you look at it this way, our country doesn't seem very appropriate in terms of the ombudsman institution, but when we look at France, the model of France is very similar to us. They run it as an intermediary. I suppose that's what we think it'll do in our country. There are big countries, there are Canadians, there are English ones, so we can think of them as examples. The Council of Europe has made a recommendation on this issue, 1975. He said to countries, member states, 48 countries: build such an institution in your country, which is good for human rights. We can say that this institution is present in the country that is close to 130. So, how does the institution move around the world? He's acting on a complaint the way we agreed. But when we look at other countries, as well as the complaint, the resen, the institutional authorities themselves, are able to take the matter into their own hands, but we don't take it very well, which is common for them to work on complaints. This is not a judicial institution when we look at the work of an Ombudsman. His decisions have no effect on forcing him out of reason, no binding, just to the parties, to identify, that's the situation. He's a referee who says, "This is the situation." He doesn't have the authority to correct it directly. Well, then you, all of us, of course, will come to mind: Since the decision made by direct management has not been changed, where is the effect, since the decision is not binding? The effect is that this institution, dear friends, has made decisions that have been publicly published. At the end of this release, that painting, which the person who was in that institution -- I'm telling you in public -- may be a lesson to other institutions of management. In that sense, we care about the institution. Of course, there's more to it than that. Like what? His reports are annual. Parliament will act, Parliament will see shortcomings, it will have to make new legal arrangements in that area. Of course, what's the target? The goal is, can we take the long judicial process the short way? Judgement, you know, is a process, no matter how fast it is, it's not easy. So we're all trying to see if we can get the rights in a shorter way, that's all of our efforts, that's why the institution has come, and the world has made a serious attack on this, especially in 1982, and then we see that the institutions are already increasing. The title of a council gathered in Italy is: ▪ Non-judgmental instruments in the protection and development of human rights:: ίOmbudsmanship is the title of the issue, and at the end of the long discussions, the institution has been decided to be established in all European Community countries. According to the Maastricht Agreement, the establishment of such an institution (e) was mandatory, and since 94 a European ombudsman has been working on it. So, who's applying here? Either the person himself or one of the parliamentarians can apply for an application. Okay, what ombudsman-related countries have kept in the scope of ombudsman or how does it work? Now, in some, it's the only ombudsman, in some people, that's the general practice that we prefer or apply, but some do it in the sector. For example, when you look at it in England, there are ombudsmans in various areas, such as health, court, and local areas. This is the model of England. He's done this job in the province of France, and he's done it in every county, so there's a lot of different versions of this, in terms of practice. So, what skills are the countries looking for in the ombudsman? Let's count this: independent, neutral, honest, reliable, discreet, public responsibility. Of course, that much good can be found together? We're going to try to find him, and even if not all of them, we're going to force certain parts of him to happen, of course. When we looked at the field of duty: the field of duty was referred to here. In the field of duty, dear friends, two countries lead: Sweden and Finland, the oldest two, already. These two, including the jurisdictions, I don't mean of course, but they kept all of them in the field of examination, including a significant portion of their jurisdiction, including the entire military area, but when we look at other countries, the jurisdiction and military areas are often excluded. So we've left out the jurisdictions, and we've kept the military area out of control, and the rest will be in control. Of course, it's probably the ombudsman's office or the people that will determine what the military area is. Well, when we look at what the target is -- we just said -- it's a situation in countries around the world that are defined as improving human rights, taking rights in a short way, getting it. Dear friends, this institution is not an institution that has basically just begun working for us. I want you to know that in that sense the Constitutional Commission -- I'd like to get your attention here -- has passed this bill on the commission for the fourth time, for the fourth time. One was taken to the Constitutional Court in 2005, when it first passed by, first returned by our President, then transferred back to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court, for a reason -- I don't think it's true -- says in the Constitution, the issue is not organized enough, it has no authority to choose such an institution in the area of parliament's authority. But what we've always learned, what we've learned, is that parliament is the general authority, first-hand authority, first-hand authority, is that it can regulate anything as a principle, except for the judiciary, of course. So, of course, we had to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, and we put it in the Constitution in 2010, if you remember. So, what does it mean, that we wrote to the Constitution? It's a law of harmony, so this law is a law that must be passed, and I want to make it very clear. Then, of course, on January 26, 2011, we brought this law back, but this time it was an election. In fact, the Constitutional Commission is a little tired because of this law. Last, probably today, I think, is the law, together, hopefully, we'll get it out, tomorrow, whatever.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0155par0196	We'll get tired today, again in the morning.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0153par0197	No, hopefully, not that much. We're also looking at the group.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0155par0198	We're tired from yesterday, from yesterday.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0153par0199	Well, now, dear friends, I won't talk much, I'll finish with a few words, I don't want to take up too much of your time. I'd like to point out a few criticisms. Now, it's said that when it comes to choice, let's take the 2/3 majority of this Parliament to choose the principal, or 3/5, or whatever, it's a number. Maybe that's ideally true, but Mr. Akman mentioned it, it'll block this place. Besides, maybe there's another side to it. The Constitution has arranged it, and we don't have a chance to change it with the law.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0156par0201	We're changing the Constitution, Hajji.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0153par0202	Then we can do that, but at this point... of course, Mr. Ali, you're telling the truth, but if that changes in the Constitution, of course, we'll change that part of the arrangement about it, but in the Constitution, 2/3 is the only majority, the highest voter, the President's choice. Other than that, I think it's an election method right now, we can't accept it. I guess I'm just saying, in the interest of not breaking up friends, or I'm pretty sure it's not going to happen. Now, there's a second issue, the division of those in charge. Indeed, there has come to be a motion in the form of "let us consider it. " I mean, what kind of fields would this work in, it was health, it was the environment, it was the rights of children, it was the rights of women, it's the rights of women, it doesn't end in us, it's the regulations, it's the rights of women, it's the rights of children, it's the rights of the children, it's the rights of the women, it's the rights of the children, it's the rights of the women, it's the rights of the women. This institution has been given a priority in accessing the secret of the state, it can't get the document, but in the way that it goes and sees it, it seems to be a step forward in providing rights and freedom again. Could it be a choice like RTÜK, so can we distribute it to parties according to their powers? Maybe so, but the Constitution didn't predict it. With the law, maybe? Maybe it could be him, and I can't say much to him, but it doesn't seem very right to me in terms of the quality of this institution, so here's the inspector from the party, who's elected to be a supervisor from the party, or something like that, but it's possible to do that amongst ourselves. I mean, I think that would be a separate issue, that would be my personal opinion. Now, of course, at least one of the five auditors is a woman. It was said, "Ayla Akat Ma'am is not here." That's right, so I said yes, or at least one, at least three, and I said at least three, but he refused. I've got my wish on the report. He says to me, "You didn't vote." He says, "My friends know, I usually vote very rarely as President, but I don't vote except for him. So just because I didn't vote doesn't mean I'm against it, let's just say that. One last thing I'm finishing with, my dear President, is the matter of working in person or in the form of the board. There are also people working in the form of boards in countries around the world, and there are people working as individuals. We brought the text from the last legislature in the form of a board, but then we were told that the last time we did it, at the meeting in Istanbul, that the formations as individuals were more successful, that we came to this conclusion from our reviews, but I don't think there's an obstacle to implementing it in the form of the board. Why not? Let's say there's no reason for the five inspectors to sit down and discuss something, they can reflect it, but maybe it's not an official title, and it's not an obstacle to deciding whether or not it's a consultation. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0157par0210	Thank you. On behalf of the government, Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0158par0214	Mr. President, I have been promised to give you my opinion on the State of Public Control Act. On this occasion, I salute you all. As in the world, changes and developments in our country have revealed the need and obligation of the public administration to rebuild. In the face of change and development, it is also imperative that the state's duties regarding public services be reconsidered and the understanding of governance, which will minimize public complaints. In this sense, in many countries around the world, steps have been taken to bring public administration under the control of the people and to strengthen the control of the state. We have taken serious steps to bring anyone who serves in this sense in Turkey under public administration under the control of the public. Remember, in 2003, the Law on Information was passed by Turkey's Grand National Assembly. In accordance with the principles of equality, neutrality and openness required by democratic and transparent administration, the way for individuals to acquire public information has been opened, and authorities who have been required to provide information during certain times have been obliged to provide this information, and there have been some factors about it. And as a result, many of our citizens asked questions about matters they were interested in, both about themselves and about public institutions, and they received information, and they made it possible for the public administration to be more careful about improving many issues. For example, a lot of public officials are being filled with records, people don't know what their record notes are, and they don't know what they're doing, and they don't know how they're being given these notes, and the next thing you know, when you're writing good things about a lot of people, you can still write bad things about a lot of people, you can write notes, you can have a decisive effect on their promotion and other areas. Finally, we removed the issue of giving a record note, you know, it was a very wrong practice, but when the Information Act came up, there were officers who applied, they learned their records, and the way to bring them to justice is already clear, they carried it, they got a lot of opportunities. What did this Information Act do to correct subjective approaches and at this point, to eliminate a number of unethical assessments outside the law? He's been a big help. It brought an important improvement in that regard, but it was not enough in Turkey. For him, if you remember, we took another step, and the audit of the judiciary is going on, and the administration is doing a control court on all kinds of actions and procedures, and this process is going on, but in another way, we took another step in 2010, which allowed anyone under the European Convention on Human Rights to oversee the entire judiciary, except the AIHM, and with a change in Article 118 of the Constitution, everyone can apply to the Constitutional Court on the basis of basic rights and freedoms that have been guaranteed in the Constitution. We have first implemented what we call an individual application in Turkey, and from 23 September 2012, applications will be accepted. We also took another step towards the operation of a separate control mechanism by the Constitutional Court and the strengthening of control in another dimension. All these strengthening steps, it's clear that those in the administration and those in the executive office will perform more law enforcement, forcing them to take human rights, within the limits set by the Constitution and the laws, and at this point, preventing them from going outside the line. Another issue is that a bill for the establishment of Turkey's human rights institution is being drawn up on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the talks on the commission, I think, have been completed. This brings back a control mechanism from another point of view, and the human rights institution will be able to control the administration from another angle. Our government is still working on the establishment of the law enforcement commission. This opens up a new way of reviewing complaints in the law enforcement area, as well as an independent law enforcement commission, out of all these audits. We are also continuing our work on the establishment of a non-discrimination and equality institution, and in the coming period, the bill on this issue will come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Law Against the Protection of Personal Data shall now be legalised in the Prime Minister's Office, which will be finalised in the coming days, both in the commission and in the General Assembly. All of this is a mechanism that protects the individual, makes the individual stronger against those who use the power of state and state. These are important steps for the strengthening of the state of law and for the radicalisation of our democracy. Here's another one of the steps we're talking about today is the Public Control Agency Legislative Bill. In this sense, we're building a new institution in Turkey, a separate structure that controls all institutions. It's an independent structure, an impartial structure; we're building a mechanism that will examine all of this in the form of application, and make decisions about the laws of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, procedures relating to the use of judicial authority, and whatever remains except for military procedures. The door will be a very important task to ensure that no other door will ever be closed. Many of our friends have made assessments of the details of this, and I don't want to go into the details, but what I want to stress is that the separate mechanisms that make it very difficult to enter into the boundaries of the law in many ways, both in terms of the establishment of a human rights institution and the establishment of an independent law enforcement commission, which encourages them to be stronger, and the administration to be more sensitive to law enforcement, and in many ways, when it does not remain within the limits of law. I think all of these mechanisms are for the benefit of our nation, for the benefit of our country. I'd like to thank all my friends who have contributed to this. The public audit agency will also perform important functions in this sense. I just want to answer a few reviews because there have been a lot of evaluations and answers. One of them is that when the public audit agency does its duty, it will issue reports on the issues related to its mission. So it's not an institution that no one knows what it's doing, it's going to make it a report, it's going to report it to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and it's going to be published in the Official Gazette, and it's going to be presented to everyone in Turkey. In other words, it will be another sanction, and if there are wrongs and errors, then there will be an opportunity to inform the public about them. Another issue: If he needs to make a statement on some issues, he will be able to make a statement without waiting for the report to be published. When there are important matters, when there is a need to explain, he will be able to make his comments. This will again be a pressure on the administration, an incentive, a challenging mechanism to remain within the law. I hereby wish this law to be a blessing and auspicious, thanking all who have done it, and saluting the great assembly.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0159par0232	Thank you. On behalf of the individuals, Mr. Süheyl Batum. Here you go, Mr. Batum.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0160par0236	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I would like to express my opinion on the state-governing agency on behalf of myself. Dear friends, in many countries of Europe, this institution operates under different names, and does it by the name of Mr. Burhan Lamb -- he just said -- does it by the name of Mr. Burhan Lamb -- and does it by the name of the finder, and now he has become the protector of the rights, and now he's become him, and he's serving with many names, and we have to do what? He'll oversee the administration on behalf of the public. Dear friends, friends from the ruling party have never explained the issue: These ombudsmans, intermediaries, public auditors are generally doing inspections for two purposes. Now, there's a thesis written about it here in Dear Mahmut Tanal. I studied it in grad school when I was in college. The first is that it is an institution that will oversee the administration, to maintain basic rights and freedoms on behalf of the House. Ombudsman, this is the institution that will oversee the administration on behalf of Congress in order to protect basic rights and freedoms. Or another institution to oversee all other administrative institutions for power or part of the administration. There was also this, an institution in Russia called prokuraura. And we have the coup d'états forming the State Control Board after September 12th. Now, these two may also have the same names, but because the goals are different, their organization, its authority depends on that. If the goal is to oversee the administration on behalf of Turkey's Grand National Assembly to protect basic rights and freedoms, they have different powers. If the goal is to reverse it, I mean, to oversee the administration for the sake of power, it's different. Dear friends, even in France -- the manager, first of all, was appointed by the president to supervise for the president. What did they do in 2008? They said: "Now the parties in parliament will be able to reverse this appointment." They said, "Couldn't this be the president of Kosovo?" They said, "The majority of the parties in parliament can refuse this appointment." Why? It was to transform Prokuratura (Prokuratura) into an ombudsman, its basic rights and freedoms. Now, dear friends, we use these institutions for two kinds of purposes. One, to ensure that basic rights and freedoms are guaranteed. The other is for the purpose of defending against the pleasure of the administration, against its poor functioning. Be careful: to the poor functioning of the administration... it's very important. I call it the pleasure of management. So, who's in charge? There's a minister who's part of the executive. Where does the minister depend? Where does it come from? He's out of the majority of the ruling party. Now, you have the majority of the ruling party elect a public auditor to oversee a minister who has left the majority of the ruling party, and then you say: "We have established public supervision to advance, to conduct inspections. Dear friends, you're not telling the truth. I'm not saying this for the friends here; I'm saying this for the ministers who prepared it. Dear Burhan Lamb knows too much, and if you'll be careful, that's how they got there, because the Constitutional lawyer finally can't do it like the others. So, just sit down for a while. John spent part of his speech thanking our friend. Now, there's a fact. What did you do it for? To protect basic rights and freedoms. Who are you testing? The administration. Then what are you doing? You're auditing the head of the administration. Who? Again with the man or person that the majority has chosen. Dear friends, let me tell you something else: there's a law in a country where there's a dissolution, there's a parliamentary system in common with these organizations, so there's not just a public auditor who's been established in Turkey. Here, they told me, there are different examples. The most important of these common features is independence and autonomy. How is that possible? In his selection, in his dismissal, in his assurances. Now, unfortunately, as I said, you have a habit; it's your AKP majority. I'm sorry, dear friends. Now, you call it choice. Here's the law. I was scared when our friend John was just telling me. Yeah, there's gonna be a coup. That's why he called the majority...... I was thinking, "Let's get the Prime Minister to pick a fight so there won't be any. Let's not argue." I thought he was going to say! If he chooses parliament, the fight will fall apart and they won't get along. This Parliament is so bad that the MPs here can't even choose a public auditor, so we had our Prime Minister choose it. He didn't say that, but he left it a little bit in the middle, so he said, "Let the majority pick it out, let the majority run it." Now, who do you choose? You're choosing the public defender. Dear friends, what are we talking about? Mr. Secretary, it's very nice here, it's about progress, expansion, whatever, going too far. Now, as the parliamentary speaker sitting there, is it really me living in space, or does the Minister live somewhere else? Or is he trying to deceive us like this? I wonder if he's really trying to deceive us. Look, he can say this: What's it to you? None of your business! We're the majority, we've built an institution to control the administration, what is it to you? We say that he's telling the truth. But we want to come here, to make progress, to tell us stories about basic rights and freedoms and so on, no one will forgive us. My dear friends, dear MPs, dear lawmakers, don't take it off the force. You've arranged so much that my friends and Ali Bey will tell you now. If it turns out that it has lost its attributes in Article 10 or something like that, the commission decides that it is not a Turkish citizen, the ruling majority decides, let's see, it can continue. It may say that it may not. But if it is convicted, the adjective ends with the declaration of this decision. Imagine, to someone who appears to not have the number of qualities in the 10th article, to someone who appears, that the commission does not bear those qualities. The Commission will decide whether or not we should continue it as a supervisor. You might say that's how my life is understood? They say: "The Commission decides." One joke later says: "It ends." Now we're talking about neutral, independent, autonomous organization. - What else would the Minister say? If he does not act, what will we do? We don't know. Why? It's about moving forward, going forward, democracy, that's why. Now, finally, I would like to say that dear friends, in their qualifications -- our dear friend Ali -- have also explained in his original day -- are going to graduate from law, political knowledge, so, economics, administrative sciences, business sciences -- are going to graduate from one of the schools. Have you ever seen an arrangement that is not empty? When it was said that the Minister was in the majority, or in the process, did you see a serious arrangement that was not empty? It's a choice, and it's not a choice. Who do you choose? He's a public inspector. What are you doing? Just now, Ali said in her original day, you don't get anyone else to look into the secret of the state, you get this person to look into the secret of the state, but how? The law may or may not be political or anything like that. Why not? We didn't prefer it. It'll be irrelevant. What if it's not? My dear friends, the last thing I'm saying is that we really sat down. Dear Burhan Lamb is here. On the day when we sit in the middle because we're doing the constitution, you bring this institution, and you say, "I swear to God, the people who get the most votes are the ones who get the most votes. So, what do we do? That was the constitution. Mr. John says: "We put it like this, or it would have been a coup. It's a way of preventing a coup. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0161par0251	Thank you, Mr. Batum.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0162par0252	No, not at all.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0161par0253	Sir?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0162par0254	Mr. Suheyl explained as if he didn't understand. I don't think Parliament...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0161par0255	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0162par0258	Mr. President, my statements during my speech are very clear, but Mr. Batum, the esteemed constitutional lawyer, has interpreted my words in a different way or so, he wanted to explain.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0163par0259	Preferably!
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0162par0260	We're here to propose that, including the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, including the Speaker of Parliament, members of the RTÜK, members of the Court, we make a lot of elections here, all of which we're looking for some specific proportions. The minimum of this Nisab is the number of decisions, and the highest level is the majority of two-thirds. By referring to the clause in the Constitution of 1961, which is essential to the election of the President, in particular, by referring to the requirement of the election of the President, if we bring such a requirement, as our friends have explained in the commission, it would in some way mean that we would not be able to elect him. In fact, it caused so many crises that on that day it was explained as a reason for the coup. Of course, we don't choose the President here, so I'm not going to mean that the democratic system or the administration should be blocked, but since we're setting up an establishment, we've already put these terms on Article 74 of the Constitution...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0164par0261	He's going to change, we're changing 74.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0162par0262	I said it's the right way. I'm re-explaining the same opinion, so there's no way that we have to make it in certain terms in order to demonstrate its neutrality. That would be against the system.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0164par0263	Which system, Mr. Akman?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0162par0264	It's not enough alone to explain his neutrality, but, please, we'll sit down with friends or with the Parliamentary administration that day, a person can be determined that they can actually ally with anyone, no harm in that, but you can't name the system like that, that's the truth. Thank you, Mr. President, for giving me the opportunity to make this statement.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0165par0272	Moving on to QA. Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0166par0274	Mr. Secretary, as you know, the Department of Justice is about to conclude the closure of some county courthouses. I want to know the names of the county courthouses that will be closed in Isparta. Won't these closures mean that these districts, which have already lost its population rapidly, have been completely extinguished? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0165par0276	Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0167par0277	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the bill stipulates that you are not up to five years old under the conditions needed to be appointed assistant public auditors. Is the same condition possible for civil servants to be appointed to other public institutions and institutions? Thirty years in some institutions, thirty-one in others, changing. Is it possible to raise this to 35? Can a study be done about it? The second question is, what is the average annual fileload of administrative courts still? With this bill, how much of this court's cargo has been intended to be reduced? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0168par0281	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0169par0282	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, this is a different statement from Mr. Prime Minister, a different explanation of Mr. Bkent Arinc, and you have different explanations. What are the reasons for these different explanations? After eight years, what events have been effective in experiencing these contradictions? Is the request for the trial of the Undersecretary of the MIT, Hakan Fidan Goshen, one of the main reasons for this change? Or is there someone else we don't know about? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0170par0285	Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0171par0286	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, a question has just been asked, whether or not the courts in the districts will be closed. Now, I'm curious about Kayseri. In Kayseri, which districts will be closed?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0170par0288	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0172par0289	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, do you believe our bureaucratic system will allow the implementation of the public audit system? Lawmakers are asking the ministry questions through the Turkish Grand National Assembly Chairman, with questions motions that are one of parliament's rules of control. The answers are highly illegible, unrecognizable, inadequate and meaningless. Although the ministers have signed these answers, do you believe that the bureaucrats will answer questions tomorrow, given that the bureaucrats are the bureaucrats? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0173par0292	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0174par0293	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how many districts in the district of Mugla will the courthouse be closed? We're wondering what it'll be like in the county without a court. One thing I'd like to ask you about is how many times has the burden of administrative justice increased since you came to power, since 2002? We know very well that the burden of administrative judgment has increased, and you know it. Does so much increase mean that your power is at odds with the citizen? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0175par0297	Mr. Original...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0176par0298	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, according to our execution regulations, if anyone in prison wants to meet with the leader of the faith, this meeting is provided. One of our Alevi citizens, who was in the Type F Prison, wanted to meet his grandfather, the leader of the faith. Our D.A. friend sent this request to the mufti. The Mufti sir sent it to you, the President of Religious Affairs. In answer to the State Department's office: I don't have any -- if necessary -- I'll give you an imam. You think it's a human rights violation when the Public Control Act is being discussed, and in your opinion, will the public auditor you're appointing consider this a violation of human rights? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0177par0301	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0178par0302	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you, is there a courthouse that has been shut down in the districts of Uçak? We also discussed the Bill of State Secrets at the Justice Commission today. There is a provision for the failure of state secret documents and information to be sent to administrative courts under Article 20, and the decisions taken by the state secret assessment board will not be sent to the administrative courts, but in this bill, you gave the auditors the right to examine state secret documents. If such documents, which are not sent to the courts now, can be investigated by the auditors, how do you assess this contradiction? Shouldn't there be a parallel arrangement or a way to get it sent to the courts? Because we believe that decisions made by the state secret review board must be audited by the judiciary.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0179par0305	Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0180par0306	Thank you, Your Honor. Now, Minister, of course, I think that between these courts, which you're going to crop up, there's also the counties of Iğdur, because you've cropped a lot of things, and they're the only ones left, and you're probably getting ready to clip it. Second, the President of our Constitutional Commission informed us here that he passed on applications and names in different countries. Is Russia sure that the information he gave about the Commission is true? How do you assess the President of the Constitutional Commission's misinformation?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0181par0309	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0182par0310	Thank you, Mr. President. Will the spending of the Prime Minister's covered funds be controlled by the public inspector? Question two: Turkey's Grand National Assembly opened at three yesterday, and work continued until four in the morning. It opened at two o'clock today, so it's not sure how long it'll last. And will the public inspector be able to control this work order? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0183par0315	That question is important to me, too. Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0184par0317	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a question to ask the Minister: "When the state security courts are needed in Turkey, it may be considered to be removed." What are the criteria for whether or not you need these special jurisdictional courts? When will these needs be over? When will the trial be lifted? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0185par0320	Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0186par0321	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, on the one hand, you're accepting laws that will remove the supervision of the administrative judiciary, and you're taking the authority to reverse the decision of the final administrative judicial decision by the Council of Ministers, while you're providing this public supervision with a new body to oversee the administration. Don't these two contradict each other? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0187par0324	Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0188par0325	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to learn from Mr. Minister: Kastamonu Province, Turkey's largest district, is the second district. We have recently received reports that five of our districts have also been declared to be closed down in the same way. Now, the issue related to the number of files has been brought up on grounds. Now, it's very difficult for our districts to communicate with our villages in a very serious sense. These people have to go 100km to get the slightest forensic service. Do you have any interest in these people? Will legal services be continued again when the number of files is increasing in the future, related to these counties? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0189par0328	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0190par0329	Thank you, Mr. President. Our questions aren't really over. Now, Mr. Secretary, there's a warrant here for these auditors to listen to witnesses and apply for expert examinations, but the auditors don't even have to be lawyers, so any college graduates and university graduates can be auditors. Now, what good is it from a witness who listens to witness listening, who doesn't know how to listen, who doesn't know how to do it? It is not clear how these witnesses will be guided or how their actual statements will be heard. Will the parties be ready or not? How will these be resolved if witnesses testify under duress or are directed? In this way, do you think it's right to be given the authority to listen to witnesses, to be examined by the expert?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0191par0332	Yes, Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0192par0333	Mr. President, Mr. Bozdağ doesn't know this, Mr. Burhan... he's the Professor of the Constitution!
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0191par0334	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0193par0335	Mr. President, dear friends, many questions have been asked, and I will try to answer in time. That's a lot of questions. Of course, the most intense question is about the courthouses. Are there courthouses that are supposed to be closed? We know that in the past, there have been different times when a court order has been made. It's also true that the Justice Department is currently doing that work. Your hearing is likely based on this study. According to my friends, this study is based on the work situation, transportation facilities, geographical structure, population status and other criteria, but the main things are being evaluated in the framework of these.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0194par0336	Mr. Secretary, you're making today's law to reduce the problems of citizens who are taking advantage of public services. Now with the practice you're doing, you're increasing the problems of citizens.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0193par0337	Now, if you'll excuse me, if you're not satisfied, that's something you'll know. In the past, there have been 128 closures, if I'm not mistaken, related to such a court of law...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0194par0338	So how will the citizens of the closing courthouse benefit from the service?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0193par0339	...and there have been decisions made in other governments, and there have been closures, and those decisions are made by the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0194par0340	How are we going to solve the citizens' problems, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0193par0341	Now that the study on this matter has not been cleared, since the results haven't been revealed, which courthouses are closing in, and since I don't have any information about it...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0195par0342	Mr. Secretary, I'm reporting that your friends have that list.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0194par0343	Minister, how will he solve the citizen's problem, where will he go?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0193par0344	...which of our valued fellow lawmakers is being shut down in our province? We have no way of answering a question that says, "What place is being closed?" But a study is being conducted in which the neighborhood, which is less than 500, is less than 15km away from the best legal services, is between 15 and 40km from the most appropriate judicial agency, and the average of work is below 1,200. The central population is 10,000, the total population is not more than 30,000, and I have no detailed information about the integration of the neighborhood.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0196par0345	There are long distances.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0194par0346	How will the citizen benefit from public service at that distance?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0193par0347	When a statement is made about him, which districts will be covered, where they will be cleared.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0197par0349	Dearly beloved, when you speak amongst yourselves, the questions are gone.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0193par0350	There is a limit to 35 years of age for the assistant public inspector. Is this considered for other civil servants? Our government has already turned 35 in many areas. We're thinking about continuing the same approach in other areas, and we're moving forward with age, many steps, and we're going to keep going. Of course, the average number of files in the administrative courts -- administrative and tax court -- 2011 figures: January 2011, 168,658; 269,407 in the last year; 16,597 in the last year; a total of 454.662 files. In the last year, we've seen 309,921 cases come to a decision.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0198par0352	What is 2002, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0193par0353	The numbers I have right now are not numbers that cover all the past years, but figures from 2011. I'd like to express it. Of course, the question of Seyfettin Yilmaz's special authorities asked if there was a contradiction between several statements. There is no fundamental contradiction between explanations. Mr. Prime Minister, if you remember, I don't know the exact date, but there was an explanation that there was a study in Istanbul about ten or fifteen days ago. We have stated that I have also been conducting a study on the heavy criminal courts of private authority on a television channel, and that all issues have been considered, including narrowing the scope of this study, making arrangements for the procedure and fully removing it, and that there has been a study on it. In a statement following a meeting of the Council of Ministers on Monday, Mr. Bulent Arinc said there was no regulation for special official criminal courts in the fourth judicial package presented to the Council of Ministers by the Minister of Justice. On the question of a journalist, he said, "Did such an interview happen? Is there such a thing?" He said, "There is no such thing in the draft at this time; there is no such thing in the interview." So, a meeting of this special official for severe criminal courts did not take place at the last meeting of the Council of Ministers. In the draft presented by the Minister, there was no regulation on 250 and more items. Mr. Arinc's explanation was a statement that expressed that, but everyone, in their own way -- the papers -- when they reflect it a little bit -- the people who didn't want it to come out, the people who didn't want it to change it, they did otherwise, but there's an explanation for it, as well as our Prime Minister, we all have an explanation.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0199par0355	No, why don't you explain in a way that a citizen understands?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0193par0356	There's a study going on. After this study is over, there will be a debate on how to make an arrangement based on the outcome of this negotiation, and then it will be shared with the public. At the moment, I would like to express it specifically, not because of the information taken from those who are doing this work, but rather because of a number of assessments based largely on predictions. Another friend of ours asked me about the special authorities' courts... and since it's the same again... Mr. Fırat had a question about the DGM and the DGM. We said that the special official criminal courts were born out of a need in Turkey. That's right, they were born of a need. It's been established under the name of state security courts, operating in our country. With the latest arrangements, state security courts have been lifted. As this was removed, some evaluations were made. This is lifted, but in the case of investigations and prosecutions related to these cases, what problems may arise, what may happen, after evaluations have been made, a decision has been made to establish the special official criminal courts, and a need has been considered, and we have stated that there is always a temporary trial set up by special authorities for the need of severe criminal trials. So the legal state of these courts...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0200par0358	Until we silence who, Mr. Secretary? This was a temporary trial until we silenced who? Was it temporary until they shut them up? Until they put whom in the dungeons? What's validity? What kind of lawyers are you?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0193par0359	We've never said they had courts, and we've stated that these courts will be removed when the need is gone, but we've also said that from time to time, we've made it very clear that they're going to...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0201par0360	So a private court that was not under AKP's command was born out of necessity?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0193par0361	... during the public debate over investigations and prosecutions, we shared our own views with the public. That doesn't mean that we praise the courts, that these courts are required by the state of law, we make it clear.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0202par0362	I mean, isn't the Republic of Turkey the state of law now?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0193par0363	And the assessments of these courts will be final and will be shared with the public after the work is done. The media's own assessments of the media are all in the press right now. Otherwise, it's not information obtained from inside the study. There's only one thing that's true...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0203par0364	It's been five years in prison, no indictments!
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0193par0365	...is that there's still a study going on. Other than that, the information is completely...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0203par0366	How can you still say that? He's been in jail for five years, he doesn't have an indictment. There's a bit of decency in a man's body.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0193par0367	...it's about the news of the newspapers.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0204par0369	Mr. Secretary, you may complete.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0205par0370	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0204par0371	Teacher, okay, you asked me not to tease you, I'll give you that. Mr. Secretary, if you complete it very quickly, your time is up.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0206par0373	No, if he's gonna answer my question, let him finish it.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0207par0374	I'll answer the rest of the questions in writing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0204par0375	Okay, you'll answer in writing. Dear Lamb, here you go. Mr. Oğan informed him wrong. Upon his words, I promise him, he will inform him correctly.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0208par0381	Dear friends, I said that the name of the institution we call public supervision has been given in other countries, and in socialist countries, I said that it was named after it as a name meaning prokuratura, or prosecutor, and Mr. Batum called it here. So, Mr. Oğan, since two constitutional professors say so, I guess you have to believe that now, I suppose. It's been there for three hundred years, it's been changed in 97, it's been called the Commissioner of Human Rights, but it's still there. In that sense, if you go online, you will find simple information there. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0209par0384	Mr. President, may I have your word?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0210par0385	You can't ask, no insults, no abuse, no provocation.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0209par0386	I'll fix it. Two professors said that if they know the truth, you know what's wrong.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0210par0387	No, he didn't. Don't. Well, then, Mr. Okan...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0209par0388	If you'll excuse me, the truth is...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0210par0389	No, no, I can't promise not to tease him, he'll turn into a dirigible.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0209par0390	Being a professor isn't exactly known, sir! I'll tell you the truth...
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0210par0391	No, no, I'll get it now, then I'll look at the transcripts, there's an insult, there's an insult, there's harassment, there's provocation, there's an imposition, ha, I'll give it to you accordingly. Okay? Now they've fixed a situation I can't pronounce. I mean, if it gets watery, I'll get mad. [[Continue]] Yes, the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first chapter covers Articles 1 to 23. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Reza Türmen wants to speak on chapter one. Here you go, Mr. Specten.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0211par0404	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, an ombudsman institution is about to be established soon. In principle, we see this as a positive development, but the bill brings with it a lot of problems.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0212par0405	Mr. President, we don't understand. We don't hear it, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0210par0406	I swear, I'm not the warden of this House, one; I'm not the corporal of the gendarmes or the general, two. Now, I can warn the friends. Yes, shut up, please, don't make any noise. That's okay, but they've turned the chair around. They're not listening. Intervene it. I can't do that either.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0212par0408	The voice reflection of the House is wrong, so the speech on the stand is not clear. How does this House do this?
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0210par0410	I don't know about that. Mr. Turmen, I'm going to turn on your microphone, and I turned it off privately so your time wouldn't go away. I'm sorry. Here you go, Mr. Specten.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0213par0413	Thank you, Mr. President. We take the establishment of the ombudsman institution as a positive principle, but the bill creates problems in many ways. The first of these problems is in the sense of timing. There's a constitutional process going on. In this constitutional process, the parties related to each clause bring in proposals that include their own opinions, these bills are being studied, and they are trying to find a common ground between them, and they are trying to reach an agreement, and that's how the work works work works. Soon there will be a clause on the ombudsman concerning public supervision, and four political parties will bring their own proposals. Now, valuable lawmakers, it is not possible to understand that while this process is going on, the power will hold and bring a law on the ombudsman and present it to the Parliament. How do you explain this? I mean, the power has no faith in this process, so he makes a separate law? That's the explanation? So, after this law passes, after the ombudsman becomes law, isn't it at all calculated for the effects of the constitutional process on this process? I mean, doesn't power see that there's an improvement that's clouding confidence in this process? Of course, as this process continues, bringing such a bill has had a negative effect on this process, and it will have a negative effect on it. Of course, it will lead to prejudices in terms of the proposals, the plans the parties will bring. For one thing, in terms of time, that's why it's a problem. When we look at the bill itself, it carries other problems. In order for the ombudsman to be effective, he has to be independent, and he has to be very respectable, and he has to be considered, and he has to be loved, and he has to have these two elements. However, with today's bill, these elements will be incomplete. Why will it be incomplete? For one thing, because of the election method, the ruling party, with its own majority, will bring in its own public auditor. In the same way, he will bring in the rest of the auditors with the majority of the commissions. Well, then, how will the ombudsman, who came to the post like this, who came with the ruling party's votes, control the savings of the government, which was established by the same power again? There's no answer to that. This is also against the Paris Principles. The Paris Principles are: states are obliged to observe and comply with the independence and pluralism of these national human rights mechanisms as they set up national human rights mechanisms. This is the principle adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations. How will this independence and pluralism be guaranteed? These members of the Human Rights Association will be made aware of their independence in terms of their election, their time, their dismissal. However, in this bill, they have not been respected by the principles of independence, nor have they been allowed to serve independently, for the duration of the ombudsman has not been observed for four years. Of course, independence in terms of human rights is of absolute importance, independence from state, administration, non-management, because human rights are rights against the state, but complaints against the state. When the authority of the ombudsman is counted here, the complaints brought to the assembly will be examined. Who are these complaints against, who are they from? These complaints, of course, are complaints without a warrant. The ombudsman will examine the complaints filed against the execution, but he is also an ombudsman, who was appointed with the majority of the ruling party that launched the same execution. There will be doubts about the independence of the ombudsman, the neutrality of the ombudsman, regardless of how the ombudsman behaves, no matter how neutral, no matter how independent, no matter how independent he behaves. To eliminate these doubts, so objectively, the independence, the neutrality of this ombudsman will always be suspicious. A person who is so suspicious cannot be expected to carry out this assignment properly. Well, is there a cure? Of course you do. It's possible to fix this in a few ways. Of course, this bill can be changed. The election method can be changed, the election method in commissions can be changed, or, of course, the administration without touching anything, the ruling party, by consulting a ruling majority, can ensure the election of the public auditor. This agreement can be reached at the commission level, which means three candidates will be presented at the commission level. So the three candidates the commission is going to present, with consultations, could be candidates for all the Parliament, all the political parties in parliament. That doesn't mean changing the bill here. This is a question of political will, of political intent. If political power has any intention of bringing an ombudsman into office with such a compromise, if it has any intention of allowing this ombudsman to function effectively, then it will begin a mentoring process. Political parties agree on who the four political parties are, which three candidates are able to agree on, and then they choose between them. But political power won't do it. Why won't he? Because it's against the rule of political power's philosophy of governance. The philosophy of governance of political power is based on the concentration of power, the collection of power. But democracy is based on sharing power, not the concentration of power in one hand. It's because power is based on sharing, which is the principle of separation of forces. The sharing of power is because democracy is firmly committed, which is very important to institutional pluralism. But if institutional pluralism is provided, it could be democracy. So you have to have institutions that are independent of power. However, when you look at it today, every institution from scientific institutions to scientific institutions, from scientific institutions to political institutions, from economic institutions to technical institutions has been linked to political power. What will he do if he does not attach himself to the political ombudsman with such a governance mentality? Of course he'll keep it to himself. This bill is a reflection of this administration mentality, so we can't expect it from political power. With such a compromise, it will not be possible for an ombudsman to be elected and to play an effective role at that time. However, a change of mind requires a more democratic culture, which political power has shown on many occasions that it does not have that mentality. Of course, if the ombudsman had been chosen that way, if he had been an independent, effective, respectable ombudsman, then the heart would have wanted this ombudsman to have much broader powers. For example, as he has in Spain, he has the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court, both in terms of individual complaints in order to get the laws annulled. The heart would wish, sir, to have the right to press charges in the administration court. I mean, we'd like to have an independent, neutral, effective ombudsman with broad powers, of course, but the powers of an independent and non-effective ombudsman ask me, the narrower the better. This ombudsman, in fact, will not be able to perform any role other than that of a government commissioner. And we take that with sadness. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0214par0420	Thank you, Mr. Specten. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Sebahat Tucson.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0215par0423	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the first chapter of the Constitution of Public Controllership Act 276. I salute you all. In fact, we've expressed many times on this bench, and it's not the law that matters, but in what way, in which way you've drawn up this law. Naturally, all laws made in this House are laws made without regard for equality between men and women, regardless of gender equality. In that respect, we care about such importance, and we care about this law that everyone's been talking about since morning, and we need it to be established in Turkey. It's not just a question of today, it's a bill that came up in 2004, it's been passed in 2006, it's been vetoed by the President of the era, and it's because this bill was not prepared enough, and it's a bill that NGOs have come back at that time because of the objections of the legalists. The year 2012, we're bringing up the same issue again. We're calling it the same thing in the world. We've even referred to Ottomans and actually applied them first. But in the 21st century, while we're still drafting this bill, we're not dealing with a government bill with a truly effective understanding of neither social equality nor legal control. As always, I did it, I did it: I said, "Well, he's developing something in general. There's one thing about power: in terms of these good things, you know, in society, we've done it more in terms of advertising. But when we look at the content, we're dealing with a lot of different kinds of problems. While this bill is being drafted, one of the basic principles is to protect the citizen in front of the state, which is an important issue, which is important for us. We've always said that the government is a pressure and a means of difficulty in society. The state institution must be democratized, a service to society. Protecting the individual, protecting the individual's rights and freedoms is one of the most basic human rights. So it's a fundamental task to do it, let's do it, but what kind of approach do we do it in when we're doing it, it's important. In this regard, for example, let's say that one of the issues that is contested here in the matter of public supervision is that this institution is not independent. All the groups have expressed, how will this institution be formed? So, whoever's in charge is AKP today, what makes you think you'll be 50 percent tomorrow? But you think we're going to be 50 percent, and we're going to do it again. But with an approach that gives power, the commission is elected, under his control. That's not an acceptable point. So the independence of this institution is also important for the future, and it's important for control. For us, the subject of second criticism and fundamental criticism is that there is no approach to equality between men and women. Women's organizations have been working on it for years. In the case of women, especially the state device itself is at a point where sexism has already been established, and it is in a position that eliminates the equality of genders, to reproduce power, hierarchy, and regulation every day. Hence, it is not acceptable for women not to make an arrangement in favor of women, especially in a place where women are subject to more pressure and difficulty, discrimination. When Mr. Burhan Lamb was criticising our Regent Ayla Hanim, he said: "There can be some arrangements for this matter through children and women. We consider it at least as a promise. Mr. Secretary didn't mean anything by it, but it's the least we can do. If there's an arrangement in the field, in part, it won't be completely solved, but I think maybe we'll be able to figure out a field for children and women. From that point of view, we have a motion for a change. We're hoping to make a change in this matter, and the government will consider it, because when it doesn't, our motion as opposition is not enough. We think it's important. Lawmakers are trying to establish a pre-judgment mechanism designed to protect the right to a person against any public action, as stated in the basis of the public audit law. Therefore, it is important to include him within the national human rights institutions. The creation of this institution is something that we have to take into account in that respect, according to international mechanisms. Besides, the reason for the law has already been discussed within the European Union's harmony. The principle of Paris, adopted by the United Nations in 1992, is important. So at some point, this law proposal has to be in accordance with the Paris Principles. The Paris Principles demand that all laws set out in the field of human rights include principles that must be made in harmony with the mechanisms to be formed. In order to develop and protect human rights that are being created by this bill, the compliance of the Paris Principles must be questioned. The main point of the bill is that the institution's duties are not clearly defined in the first article. In the 5th article of this bill, it is specifically the duty of the administration to respect the rights of the people, to study the rights of the law and to make recommendations to the administration. In the statement, all actions and actions and behaviors and attitudes and actions of the institution are vague, so it is necessary to use a more specific statement, because this institution, in the end, will not function as a judge, will write a report, will be brought to the agenda, but the report prepared by this institution is very important. You have to be careful with these points. The other issue, particularly in Article 5 of this article, is that the Turkish Armed Forces -- which is also the subject of criticism -- should be excluded from public supervision. We've talked about military custody for years, especially the AKP government, which has expressed that it's fighting against military custody, that it's removing it, that it's a general approach to democracy, but when you look at the applications, it still protects this area autonomously, it doesn't allow interference in this area, it doesn't have any sanctions for the problems that are happening in this area. And that's a criticism, so now you're going to build an institution like this, you're going to want all the areas to be inspected, but you're going to keep the Turkish Armed Forces out of the scope. That's not an acceptable approach. Congressmans, once again, we would like to say that management is an art. It is its basic principles that determine how to govern. If you can't maintain democratic governance, if you can't run democracy, there will be chaos and chaos. So it's just that we've done it, we've had enough. There's no use to society, there's no use to our people, there's no use to our people. Today the world is discussing democracy in government. How can there be more democratic functioning? ▪ How can there be a democracy in workplaces? Let's say, how can we improve democratic principles in politics? Surely the approach must be dealt with strongly. So that's what's missing from this law, and once again, we want to emphasize that. Again, in terms of women's matters, the laws that will be passed after this must be dealt with in the matter of equality between men and women. Our Congressman Reza Sürmen has just expressed that, in fact, in the process of building the constitution, in fact, in a hurry, we don't find it very meaningful to make these laws, either. In fact, we find that somehow it makes sense, once again it becomes clear that the government has no problem with the new constitution. In fact, somehow, there's a commission working there, wasting time, working hard, but here he is doing something else. So there's a two-way law; there's hope for Turkey; there's a new constitution; we're building our democracy. On the other hand, it's actually trying to run another law here. Even that makes it very clear what is really to be done here. Once again, we want to make it clear to the AKP government: Do we want to build a new constitution or not? If we want to make a new constitution, then let's make a proper constitution, make the laws according to it. Now, we're going to make laws, we're going to adapt the constitution to this; this is not an acceptable approach, this is a serious problem. Another thing: really, let's say we have a few things to question in order to achieve democratic governance. Surely sexism, nationalism, religiousism, science are the things that plague mankind. So if we prepare our laws, our laws with an approach that's not really sexist, non-nationalist, that's not, let's say, a non-religious approach to religious politics, that doesn't monopolize science, that's what we're really doing for the people of Turkey, otherwise we're creating new mechanisms to strengthen our own power. So we've set up another mechanism to oversee government or public institutions. It says here that new jobs will go no further than creating, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0216par0437	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Isparta MP Nevzat Korkmaz is here.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0217par0440	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, I salute the High Council. Management and human relations have brought with them many human-oriented innovations. Naturally, this process has forced the creation of new institutions and rules. In many countries, the idea of management's work and actions and attitudes being supervised by mechanisms other than justice and human rights has been adopted and implemented. The work launched in our country in 1997 resulted in the adoption of a law in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in 2006, but it was decided that the Constitutional Court would stop the execution of the law and that all of it would be cancelled in 2008. The National Movement Party has previously declared the benefits of the creation of a state-run agency. However, as we have stated in the commissions today, there are serious shortcomings in the bill, and the law that will be passed before these woes are removed will not cure any trouble. Dear lawmakers, the search for intermediaries, public supervision, actually reveals a fact, you have to be blind to not see; the judgment is blocked. The AKP, which emerged as a reformer of justice, has led to a rapid, efficient, and fair judgment, and has paralyzed the entity to a point where our people seek justice with wax. At the gates of the court, people pile up again, and years of lawsuits are beyond justice. As you know, the Prime Minister has also participated in the debate of special authorities' courts because the issue is up to him, telling him to be removed or revised. Who has ever been crushed under these wheels, whose freedoms and rights, their law, have been brought underfoot. The Prime Minister speaks easily as if nothing had happened. It is on the shoulders of the AKP, there is no escape. I wonder how it's going to be legal with these people. Today, unfortunately, even judges and prosecutors complain about the politicalized, surrounded judiciary. On the road to justice, almost no problems have been solved, and it has been understood that judicial capture has also been achieved with the slogans of judicial reform. Sadly, the judicial boards today say that the surrenders were performed, that the legal and conscientious convictions were put aside, and that the bloc votes were used by instructions. As a result of AKP's ambitions, the judiciary collapsed. Some recent fashion and fantasy solutions are now sought for unjust practices and delays that annoy people. But what we see as indispensable infrastructure is that as long as politics is at its disposal and as long as there is no solution, solutions such as public supervision will never be the answer to trouble. Won't that help? Of course it can. However, this is no different than recommending dressing treatment for a patient who's about to have appendicitis. As the National Movement Party, our exclusive proposals on the commissions have been ignored. The law is born dead as it comes out. Dear lawmakers, public supervision has also been established in our history in the form of fucking Whitebeard, and a great deal of conflict and tension has been avoided in society. Those who have taken this assignment have received considerable dignity and dignity because they have acted in the way of righteousness, justice, and responsibility to the Creator in the face of violence. From time to time, even to the highest authority, my lord, there is a God greater than you. They have maintained their independence. The same principle applies today. Such organs can succeed to the extent that they can stand independent of power and political authority. In this regard, the public audit that was staged in the bill that we discussed today includes major shortcomings. All duties and powers given to public supervision are subject to 1 chief and 5 supervisors. The consultation and the common mind are neglected and denied. Of course, there are no examples of individual ombudsmanism in the world, but understanding social tissue in places where such ombudsmanism is in effect should be taken a good look at how society is approaching the political institution and the danger of extreme politization. In our country, where the AKP's ruling authority has every institution and manages every area under duress, it must be extremely difficult for people to function as independent, unconnected ombudsmans in a society of overpoliisation and partisanship itself. The AKP did not prefer a stronger, more energetic ombudsmanship as a board. There will be new rights violations, conflicting and unfair decisions after this formation. The election of the auditors has been left entirely to the discretion and control of the parliamentary majority. You know, the power is out of the parliamentary majority, so the political majority, which will govern the state, will still be in control of the state's business and operations. What do you call it when he steals and plays himself? Who will the citizen complain to? The same mentality that governs the state, the same mind that controls it. This is not acceptable in any democratic country. Control requires a critical perspective in its essence. It's not only what's done, it's what's not done, it's what's neglected. An unopposed sense of control, oh good! Don't tell me that in any other country. The institution you're building is not an inspector, it's a notary of the government. All these admissions reveal the fact that this institution was created by the opposition. At least considering the national will and vote distribution in parliament, it may need to be created as RTÜK, and it must be chosen for a qualified majority to ensure its independence. There is also a need for the institution to objectively share the shortcomings it detects with the public regularly. Dear lawmakers, the institution's responsibilities and jurisdiction must be well established. When doing a new job, there is a danger of pushing the presence into chaos and chaos. In this regard, his duties and powers must be based on sound definitions. Circular descriptions, such as military activities or decisions on the use of judicial authority and legislative authority, may be considered a relief for the ombudsman to act, but we must also remember that this uncertainty can create a new conflict and chaos among institutions. With the Constitutional amendment, we decided that the president should be elected by the people. Once the people have elected, the presidency will not be like the presidency of the Constitution of 1982, and the public will consider it in a different light. He will say: 'He has promised me, he has promised me, and I have voted for him according to him, so let him answer. He will be responsible politically. So why shouldn't the political authority be audited on behalf of the public? Then the president's work alone should be controlled by the ombudsman. Foreign appeals to the ombudsman must be considered the basis of reciprocity. As we say this, sir, our arrangement is more modern, and the porter is given answers. Dear MPs, international relations don't have emasculatements. Such reserves are also important for the protection and protection of the law of your citizens in other countries. It is wise to retain such powers on one side in order to use them when the time comes. On the other hand, what you're doing is removing one of the defense reflexes of the state, because no one thinks more of your interests than you do. If this arrangement is designed in a way that is unconscious, it is grave. If it is purposely prepared, it is, in the least, ignorance and ignorance of the state. The way the public inspector can perform his expected function is through the ability to be active in the system and to be perceived as effective by the public. After a while, the ombudsman will lose both his reputation and his activity. Therefore, his reports should be transferred directly to the General Assembly without any censorship by the commission and discussed within a month at the General Assembly. We haven't forgotten how the Court's reports on the AKP's power of law and corruption were kept in parliament for months and years. We know how you keep the age-old court ordinary. Please pay attention to our warnings so that this arrangement of yours can be well-intentioned. Otherwise, you will have the ability to use this arrangement to take the gas of people who have lost their minds and angered, and to buy time on their way to the AKP Power. We're going to offer our change proposals. I hope he accepts these proposals, says we'll do the most functional, truly public supervision together, and I salute the great assembly.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0218par0459	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. The first statement on behalf of the individuals is from Mr. Kamer, a member of the Tunceli MP. Here you go, young man.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0219par0463	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're bringing in a constitutional institution. The purpose of this constitutional institution is to bring in a system that highlights the return of citizens' missing rights in order to create a truly healthy sense of justice, which is unbiased, under no influence against those who use the public power of a citizen outside of judicial activities, without a conscience, soul, body, political influence. Mr. Riza, who was just speaking here, said: "We are building a constitution." Now, when you're doing this constitution, if you're actually honoring the commission of a constitution, let it go, I mean, there's no rush. So let's not bring in a new ombudsman, a public official or a supervisor, but let's make this a rule. It's very appropriate for me. My dear friends, this matter of public supervision has now been described here. So the law that's been brought in is missing a lot of sides. For example, it says: ▪ To examine the actions and procedures of the administration from the aspects of law and right. What is law? What do you mean, fit for justice? Where do you come up with the recipe for fairness? Who's going to appoint him? It's also a matter of being elected by the head of state and its supervisors, the head and auditor of the House, which our Parliament has chosen, the President, broadly elected, and with him elected members of the Court. Now, the President, about the famous 367, Mr. Burhan here and so on, they've taken these things off from time to time, and they have a purpose, my friends. Look, the President is the head of the state, a very high position for state bodies to work in harmony with each other, to work in harmony with each other. The people elected to this office should be respected, respected by everyone, so in order for a person of this quality to be elected, all parties, at least all parties represented in Parliament, or at least three quarters -- this person is truly this person -- should contribute to his choice. So is this public inspector, which is the nature of your task here. For him, the constitution makers say that when we choose here: "If a person who offers a great deal of reconciliation should be brought to this office." • If the person who is running for this office is not really qualified and in a position to achieve a great deal of reconciliation, then if Turkey's Grand National Assembly does not participate in the selection of three-quarters of them, then that election falls off the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Burhan Bey, people who know the philosophy and principle of the Constitution must understand this well. Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, you need to understand that. But it is impossible for people who have not fully grasped the philosophy of the law, the philosophy of the constitution, the general principles of the law to sense and apply such beauty. It's a matter of 367 for him, and that's the nature of the Constitutional Court's decision. It also takes such principle in public supervision, so it says that I will choose a man who looks at all citizens in the same way, who is neutral, who is not under the command of political power, who defends the rapes of citizens from political power in an impartial way, who defends them with an impartial conscience, who resists them. And here he gets three-quarters of his first thing. Actually, that's what we need to do here. If, in the first election, a council of three-quarters didn't participate in this election for public supervision, I think he should be down in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey by now, bringing in a new supervisor. These are things that need to be discussed for a long time. Dear friends, I think we're running out of time. I think we should leave this here now, when we're preparing for a new constitution, and we'll leave it to the friends who have prepared the constitution, and if public supervision is to be elected, who are we going to choose? We will choose one person in the parallel to AKP (AKP) and choose one at the command of Recep Bey. This public, like this, is under the order of Mr. Recep. All the institutions are there, and the court is there. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and that's where the parliament is. Come, there's no need for such a thing. We're keeping Parliament busy with all kinds of loose ends. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0220par0474	Thank you, Mr. Young. Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu on behalf of his people. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0221par0478	Reverend President, the esteemed MPs, since I can't tell you what I'm about to tell you in these five minutes, I've only divided the second five minutes for tomorrow. First of all, let me start by saying that there is no administrative judicial system in the Ottoman state of entry. Since Mr. Burhan is a constitutional lawyer, I really want him to listen to this. Mr. Burhan, Mr. Burhan, I'd like you to listen for a moment. ▪ The lack of the administrative judicial system in the Ottomans began, so it does not begin with the wrong idea. The Ottomans have an administrative judicial system, catastrianism. The second is Kadiul-kudât to examine the public's complaints against governance... which is wrong, Kadiul-kudât is not in the Ottomans, Abbasis are in the Ottomans, the Ottomans have Kadiul-kudât rather than the Kadiaskers. Again, you spoke of My Exemplar. The Ottomans don't have a Dynasty Mezalim. The Ottomans are also in the Islamic world before the Ottomans, and the Ottomans have Dîvan-i-Hümajun instead of Mezalim. So, I think the law is wrong because, first of all, you can't make the right decision on terms and terms, because -- I'll tell you tomorrow -- the Ottomans' ombudsman is the authority, the institution, and once it's the forensic inspectors of the Dîvân. I'm thinking of telling you tomorrow who they're made up of, how they're served, how they're appointed, what conditions they're doing the job, but look, once we're holding, we're trying to take back institutions from other countries, but it's expressed here, there are institutions like this in the Ottoman Empire. Yes, the Ottomans really have the best institutions in the world. Well, the Ottomans have a statistics that foreigners do, too. There is a ratio in the empires called the golden ratio. The proportion of this gold is the line drawn from zero to 100 degrees on everything from justice to social issues -- anything that a state takes on as a function -- and here, what government has performed the closest administration to that line, and there has been a study about it. In this study, the most important state, including the Roman State, is the Ottoman State, the only state that captures the golden rate, and so, without knowing what these systems in the Ottoman state are, we attempt to buy institutions under the name random ombudsmanism and so on. Let me make it very clear that during my General Directorate of State Archives, I've been able to determine for years what research is being done by all the foreign scientists in the Ottoman archives. The United States of America has done the most research in the Ottoman state, as of 1991, from 21 to 91. 683 people have arrived, and these 683 people have investigated the administrative structure of the Ottoman State, and I have a book on this, called the Ottoman State Organization and Social Construction. Now, such an important state, you're doing a study on local governments, you're not taking advantage of six hundred and twenty-four years, but the United States is taking advantage of it. You're not taking advantage of the legal system, you're coming because there's a group of witnesses in the Ottoman state that watch the court under the name "subject state," but this is not in Turkey today. As a matter of fact, this kind of research is extremely important. For example, the Ottoman State has passed a law on who the presidents and experts of the state you've created, and it's called the Austerity Act, which determines who can come after what duties. Turkey has yet to reach the Ottoman State's system. Dear friends, now he is glorifying the Ottoman State. Some of you may say, but, frankly, modernize the Ottoman State's system and apply it to the present, which is what America is doing, which I just told you, and I'll bring his statistics to you tomorrow if you want. So you can't get anywhere without applying it. And finally, I'll tell you this: Demirbaş Sharl came to the Ottoman State in 1709 and went to 1713. He wanted to send the man away, but he didn't go to the Ottoman State for all its costs, because the Ottoman state had named him, Ironhead. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit05spe0222par0490	Thank you very much, Mr. Halaçoglu. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-13sit06spe0222par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 119th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 276. Commission? No. It's been postponed. On Thursday (June 14, 2012), the decision to discuss other tasks from the commissions, in order to discuss the draft and proposals and other tasks taken from the commissions, is at 14 p.m., according to the decision taken Thursday (June 14, 2012). I'm closing the meeting at 00. Good night.
