tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, we've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can respond to these conversations. The government's response time is 20 minutes. The first unscheduled statement is from Malatya MP Öznur Çukık, who asked for the appointment of 3 October World Children's Day. Here you go, Mr. Çurk. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0002par0017	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise on behalf of myself due to World Children's Day, which is celebrated on the first Monday of October each year. I salute the grand jury. First of all, I wish that the 24th Year of Law would bring blessings to all of our MPs, our staff, our nation, and I celebrate the day of World Children's Day for all the world's children; I celebrate the day of the children who work most, the children who are homeless, the children who are brides, and the children who are hungry, the children who are starving, the children who are starving, the children who are hungry in Syria, Somalia, Somalia, Afghanistan, and the day of the war that are left without a mother, the day of their mothers. My fellow lawmakers, children will come, children are society, children are mothers, children are fathers. In the concrete of the prosperous society, there is a mark of a peaceful childhood. We know that many children in the world are unaware of their rights and are vitally under difficult circumstances, and they are unable to receive the education they need and deserve, while some are unfortunately subject to discrimination and abuse, while each child's right to grow up in equal rights with all the other children is always reserved. We are here for our children, more than the lawmakers, more than adults; we are here to ensure that adults, state and society side with the child, because a world where the child is happy and the child can run with health is an ideal world for everyone. ▪ A world that is friendly to children and a country should be the minimum standard that we want to reach. Dear lawmakers, we as Turkey are one of the first six countries to take action to combat child labor through the International Children's Rights Convention, the European Convention on Children's Rights, the CEDAW... and happily continue to take positive steps to put good things on this foundation. We work knowing that children are the center of development and the foundation of the main capital. We have a government whose stand against kidnapping, child pornography, all kinds of child abuse. A Prime Minister who has allowed 14 million students to have free books is now in charge. A minister is currently in charge of knowing that child rights are the basis of any policies related to children. Whatever opportunities children have in developed countries, our children have the same rights, and our MPs are now in charge, who say that our children should have the same quality education as they do. A sensitive nation, which allowed positive discrimination to come to children with a constitutional amendment in 2010, is watching us right now, and the guarantee of our future, guaranteed by this amendment, is watching us. Everything we do for them is always incomplete, always half-less. What have we done? We've developed the juvenile punishment and justice system. In our children's homes, in our love houses projects, we put 14,000 children under state protection. Is that enough? Of course it's not enough. We've opened 181,000 new classrooms. We didn't send computers to schools, we sent computers to classrooms, we gradually replaced boards in all classrooms with smart boards. We moved 41,000 disabled students to schools for free. Of course it's not enough. Let's make hundreds of thousands of children schooled by the girls' school campaign. With new social security and general health insurance, we've covered every baby born. We've reduced baby mortality to nine percent. Is that enough? Of course it's not enough, it's not enough, we're still short; we'll complete each other, we'll guide each other; we'll be an even more advanced society, and we'll be a more prosperous country for children. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are one-thirds children of human life and the world's population. The innocence of mankind, the conscience of mankind, is a child. We can't eliminate the world's children's problems unless humanity is on the side of the child without any prerequisite. Looking at the world from the point of view of children is not a lack, but a wealth. May God grant us all a chance to love and cherish the children. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0003par0029	Thank you, Mr. Çurk. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba, who wants to talk about the problems of apricot and apricot producers. Here you go, Mr. Agha. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0004par0035	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers regarding the problems of apricots and apricot producers. I salute you and your followers. Dear lawmakers, for many of you, apricots are an ordinary fruit, but for a Malatian, apricots have more meaning than fruit. Most Malatians have no livelihood but apricots. For these people, apricots are bread consumed every day, every day is the road, school money, hospital expense; it's the diesel, fertilizer, medicine that will grow the hope of the next year once again. For these people, apricots are life. Their hearts leap with apricots, and their hopes bloom with apricots. Manufacturers look after their trees like they're their own child for a year. They put their sweats on the ground, and if they're lucky, at the end of a year, most Malatian villagers will only get a month's salary. Dear friends, apricots are a miraculous product that is required and enjoyed all over Turkey and the world, but its manufacturer is a victim. Unfortunately, in the field, the price of an apricot goes down to 20 cents, but in the markets, it's sold for $5.6. Dry apricot is bought from the manufacturer for $1, which is sold in markets for 15-20 liras. So the apricot is taken from Malatya for nothing, and Turkey is sold at the price of fire. It's being exported, the government's making millions of dollars, but the farmer can't take advantage of this runt. This is the disaster of the apricot, the misery of the farmer. Apricot manufacturer is getting poor day by day; he suffers dozens of times, and someone is enjoying themselves. Dear lawmakers, the simple measures would be enough to rid the apricot of disaster, the farmer of misery. The government must support the apricot. For a year now, we have lost the hair of our tongue, saying, "Provided to absorption for absorption," but the government hasn't moved a muscle. Only the Prime Minister announced his support, and he said he would support the apricot by eating it as if it were a mockery of the Malatian people. Apricot manufacturer should be given interest-free loans. The manufacturer doesn't expect charity, donations or tips from you. He wants to borrow money from the state he taxed, served, contributed to his national economy. So, what do you guys do? You take advantage of the farmer's difficult situation and give him a high interest loan. Actually, you're kind of a loan shark. The base price application must be initiated. The base price must be set so that the gold in the branch does not return to the market. The manufacturer must be compensated. The irrigation problem must be solved. Watering is essential for increasing efficiency and quality. In order to do so, the government must perform the necessary work and end the conviction for sewage water in some areas immediately. The industrial production process of the in-laws must be supported, and to that end, the facility must be established. Dear friends, the manufacturer must be given tax-free diesel. The state burden on the back of the manufacturer, who feels the cost of consuming the world's most expensive diesel, must be removed from the tax hump. An autonomous institution that follows the production and marketing process of its Apricot should be created. Then the apricot will be free from the mercy of the market, the loan shark. With these simple measures and supports, there will be no such thing as apricot problems in Malatya. The manufacturer will get the sweat off his forehead. But these simple measures, they're too simple for you, so you won't do them. You have bigger projects. You can lend $5 billion to the IMF, but you can't give the Malatian manufacturer $5,000. You support the war in Syria to the death, but you do not support the apricot. You remove taxes from diamonds, but you tax mazota after tax. You pay for the gas you don't buy, but you don't buy apricots. You build weapons routes from Ankara to Lazkiye, but you don't build roads from Karakaya Dam to Battalgazi. You can build a service facility for imperialism in the sphere, but you can't build an apricot business facility for Malatya. When the election comes, honey, you call it apricots, but after the election, you only support apricots by eating them. You have big projects, big goals. Those projects, those targets are so big that Malatya, even Turkey, is disappearing. Apricot manufacturer can't even be seen with a microscope. With these wishes, I ask that the apricot be supported, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0005par0046	Thank you, Mr. Agha. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Kütahya MP Alim Ilk (a member of the Kütahya MP) who asked for the appointment of teachers according to the 2012 Public Staff Selection Exam. Here you go, Mr. Light. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0006par0051	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I ask that the year of the third legislature of the 24th century bring blessings to our country and our beloved nation, and I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, as it is known on July 7th or 8th 2012, claims that questions in the field of general cultural and educational sciences have been leaked through media bodies about KPSS 2012, including millions of young people and their families on this test, have led our entire nation to serious concern, and the OSYM has once again placed the focus of discussions. In response to allegations that some questions published by the Dicle News Agency and White Pen Publishing on the first day of the test were stolen prior to the test format, the same day by the OSYM President and his comments made by the candidates or candidates who took the test on public without any further investigation have been found to be served in memory by some of the publishers who have been served in memory and have later been asked to cover up allegations. On the contrary, the fact that the series of questions published by the news agency at 9:48 p.m. on the same day and all questions related to the study sciences test were the exact same as the questions in the Master's Book published by the OSYM on July 11th, and the answers were the evidence that some of the questions in this test had already been leaked. As a matter of fact, the results of the examinations later announced by the OSYM, and the cities that ranked the most successful cities in this examination, their claims about the test were true. The appointment of teachers made by the Ministry of National Education on 10 September 2012, without being investigated for serious allegations that questions about the proposed test have been leaked and sold in some provinces, has brought with it many new problems and victims. Some 4,000 of the 40,000 quotas were declared empty, then additional appointments were made to these vacant quotas. Now, I'd like to ask Mr. Minister of National Education here if you're comfortable with the appointment of teachers according to this questionable test. How do you intend to protect the rights of the candidates who have been victimised without proper selections and who have been properly given high marks and who will be assigned to better places when they will be assigned at all? It is possible to replicate such questions, but thousands of teachers who have been properly assigned to these appointments have been under the influence and have not been happy enough. On the other hand, many of the class teachers who were graduated on the grounds that they were needed in some majors while the quotas remained empty have remained open at these appointments, and since 2000, almost no quotas have been assigned to technical teachers again. The ministry, on the one hand, has forgotten its vocational teachers who are trying to encourage vocational education. All of this is not enough, but with 4+4+4 education systems that have been quickly implemented without any preparation, many major teachers have been defeated by the application of the exchange of spaces in some areas to melt the surplus of teachers, schools and teachers have been pushed into chaos. The status and salary differences among teachers have grown and become a serious problem. What kind of planning is this, and how is that an app? You really need to look into that. On the one hand, in response to our proposal for relevant questions, the official answer given by the Ministry of National Education in September will be said that there is a total need for 144,272 teachers, but on the other hand, science and technology will be stated that there is no need in any area other than mathematics, social information and Turkish majors, while in the second term last year, about 55,000 teachers will be charged as paid teachers, and then teachers will be tried to be appointed by joining classes and training on the other side because of lack of staff. As these are not enough, it is unfortunate that in recent days, the minister has compared teachers who have requested appointment to pigeons waiting for food in front of Eminönu Mosque. I'm inviting him to apologize. The additional teacher's appointment must be appointed immediately and these sacrifices must be terminated. And finally, the formalization of the graduates of science school must be ended and a solution must be found, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0007par0062	Thank you, Mr. Light. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has its presentations to the General Assembly...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0008par0065	Mr. President, there are promises.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0009par0066	Mr. President, we have a brief request.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0007par0067	Yeah, I'm gonna make a promise to our friends who are in the system. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0010par0071	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the worthy members of the High Assembly, whom we sincerely desire to address as the address of social reconciliation and resolution in the new legislature, to have a successful and productive time. Come, in the new year of law, let's make our great Assembly a coven of hope, not of conflict, not of peace, not of peace, not of pride, not of humility, not of humility, not of understanding, not of brute strength, not of kindness, not of dissolution, not of integration, not of discussion, of hope, of hope, of the past, but of the future. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0011par0075	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0012par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll repeat the same question every day until we have the voice of our farmers to the authorities. In our cities of Şanlıurfa, Aksaray and Diyarbakir, it has been blocked to support the grain in 2011. That's why our farmers were victims. We demand the Minister's end of this sacrifice. Two: In recent years our farmers who have received their support are also asked to return the amount they received with interest. Even if this is returned, the support programme for five years is not provided under Article 23 of Agriculture Law 5488. I demand that this sacrifice be put to rest. For the past two years, our farmers, who have lost their crops, have taken a hit along with the latest indigent receipts, and are on their way to the banks to pay off their debt. For this reason, our farmers who have been taking loans from banks recently are unable to pay their debts. I ask that the government take this into consideration, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0013par0083	Thank you. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0014par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. And I wish you the best of the new year of life. Mr. President, a pistachio is a very important product for Gaziantep. Last year, the red crustacean sold for 12 liras is not sold for 7-8 liras this year. Snow is sold at 20% less than last year, and it has no buyer. The grape was sold for 120 cents last year, while the manufacturer sold it for 120 cents, selling it for 40 to 45 cents this year, because last year grapes could be exported, and now they don't export grapes. At Gaziantep, the small tradesman is miserable. The Syrian tradesmen have been devastated. Therefore, I would like the High Assembly to recommend that the Gaziantep tradesman and producer take measures to compensate for his victimhood. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0015par0091	Thank you. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0016par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish the year of the new legislature to be good for our country, for our nation. I celebrate World Children's Day on October 1st. Our children are our future, everything. It is our duty for them to grow up in better conditions, to live in a safe country. We must leave our children a Turkey that looks forward to our future. I'd like to point out the subject of addiction in front of all the families in the coming years. In our country, smoking, alcohol, drug addiction is increasing day by day. We have to take the necessary precautions to protect our children from them. The second issue is the subject of Internet addiction in children. Internet addiction is also increasing day by day. Internet games and internet dependency are at the beginning of the biggest causes of children's failures. I'm waiting for our council to work in this direction, and I'm offering my respects.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0017par0100	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0018par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, a company in my constituency, Bolu, has been seeking to establish a company with a joint Chinese company -- a facility to produce electricity from fertilizer. However, there is a very serious resistance in Bolu. The reason is that they want to build a facility within the residential areas that they want to be built. Thus, no one can shed any light on the smell, damage to the environment, and damage to the underground waters of such a facility. There is no example of this facility yet in Turkey; it was built abroad in several places; when we looked at it, they were all built quite outside the settlements, and they were given licenses with very serious rules. However, the Bolu Governor's office does not need a report on such a facility. He replied to the company. You can't even get a CED report from this firm. There is a widespread rumor that one of the AKP's top executives is the company of their nephews. I'd like to ask the Minister.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0017par0106	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0019par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish that the new year of legislation would bring peace to the great Turkish nation, the Turkish world of Islam, and all mankind. I hope that the High Assembly makes laws that bring peace, destroy terror, exalt humanity, increase the welfare of our nation, and make decisions. Again, I hope and wish that the work that has been done will take the brotherhood to the place where the trial is, where the law is, where the poverty is, where the poverty is, where the oppression is, where the mercy is, where the cruelty is, where the mercy is. I wish everyone health and success in the new year of life.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0020par0114	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0021par0117	Mr. President, thank you very much. I'd like to ask the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism one day in the ranks of the Council of Ministers. In our central villages -- Gözede, Alaçam, Çızik villages -- they produce raspberries, which is 80 per cent of Turkish production. This year, the raspberry, which was sold in 2011 as 4-4.5 euros/kilograms, found a buyer for 1.5 euros/kilograms, as it remained in the branch in 2012. My question is: What countries, how many, in what months, in 2012, were the raspberries imported? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0022par0122	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Dağoğlu...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0023par0125	Mr. President, valued lawmakers cannot deny the role of children in the construction of countries' futures. I believe that children who embrace free and universal values will cross the borders between countries and even continents when they arrive at the decision-making positions of tomorrow. Today, many problems, such as child labor, infant mortality, poverty, domestic violence, schooling rates and wars, directly affect the welfare of children of the world, preventing them from looking at the world with children's innocence. There's no pink painting in front of our children, who are looking for a flower of care and attention and will sustain the human race. As president of the Turkish Neonatology Association, I sincerely hope that leaving them bright tomorrows is a goal that all nations can achieve in solidarity and with the expertise of relevant NGOs.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0022par0127	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0024par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, you know a new earthquake risk map has been announced. Here, on the explained map, Erzincan appeared again as the most risky zone. We have a hospital in Erzincan, a research hospital, and a public hospital in Erzincan. The closing of our state hospital is on the agenda, because there's no investment. Besides, we think the new university area needs to be re-examined. After 92 earthquakes in our villages, no research has been conducted. We're giving our opinion that serious work should be done on this. In this regard, we would like our hospital to continue by strengthening the earthquake risk map of Erzincan, by reviewing public buildings, and most importantly because of the absence of the hospital in 92. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0025par0135	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Chancer... Thank you very much, Mr. President. As Mr. Veli Agababa put it, the apricot manufacturers are in real trouble, but not only in Malatya, but also in Mersin. Apricots are a product of our own, so our country -- in a sense -- is a national product; it needs to be protected, it needs to be supported. Apricot producers, peach producers, citrus manufacturers, unfortunately, are damaged for some reason every year and have to cut down their garden. In Mut district of Mersin, apricot producers are really turning the land into gold. These people need to be supported. I demand that the government support the apricot producers, especially the marketing support. And thank you for your promise, Mr. President, with all due respect. Thank you, Mr. Shandir. We have friends who want more words, we apologize to them, we promise 10 people. So, I'm going to move on to the agenda now, and there are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Ergene River, which has been born from the star mountains to the Meric River and has categorized all of Thrace for nearly 300km, is constantly on the agenda because of its increasing pollution in recent years. More than a million people live around the Ergene River, in the region of Tekirdağ, Kırklareli, Edirne and the districts of the districts. Again, this is the busiest part of industrialization in the Thracian region. As today's useful use of the Ergene river, identified by experts in the 90s, increased pollution, caused irreparable damage. The water quality of the river will not be used in any situation with "very dirty water." The class is watery. In puberty, numerous chemicals such as lead, mercury, cadmium, cobalt, copper, heavy metals and arsenic have been detected. The Ergene river, which brought life to Thrace, surrounded by more than a thousand factories, is no longer flowing in its own color. Therefore, water pollution is not the only problem. Earth and its inhabitants receive their share of water pollution. Because of pollution, cancers have increased around the world and have been found by scientific studies of deaths. Agriculture is very important in the region, and the largest crops in the region are wheat, sunflowers, rice, sugarpancane, corn, chips, pumpkin seeds, and vegetables. Agriculture is also heavily affected by this pollution. In view of 63 per cent of all Turkey's sunflower production, 44% of rice production, 10% of wheat occurs in this region, it will also be understood that the problem is not just Thrace's problem. On the pollution of the Ergene river, politicians, scientists, experts, NGOs are making the same warnings and constantly expressing immediate measures. It's about something other than politics and politics. It doesn't matter which political party our people and children are living in the region and affected by pollution. That's management and state-of-the-art. However, Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs Veysel Eroglu, particularly Prime Minister of Prime Minister Ergene, misleads public opinion and accuses CHP municipalities of pollution by claiming that all municipalities on the Ergene River are CHP. However, municipalities in the region are from different parties, but the problem is fast and uncontrollable industry based on multi-water use. The result of this is that Thrace consumes underground water, as well as pollution. When the situation is so severe, it's unacceptable to try to discriminate against the problem by placing a political rant from such a grave picture. The subject needs to be discussed with more effective, scientific, and contemporary work. For this reason, pollution in the Ergene River, which is important to Turkey, especially Thrace, is too serious to make political material. For these reasons, the Constitution is 98, the 104th, to determine the extent of pollution in the Ergene River in all aspects and to determine measures that can be taken. And 105. We respectfully present the establishment of a Parliamentary Research Commission in accordance with the clauses. [[Tekirdağ]] [[Edirne]] [[Edirne]] [[Aydın]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Çanakkale]] [[40s.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] 10) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Antalya]] [[Malatya]] [[İzmir]] [[Erzincan]] [[Balıkesir]] 16) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 17) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Let's go.]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 20) The Way of Love in the womb [[İzmir]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On December 19, 2000, the founding of those responsible for the operations of prisons called "Back to Life" that resulted in the deaths of dozens of prisoners, the Constitution 98th, to be brought to justice by investigation into the planners, the rulers and the participants themselves, and to be shared with the public the full extent of the operations. And 104 of the TBM Civil Charter. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and offer the requirements for the opening of Parliamentary Research. [[Kars]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Not a single case has been filed against those who are responsible, as a fair trial has not been carried out on the operations of prisons called "Back to Life." Although 11 years have passed, the last of these unsolved events, in the Bayrampaşa Prison section, the signatures on the crime scene report have been forged, drawing attention back to these operations. The incidents in Bayrampaşa Prison where 12 prisoners died, 77 prisoners were injured, suggest that the prisoners shot each other and killed each other by burning each other. Moreover, the prisoners were judged by this report, where the signatures were forged, and there were documents that revealed the true dimensions of events, but they were ignored. Based on recent developments, the judicial process has been reported to have been carried out through non-real documents and statements that have been delayed from the beginning and that justice has not been served. The "Back to Life" operation, which took place in prisons on December 19-22, 2000 to implement F-type prisons, resulted in a level of carnage. 30 people were killed and 120 others were killed in hunger strikes as a result of operations into 20 prisons. More prisoners and convicts were held responsible for the incidents that occurred during the operation, the lawsuits against them were soon concluded and punishments were given. However, it was clear by whom the operational instructions were given, how they were planned, and by whom the law enforcement forces were acting. In cases, however, the names of those responsible were hidden, the crime scene reports of the intervention were not written or misregistered. Specialist Sergeant Nurettin Kurt, who died during the incident, was also reportedly shot by prisoners, and the autopsy revealed that a "high kinetic weapon" caused the fatal injury. Likewise, the report said that the gun that caused the death could only have been a Kalashnikov or a G-3 infantry rifle. Again, it was suggested that the prisoners used the picnic tubes found in the wards as explosives against law enforcement forces. The examination found that all the tubes in the ward were empty, unstructed, and unemployable. In addition, the allegations that it was false were attributed to the central kitchen system in prisons, which created a new chain of rights violations in prisons. Although it has been suggested by the Minister of Justice that prisoners who lost their lives had been engaged in conflict with soldiers and that some deaths had emerged from the conflict between prisoners, reports of forensic experts have found that these allegations were false. According to reports, gas bombs were used on the lethal dose, not fired from the wards. Women's prisoners were determined to have died in the fire of tear gas and tear gas bombs used by security guards. The coroner's report said that the women who were burned to death were found with flammable leftovers in their clothing and skin. The search for coal wards also revealed that there were no weapons. The expert's report also stated that there was no shooting in the direction of the guards from which the prisoners were found, and that the shots were fired from the outside. In addition, the case has not changed, even if intervening lawyers have indicated that the crime was committed against the common values of humanity in the cases of torture and cruel behavior. And there has been no investigation into the people who planned the operation, the people who led it, and the people who participated in it themselves. In an effort to address public pressure, cases have been filed against a number of soldiers and officers who were on guard during the operation. Although the massacre was tried to be forgotten by covering it up, the extent of the operation that has been revealed and emerging suggests that it was a legal scandal. In view of recent developments in Bayrampaşa Prison, it is seen that not a single person in charge has been punished; it is necessary to open parliamentary research to proceed bravely and decisively on the "Operation Return to Life" of victims and public conscience. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey's difficulties with wrongly applied policies in the field of electrical energy are hydroelectric plant projects and Eti Aluminum A.Ş. As part of its privatisation, we demand that Parliamentary Research be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to investigate the situation of the Oymapınar Hydroelectric Plant, which is free of charge, to determine measures that will ensure the establishment of a efficient and national energy policy. [[Antalya]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Malatya]] [[İzmir]] 5) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] 7) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Erzincan]] 9) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Let's go.]] 12) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 13) Mehmet Ali Sesame [[İzmir]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 15) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] 20) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 22) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[40s.]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 25) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] It is important that Turkey's economy reduces energy input costs in order to grow healthy and create employment. However, Turkey's foreign trade deficit is reaching the level of economic crisis due to energy imports, aside from lowering the inputs. The liberalisation of the energy field, particularly electricity, and the ban on public investing in this area, have not yielded results in Turkey's favour over the past 10 years. Price stability and supply security have not been achieved, necessary investments have not been made, Turkey's dependence on foreign sources in electricity has not been reduced. Turkey continues to produce electricity dependent on natural gas. Gas deals are also hidden from public and TBM on the grounds of "secret," while executives in other countries are tried for these agreements, while Turkish people cannot find out if there is a verdict against them. In addition to these fundamental errors, Turkey's resources are efficient and cannot be used to benefit the public due to privatisation practices. The Oymapınar Dam on the Manavgat River, one of Turkey's largest dams, was free of charge as part of the $305m Sejdişehir Etı aluminum privatisation. The prosecution has cancelled the privatisation process due to this situation, but instead of implementing the State's decision, the government has applied to the original trade court to reclaim the factory and the dam. By the way, Privatisation Administration, Electricity Production Inc.Some hydroelectric power plants' tenders for 49-year transfer of operating rights. In these tenders, the 1 megawatt board is given 4-5 million dollars for power, with 540 megawatts of power, and 49 years of operating costs over $2 billion are against the public interest of the Oymapınar HES. In addition, electricity was sold to the system at the cost of privatisation through the Oymapınar HES, given for free. In a sense, the government bought electricity from the power plant he gave away for free, even though it was worth over $2 billion. In the ten-year period in which the AKP is in charge, the total electricity production of electricity from imports has not been reduced. Turkey's coal potential has been put on hold and encouraged to produce electricity with imported coal. While many countries from the sun have produced serious electricity, Turkey has not improved in this regard. Turkey has not been able to assess its renewable resources beyond water and at the desired level. Due to the lack of price stability, constant increases have been raised, and our producer has not been offered electricity at the price of competition for our industrialist. Due to the failure of the missing fugitive rates, the public who paid their bills regularly has also continued to pay the missing fugitive price. There are serious risks to supply security, especially in some areas during the summer. For these reasons, the study of the Parliament is required to be opened to determine the problems caused by electricity production and autonomy practices, the measures that would lead to providing cheap and uninterrupted electricity for our producers, industry, and citizens. Members of parliament, three motions for the opening of the parliamentary investigation have been submitted to your information. The motions will take place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs from the Commissions. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the 3rd ranking draft of the Common Business Relations Act and the European Union's Compliance Commission on Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission reports. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed by 197 rows of numbers. Congressmans, according to the decision taken, this bill will be discussed under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the entire bill, Mr. İdris Baluken is a Bingol MP. Here you go, Mr. Bauken. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0026par0331	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the bill of collective relations, ranking 197. I salute your committee. First of all, I wish the new legislature to be a blessing to our country, to our country, to our country. Instead of a working ground that fights, argues, cracks, breaks, and does not provide solutions, I would like to express here our expectation of a work that is boldly approaching the real problems of the country in the new era, revealing decisive will in this regard. My fellow lawmakers, the working life is organised by laws 2821 and 2822, which, in its current case, contain the illegal and authoritarian mentality of the coup from the 1980 military coup. These laws also discussed the design of working life in the general spirit of 80 military coups, especially in the case of workers, including the many rights that should be in the presence of the workers, which put obstacles in the way of organisation, such as the general public benefit of the strike, and the scope of the strike is uncertain and open to interpretation to prevent the strike. The changing economic structures, developing organisations, facilitating access to information, the laws that carry the mindset of impact have stirred up a general belief in our society that they are now an obstacle to working life. (x) 197 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. However, the AKP has again shown to all our people that it has an approach, which is the continuation of an 80-military coup on the right to collective contract, union organisation and strike in 2010 and in the new constitutional process, to bring in the next Community Relations Act as it currently exists, to bring in the Unional Organization, collective contract and strike, and to the continuation of the banned mindset of the 80 military coups. With either a change in the conditions for collective contracting or a limitation of union freedoms, the right to strike will also lead to the continued impact of the 80 coup spirit on working life, much less the Bill of Public Affairs, rights and freedom. However, during the referendum period and the promised contract, strike and organizational freedom demands, the right of union for everyone by the majority of the community and employees, to be given the right to join the union and to be a member of the union, to have the right to freely organise their own internal operations, to free their own executives, to choose their own executives, to establish multilevel public bargaining and collective contract arrangement, to build a business arm dam, to reduce the labour dam, to remove obstacles in front of the collective contract, to define the unions as organisations as organisations representing all workers, to have the right to be allowed to choose their own operations, and to exercise the rights of freedom of collective agreements, and to be granted by the rights of workers, and by the right to be given by the right of labour dam and by the means of the workers. Precious lawmakers, despite demands in the new constitution in all these processes, despite the promises made in the referendum, it is safe to say that the AKP has provided dynamite for the political and economic sustainability of Turkey's society by creating a small part of its underprivileged labor force, creating privatisations, raisings, middle and low income levels in society -- if necessary -- by trying to destroy the public's political and economic sustainability. At this point, the AKP stands in front of us with a bill within the plan and programme to exploit labour. Even here, we need to discuss the Common Business Charter freely, because there is a reality that, especially since the 19th century, the union, the strike and the collective contract definitions, which have been shaped by the struggle of workers and workers, are not carefully used even when the name of this law is determined. However, we know that these new definitions of the AKP are not merely defined, but also include some economic goals. The AKP aims to create a non-union, unorganised and underprivileged labor force, especially by taking away trade union freedoms and union organisation from its right to strike after a certain phase of disposing of its right to strike, by taking away trade unions' power to form collective contracts. The only thing AKP understands about democracy is the concept of democracy that the Prime Minister uses, and it's not enough gold, the people of Turkey know very well. Especially when the working life of industrial life is assessed in terms of the concept of industrial democracy, we can make it clear that the AKP's advanced democracy did not fall into democracy as part of this bill brought to the General Kurula. First of all, it's important to make clear that there are some democratic foundations in working life. Here you have to talk about three pieces: the freedom of strike, collective contract and organization in working life is essential for the rights and freedom demands of working life. When the bill is reviewed, it will be seen that the authority to make a collective contract is subject to a thousand challenges, with dams, with terms of authorization. In the same way, the freedom to organize is a necessity to depend on the state. Finally, the right to strike is made impossible by mediation and many more obstructions. Thus, we can say that a AKP practice, which has generally approached social problems with the expression of democracy, but does not cover it, has also come to us in the same way in working life. Dear lawmakers, it is inevitable that union organisation with the relevant provisions of this bill in front of us will cause a setback. A bill aimed at determining the numbers of the union boards has nothing to do with union organisation and union freedom. However, as an international norms and as a social state, it is essential to approach the opening of union freedoms and organisation as indispensable to working life. Another regulation area of the Common Business Relations Bill is the establishment of a union and membership. The aim is to provide a narrowing arrangement for the organization of employees in a wide range of areas of study. The term for not being a member of more than one union is that employees are asked to be removed from the collective contract table in a stronger way. In addition, we must point out that we are faced with an arrangement that will allow the union to blow if I am in the right place of union freedom, leaving the conditions under the authority of the public authority to determine the internal functioning of the unions. In a narrow range of accession to the union, we can say that it aims to keep a lot of work spaces away from the working life, especially from the home staff, interns, apprentices, pensioners, and pensioners. Even so, it is necessary to state that there is a situation in particular in violation of International Labour Organization Convention 87, which regulates trade union freedom. When we examine the article in the Common Business Charter, which defines the concept of the concept of the union, we see a constraint that the relationship between union members and the union cannot be pushed out of their labor processes. Seeing an employee is just his hard work and maintaining an understanding like that, accepting a restraining order that brings it, is equivalent to missing out on the employee as a human and a social entity. We see that this approach, which excludes the fact that unionisation is the return of a social network, outsources itself here, along with the definition of the syndika. Again, the bill enjoins the necessity of one confederation by pushing the definition of "federation" out of the law. While modern democracies are being proactive at the point of union organisation, we can say that a bill for collective business relations and a bill for the workers in Turkey to organise in a narrow and restricted area. It is impossible to make a modern law on working life with an understanding that the unions are forced to work, and the workers are forced to work, as well as to ignore the organization of the federation. Honourable MPs, trade unions, as well as public service, bring with them a civilian, internal structure, as well as a target audience and a struggle. So it's based on the struggle for people who are involved and who are part of it, as well as the work that concerns and affects all the public. The functional structure of trade unions can provide a healthy structure through the development of internal control networks for trade unions. At this point, the Common Business Relations Legislature, in a covert way, envisioned blocking the pathways of active control channels, as well as political authority control under oath. In addition, it is also a difficult situation to foresee the audit of sworn financial advisors in union branches. Because it is the necessity and precondition of democratic culture that they can provide their own internal controls from the smallest unit of union movements to their headquarters. In particular, the Peace and Democracy Party, as we have noted in its commission and phases, consider it a positive step towards the removal of the notary clause in the process of accession and non-membership of the union. However, the notary obligation is also needed to highlight the problems of the e-state system. In particular, we can all predict the problems that the e-government system, which is approaching people as different social beings, will bring about. For example, while working in a certain time period, a member of a union whose world view is on a certain side will be subject to a study by the owner of a new job application by the owner of an e-governmental information, even though he left the union after leaving the workplace. In some cases, the reflection of its social life will be discriminated against in the labour market. As I have pointed out, given that humans are world-viewed and social beings, it is clear that e-state implementation will bring with it a lot of problems. It also has the potential to appear on several occasions as a violation of the privacy of life because of an inequality relationship between workers and employers. Dear lawmakers would like to remove the collective rights of trade unions serving in some working areas by making the bill mandatory at high levels of business and business thresholds, and to remove collective agreements in some working areas as well. If the bill aims to regulate its working life in harmony with the need to be a social state and in harmony with international rules and practices, it must come from a symbolic representational level, such as in countries with developed industrial democracy, either to remove the dam proposed by the International Labour Organization. Another important point here is the condition of nearly 1 million subcontractors. Subcontractors are not entitled to union organisation and collective agreements. In terms of working life, subcontractor workers, the largest component of modern working life around the world, are deprived of these union rights, which is, in its lightest sense, a disaster. The draft law does not bring any regulation on the union rights of subcontractors, such as the previous ones. Current subcontractors -- as the TOGO resistance shows -- see the result of unionisation without job guarantees -- are being fired. Again, a number of regulations are set to be made at the point of determining authority and authority objections to collective agreements with the Common Business Charter. In addition to the Ministry's claim that the number of workers closest to the truth has been determined, many problems have been followed when we consider the same procedures for positive and negative detection. If the number closest to the truth is being detected, it is not wrong to predict that the application will only be a time-consuming tool. Again, the bill and the number of business branches are reduced and the business is melted into a common hoop and a demand that employers have wanted for a quarter of a century has been asked. Talks with social parties regarding the draft legislation have been removed from the provision of the collective contract of employment, which states that collective agreements cannot be used to prevent collective contract of employment. The arrangement in this regard is appropriate and necessary in terms of the spread of the right to collective contract in the long term, the development of union organisation and the implementation of basic rights and freedoms. However, if such an application cannot be carried out, the proposal has come to the attention of the majority of those who have been excluded to prevent significant loss of rights in the agreed-upon workplaces. This proposal should be considered not only to benefit from the contract, but only to ensure that the collective arrangement at work exists permanently. As a matter of fact, all employees must be adopted by the principle of taking advantage of the contract. In order to ensure the internal stability of the bill and the expected social benefit of the collective contract of employment, from all this, the bill must be replaced by the materials that regulate the collective contract of employment. Dear lawmakers, you need to pay attention to the rights of the next bill to strike. In view of the provisions of the bill concerning the strike, it is understood that when drafting the articles of the law, it is as if there were no strike demands, because in the previous phases of working life, the use of the strike rights has been put in the way of the union struggle, and there has been a considerable number of obstacles, and arrangements for preventing the use of the right to strike. First of all, the lack of political bans and bans on opening banners and opening tents around unions are likely to be the fear of the government from the Tekel resistance in 2010. In view of the amendments related to the strike, the mandatory intermediary phase, the postponement of the strike, the penalty predictions, the limitation of the strike rights, and the restrictions imposed on working through the High Referee Board and the press are regulations for blocking the right to strike. These insights, each of which produced the mindset of September 12th, are unfortunately included in the Common Business Charter. As a result of the union's flawed movement, the declaration that the union is responsible for the financial damage caused by the strike could also be viewed as a reflection of September 12th mentality. In addition to this clause, the provision of the Council of Ministers in particular envisioning a postponement of the right to strike has also indicated the continuation of the same prohibitive mentality. The right to strike must be organised without a preconditioned intermediary process, by the principle of modern working life, social state and international norms. The strike rights are defined as the only force for accepting the workers' demands in the collective contract. As the Peace and Democracy Party, we demand that all obstacles to the strike be lifted, the strike ban framework be narrowed down, and that the public stop interfering with the right to strike through phases such as mandatory mediation, the High Referee Board, for modern working life and industrial democracy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear lawmakers, there are significant risks such as passing the Common Business Charter through the General Assembly as such, not having a reunification with social parties, and not having adequate regulations in the matter that reflect the impact mentality. That's why the bill must be withdrawn from the General Assembly and to be searched for a common ground again, and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0027par0362	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the Samsun MP, Mr. Jamalettin Lightning. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0028par0367	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to welcome you on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the bill for industrial relations that regulates the working life of our country in 197. I hereby salute your esteemed delegation. Dear lawmakers, as we all know, this bill was discussed by the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission in March, and was agreed upon by social parties, and will be brought to Parliament's agenda immediately. After all this time, it's only been brought to Parliament's attention. So when we're being discussed in the Commission, I think it's also a question of whether or not collective agreements can be made before this law can be passed, so that the union workers will be very victimised, and all the groups agree on the immediate release of this law, so what happened is the fact that what hand and why it was postponed today, I think, is also a question of interest by you valued lawmakers. What I understand from here is that we insist on saying these laws, valued lawmakers, we can't do it, we're doing our duty on a notary mission, that's all. In countries, one of the key indicators of democracy and human rights today is the relationship of labour and capital. The rights and interests of social parties are important in showing the functioning of democracy in our country, in accordance with international norms. Politically speaking, there are opinions that only stand for labor and employee, excluding the other sides, as well as those who side with the employer and the capital. As the National Movement Party, we believe that these business relations should be in the context of basic rights and freedoms, in the framework of the ILO contracts and all the agreements Turkey signed, human-focused, covering the country's conditions, protecting the rights and interests of social parties. According to our conclusion, these arrangements are not just for the workers and the employers, as there are third sides of the society that will be affected by these arrangements. In the context of what we said up there, we, the National Movement Party, think that all of this should be considered in a collective agreement. Dear MPs, is it really possible to make these arrangements with this government, as we explained up there? We find that the answer is essentially hidden in the process of removing this law. Why was this law brought to this day, six to seven months later, in the process of landing in the full House? So it's clear from here whether it's about eating grapes or beating up the farmer. We also have a law on this matter. If you make the law with logic, you can't replace the stones. Today, those who say that our country has survived some custody, there is no way that they can say that what happened during the release of this law is not an imposition and custody. I'd like to make it clear that a lot of the laws made in Parliament today are under custody. Can we really say that these laws are made by the free council's will? Custody is custody, my friends, it's not military or civilian. Today, the Prime Minister is acting as a ward of the House, and unfortunately, he gets custody elsewhere. My fellow lawmakers, when we look at the point where our country is coming today, socially, politically and economically, I'd like to ask the Prime Minister this. Mr. Prime Minister, you've changed and improved in 2002. You've taken the nation's trust and you've been in power for ten years. How have you really changed and flourished? We haven't understood that in ten years. What were you before, what are you now? Why did you feel the need to change? Can it be changed by saying, "We've changed and evolved?" I'd like to share with you an example of how the Prime Minister has changed and improved his view of democracy: In many speeches, the Prime Minister says that they have come to power by the vote of the nation -- which of course is true -- and therefore, for him, that the opposition has no right to criticize their actions, that the opposition has no right to do right, that the opposition has no right to ignore the opposition by linking the votes that have been taken. At times, I would like to remind the Prime Minister that he has not been democratic in his work. But the prime minister, who said so, also makes his own self-determinations, claiming that every republic government established before them had done wrong, made mistakes, and, unfortunately, they could not manage the country well, could not manage it well, and could not judge them with cruel and awkwardness, without looking at time and grounds. I would like to remind Mr. Prime Minister that all the governments of the Republic of Turkey, established before your governments, are based on the will and majority of the people in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. If the governments established on the basis of the majority of the nation -- I want to make it clear to you, Mr. Prime Minister's logic -- were not to make mistakes, then why do you criticize them so harshly from time to time for making mistakes? Did they make a mistake? Of course they did. Here, Mr. Prime Minister, I'm saying you should think again, whether you can make a mistake or not. In order to be in power in democracies, of course, you have to get the majority of votes within the system, but whether or not to make mistakes is unfortunately not the right proportion of power. Participants democracy is needed right here. Remember, in history, Hitler, Mussolini, and many dictators have been in power with the majority of votes, but they have finally led their nation on an adventure. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I can't help but point out some of the most recent issues. You know, the AKP has been running our country for over a decade now. This is the picture that we come across at the end of the decade: in domestic politics, the country has reached the point of division. Now we're talking about how the country will be divided, and we're talking about how it will be. The process, confederate or federation, is discussed here, in Oslo, here, on the necessary grounds, on unnecessary grounds. Also, in the foreign policy of zero problems, thankfully, there are no neighbouring countries without problems. The economic situation we face in this period of time is that in a sense, the importance of our country has been sold, and now there is no place to privatise, the 2/B and the treasury land have been set up with the necessary laws. Despite all of this, our country's domestic and external debt has grown abnormally, its foreign trade balance has been corrupted in the direction of imports, and its currents have reached extremely dangerous levels. The government has found the easy way to make a living, and when it is stuck, the government has chosen to address its own burden by increasing the ETV and other taxes. There was no need for you to bring Mr. Ali Babacan, of the United States, nor Mr. Mehmet Simsek, of England. The more open it is, the higher it is, and that's how it's done. I don't think there's any need to recruit for this simple math account. Imagine that in one country, taxes are again taxed on taxed earnings, and even the VAT is taken back, and it's being robbed by the logic of a citizen bandit. This can't be called tax. Taxing, of course, is sacred, but the money earned is taxed once. As a result, our country has become the most expensive fuel in the world, and agriculture and livestock are unfortunately finished due to input costs. Dear lawmakers, the last debate was on the agenda after a round of applause at last Sunday's AKP Congress. No sir, we applaud not him, but the Prime Minister. The panic of being caught red-handed, and the effort to make various explanations, unfortunately, is involved. My dear friends, why don't you clap after you invite that pessimist over there? The point is, why was the follow-up called there, in what capacity? What is a person who you feel ashamed of clapping and not applauding, and we applauded the Prime Minister. What is he doing there that you need to explain? Why are you in a panic? Why do you stop clapping for someone you invite as guest of honor? I'm afraid you don't have the right to make such a fool out of the Turkish nation for voting against all your wrongs. Dear lawmakers, the government's point of view, unfortunately again, is coming up with some flaws in the Common Business Relations Bill, which has been sent down to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It is clear that both public employees and employees in the private sector are not bringing new gains. The amendments to the Law on Public Trade Unions, which passed before the Parliament, were arranged in the form of a collective contract, rather than a collective meeting. Dear lawmakers, whether it's a collective contract or a public meeting, if its contents do not yield a profit for public employees -- which it does not -- because it is unfortunately known that a text that does not have the right to strike will not mean anything just by changing its name, but only by being eye-painted. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, in order to make an assessment of working life in Turkey, industrial relations, I think we should first look at the conditions in Turkey where employees work, how they are met with contracts set by Turkey's entity. If we profile those who work in Turkey today, 1) Government employment, 2) It appears as a private sector employment. In government employment, 1) State officers are subject to Law 657, and the number is 1,800. 2) The contracted staff, described as (οnly 4/b/b) people, are 200,000 people. 3) The temporary staff, referred to as ▪4/Cίliί, are 40,000 people. Other than that, they are workers of 4/D. Other than that, there are about 500,000 people working in sub-employees in sub-employee companies that we can call sub-employers in the state, and there are 2 million people working in the private sector again. Turkey has 10 million pensioners and about 2,600,000 unemployed. The total number is said to be around 11 million, according to statements. Of all these employees in Turkey, the number of union workers in the public and private sector is unfortunately around 600,000 today. In 2000, the number of union workers was around 800,000. In fact, the law that we're now discussing, which, according to us, is set in front of us, includes only 600,000 union workers from 11 million insured workers. In addition to the fact that this law does not include certain democratic norms, it does concern only 600,000 union workers and of course it is thought that other workers are not unionists. I'd like to point out that the number of union workers in our country has been reduced over the years. Currently, its fate is run only between the employer's two lips, with 200,000 public contracts, 40,000 temporary staff, 500,000 public employees, and millions of employees in the private sector, without job guarantees and no rights. In Turkey, the number of union workers during this period of government has unfortunately declined. In 2000 -- as previously stated -- the number of union workers was around 800,000, while 600 thousand trade unions are mentioned today. That's what the AKP called democracy. In my opinion, I believe we should discuss these matters before the Bill of the Common Business Affairs Act. While the number of union workers is growing in our country, while millions of people are running out of job security, I would like to say that I find it not very meaningful to discuss the content of this law brought in. Dear lawmakers, when we look at this law on business relations, there are many flaws and contradictions in it. For example, limiting people who will serve as employers under the management of businesses in Article 2 is incompatible with the actual operations of businesses. In Article 6 (Defense 6) it is stated that real or legal persons with a verb license under the title of Kuricitism have the right to form a union at any workplace, to form a union for those who have no business with trade unionism or even non-students, which we believe can cause significant problems for our country in particular in terms of trade unionism. Besides, in no country in the world, it is unfortunately not allowed to form a union for those who do not speak the language of the country. In many countries around the world, the law on business relations is different, unique, and it never contradicts European norms in terms of the law on business relations. In Article 17, there is a condition that the second workplaces of workers who work under the same business body under the title of Union membership and accession can belong to more than one union, provided they belong to different employers. However, in terms of trade union freedoms, the worker's second workplace must also be owned by the same employer, as well as by more than one union. Article 18... and the procedure and the basis for the collection of membership dues under the title of the membership dues under the organisation's regulations and the organisation's collection of membership dues by the ministry would be the means for the Ministry's authority to maintain political pressure on trade unions. We think it's a work to weaken and destroy the unions. It is important that the government demonstrates its intentions, even though employees and employers agree on the collection of membership dues, but this consensus has not been reflected in the bill. As it turns out, trying to contain the unions on a financial issue that is important for them to operate and survive is unfortunately increasing political pressure on the unions. We believe that there should be at least two years of notarization and a period of withdrawal from union membership under the title of Article 19........ because we are concerned that there may be some mistakes made in the withdrawal of the e-state gate alone. Article 29... ▪ Under the title of control and transparency of the establishment, we feel that it is important to ensure that once every two years financial audits on the revenues and costs of the institutions will not benefit the establishment, except to add an additional expense to the establishment, and that it should be carried out as a result of the administration's accountability in the general boards. Such unnecessary and inappropriate audits will do no more than create a burden. The agency will simply take care of it and pay its fee and put it aside because it will not answer anywhere. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We also have valuable lawmakers on other substances, our motions. We're running out of time here, so I can't read these. However, I wish that this Law on Collective Business would be a blessing to our nation, and I hereby salute you once again.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0029par0405	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0030par0406	Mr. President, I'd like to point out one thing: here, especially in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, when it's being used in order to address neighbouring heads of state or neighbouring parliaments, there should be a certain diplomatic courtesy, and you should have a duty and responsibility to protect it. A disproportionate manner and discussion is being carried out on the president of the neighbouring Federal Kurdistan Regional Administration, who has been coming to our country for two days to attend the ruling party's congress. We expect you to be involved in this, because our Parliament, in general, has to show such sensitivity to all statesmen in all matters.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0029par0407	Thank you. Your words have been made, sir.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0031par0409	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0029par0410	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0031par0411	It is clear and clear that the state of the Republic of Turkey will not have a regional government and its equal value. Thus, speaking on behalf of the National Movement Party, our dear friend speaking on behalf of the group has taken the position that the state of the Republic of Turkey should take. So I'd like to go and say that it is against the national will of the Turkish Armed Forces to be sent to the north of Iraq by the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to eliminate PKK terror organization.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0029par0412	Thank you, Mr. Vural. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0032par0416	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, first of all, I wish that our new era of work would bring peace and peace to our country, our nation, and with these feelings, I salute the High Council with respect and love. My dear friends have finally brought an important law to the agenda of the House of Justice. The heart would wish that he could equate the entire process of this law with the statement of a pro-democracy expressed by the AKP earlier. The law we're talking about today is a law developed by September 12th law. The heart would wish that the AKP ruling, who claims to be able to settle the score on September 12th, or who meets this statement, had indeed been sensitive to the change of the law, which eliminates the traces of September 12th, and does not allow those remains of September 12th to be traced within that law. Now, over the years, the working class of this country, the workers, the union movement, wants to continue with this law to open a road that will go to almost zero right now to pay for the bill imposed by the generals of September 12th. My dear friends, what is the real practice? In order for the January 24th resolutions to be implemented, generals passed a ceberut law that day in order to rein in the union movement, to implement those decisions, those economic decisions, and they cut off the trade union movement, destroyed the freedom of organization, looted it. And now, after this painting has been put on the table, this so-called new reform, which has been brought to our attention under the name of the new reform, I really, truly wish that there was a law that could be changed in favor of this reform, or in favor of the workers, that we would support it to the end as the opposition party. Let me make this very clear: Do we need this law in Turkey? I do. Is such a change necessary? I do. Because it's not today's problem, it's been 30 years of workers, workers, and laborers, they've been oppressed, they've become poor. Now, if there could be hope, if there could be hope again, and if there really was a chance that union freedoms could be used, while we're carrying hope, we're seeing that this law comes through with some regulations, some practices, sometimes even the generals don't dare. I wish it wasn't like this. On the one hand, the government is always looking for a compromise, negotiating with social parties, meeting with TİSK, Turkish-Ismail, TOBB, Hak-Bust, other organisations are calling, but the main thing is, there's no approach to looking for a consensus in parliament, at least to putting forward the agreement that has been reached in parliament. It doesn't exist, actually. There's no consensus here. Even small sparks, perhaps a little hope in the commission, which we discussed with the commission on this law, are being turned upside down by some of the motions that are now required to be brought in, my dear friends. Now, as far as the essence of this law is concerned, even small sparks that will shed some light on the important part of it that can transform in favor of the workers are now facing the point of extinction. A law so hopeful has suddenly reached the point of being transformed into a pessimism, a hopelessness, an area where freedom is really re-disputed. My dear friends, we've been discussing the law for ten years. For ten years, when I've been part of his process, when I'm DİSK President, other confederate heads, the issues we've met with the employers' organisations, which we've come to the agreement at one stage, have been turned upside down again, redesigned by some employers' organisations, which have been held in the Council of Ministers for a long time at the request of some employers. Some names in the Council of Ministers do not sign this law, are revised, and then come to Parliament. I'll see you at the Commission after you come to the House. The Commission's decision, Parliament's will, all being thrown away, the four confederations and the Prime Minister, our relevant Labour Minister, are coming together, and they say this form of the Commission is not good. What do you have to do? We need to turn this against the workers a little more! One of my systems is for the unions that contribute to this process. I understand the employers' organisations, and I understand the will of the employers' organisations to protect their own interests, of course, but trade unions, union organisations, whose name is syndika, if they had put a will to stand up against this arrangement that they wanted to be executed, at least they wouldn't have shot themselves and the working class in the future. Because with this arrangement, we've agreed to an arrangement that defines the freedom of organization in the workplaces of at least 30 people, which we call partial improvements, which has passed through the Commission, but is now being rescinded by a motion following the Commission. What's it made of? Because union security is being eliminated for businesses that have under 30 employees there. All efforts, all wills, are being put into place about the absence of organized society in this country. Dear friends, over the years in terms of collective contract of employment, the Turkish International Labour Organization has been ahead of its previous name, Unions Act 2821, and Group Business Convention 2822, for decades on the Law on Strike and Lokavat Law, and has been found to be serious obstacles. In each convention, among the first twenty-five countries with rights violations -- which we describe as "Application Committee" in each meeting -- Turkey has kept Turkey on this list, and Turkey has been questioned about union rights violations. What's the point? The dam. Now, dear friends, this is about the law that's been brought in... and since it's one of the most important parts of the job, I'll make it clear that our other friends will then, of course, talk about it in terms of matter. Now, in order for a collective contract of employment, a union had to pass 10 per cent of the workers working in the line of work according to the previous law. So, for example, 850,000 workers had to make 85,000 members of a notary in a business division. With this new change, this ratio is now reduced to 1 percent. When I was reduced to 1%, I remembered the story of Nasrettin Hoxha. Nasrettin Hodja owed a debt to a man, and he said, "Why don't you pay this debt?" How much do I owe? If I give you five dollars a week, what's left? What's left? Next week I'll give you five dollars? What's left? It's down to five dollars, he says: What's left if I give you five dollars next week? Aren't you ashamed to talk to me for five dollars? And now it's created: 10 percent falls to 1 percent; when it falls to 1 percent, look, 9 points are erased, 9 points are eliminated, and the front of the union movement opens up. Dear friends, there's a complete illusion here -- I'm telling you right now, there's one percent of that down here -- there's records in the hands of the minister -- at least ten trade unions -- in the case of the current system being implemented with 1 percent -- in the case of collective agreements, depending on the Turkish-work, the right-work-related, the DİSK can't get past the 10 union dams. Then, with the new proposal, they didn't like him after our commission, and they said, "That's 1 percent." Now let's take 1 percent gradually to 2 per cent, 3 per cent... ▪ Now those motions will come. Now, when it's looked at, in a country, where the dam, dear friends, needs to fall the other way, the dam is being climbed. In fact, in the future, there will be twenty-nine trade unions, if they go from 2 to 3 per cent, if they go from 2 per cent to 3 per cent, we will not be able to cross the dam, we will not have collective agreements. So this system is brought in, dear friends, and the most important problem is its application of the dam. Now, temporary solutions are being produced, so let's not touch what's available to him... but the essence of this law is: freedom of organization. It's the event where the obstacles to freedom of organization have been removed, regardless of its non-confederation point. Look, earlier in the AKP ruling referendum, there was a lot of writing written on billboards saying that democracy will be liberated. They said -- Mr. Prime Minister -- we're going to go around the square -- we're going to remove obstacles in front of Gruv, we're going to give more than one union member. From the meeting, he became a talker. That's the engagement. It's the contract that's seen to apply to officers. Now, the Impotence, which has promised to remove obstacles in the face of the strike, has done it, it has now done it. I'll tell you how he went through it: a pirate taxi law was arranged in the air business, and in that line of work he brought the strike ban that even generals had never dared, which September 12th did not have the courage to do. Now, when the air brought out a strike ban in the line of work, it was like this: when the strike ban came, the barriers were already lifted. When you take the strike away, you don't get blocked or anything. So, the AKP's Power, when all its applications are looked at, is actually a good illusion, by developing this process with another formula, which is actually pushing ahead a process that is more blocking the process, more destroying the freedoms, more narrowing the trade union field. Dear friends, right now, I know that 1,700 businesses are waiting for a contract, and I know that 350,000 workers are waiting for a contract. Of course, it is incumbent on us to discuss this law, to contribute to it in any way, in a constructive sense of opposition. They just made a nice gesture, so let's hand it over. We're not here to discuss the matter yet, but we said, "The Law of Public Business." You want to make the unions forget, you want to lift the term "sensitual." Let us make the name of this law, instead of collective business relations, the law on syndicates and collective contract of employment. One step was taken here, and the other group was signed by our vice presidents. It's a nice thing to change its name like this, a beautiful step that caressssss us, caresss the union movement, but if we don't fill it, it'll leave you empty again, and if we keep these obstacles here, it won't be called the law of syndications, it'll be called the law of relationships, which will move to a point where relationships can be transformed into other relationships, and I'm telling you that first and foremost. Here, of course, we have problems starting with this procedure over the years. Look, to the judicial processes, workers now organized in many new businesses expect the contract to be made immediately. Tens of thousands of workers fired because they were union workers are still on the streets, and tens of thousands of workers are still on the streets because they're using their constitutional rights because most of them are unionists. Come, if we want to do something really neat, by taking into account the opposition parties here, by conciliating this process, by conciliating with the other, with the unional actions that are only on the sidelines, not with employers' organisations, but with different union understandings, and with trade organisations in different identities, we will take this place into a collective agreement, because we will discuss this new system -- valuable friends, materials -- but the tri-bar system that ILO has not agreed on. The first dam... I just told you, so the dam doesn't go down from 10% to 1%. Some business interests go up to 16 percent, some business interests to 22 percent. Once the dam continues. What's the second dam? You have to be a member of 50 percent of the workers at work. By the time he finds 51 percent, most of the workers, especially white-collar, civil servant status, are therefore unable to get the right to join the union. The union movement has already chosen to achieve a 50% majority. A third dam, a business dam. Now they're saying, "Well, it was 50 percent, so we reduced it to 40 percent. Dear friends, taking 40 per cent of many important businesses in Turkey in that sense, over 50 or 40 per cent of private sector businesses outside of those businesses in the state, and I say that the trade unions have performed a miracle, and we give them medals. So, we're in agreement, we're in dialogue, against this arrangement, which is filled with obstacles, that destroys this union movement. Once the dialogue is called not only outside, but once in Congress... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] -... More than that, I salute the High Council with respect, with love. (Applause from CHP rows Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. On behalf of the groups, the last speaker is Mr. Mehmet Domac, İstanbul MP on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Mr. Domach, here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the draft of Public Affairs Act 197. I hereby wish to welcome you to our country, to our nation, to our new year of life. Dear lawmakers are the history of trade union fighting; the history of fighting for human rights, democracy, and human rights. In the world, the union movement was born after the industrial revolution, as the conditions of work became increasingly humane, as a result of the solidarity of workers against the exploitation of labor. It's the essential element of democracy, the union movement. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, capitalism emerged in the 17th century. The widespread use of steam power in production has increased the efficiency of production of looms, technical machines, and large factories have been established. The growing need for labor in industry has led people to start working in factories, cutting agriculture. Capital owners forced workers to work for very low wages to increase capital savings and to grow. In the 1800s, the conditions of life were unimaginably heavy. Over the years, workers' diseases, lack of insurance by accident, lack of pensions, lack of annual, weekly permits, lack of job safety and job security, labor during more than 16 hours a day has led to workers entering solidarity, raising rights demands. In those years, the workers' demands for their rights were more heavily suppressed. In spite of everything, workers have shown their reaction to their misery, and from time to time, they have increased their struggle. The development of capitalism, industry, has increased the number of workers. The workers who shared the same fate gradually entered into the tendency to defend their common interests. The workers developed a sense of unity and solidarity. At first, solidarity associations have established organizations as they think they can help. The aim of these organizations was to help the worker himself and his family in the event of accident, illness, death. In the beginning, organized organizations became interested in wages, working conditions. With support polls, the associations eventually became a union. It wasn't easy, the laws that were passed and the unions tried to be banned. Honourable MPs, the unions first appeared in England as the cradle of the industrial revolution. In England, in the 18th century, unions were recognized by the state. In 1871, workers seized the government in Paris. You all know they formed a Paris Commune, but it didn't last long. In 1884, the unions earned the right to organize in France, in Germany, in the middle of the 19th century. The unions became active organizations in the 20th century, but the world's monopoly began to form, the number of workers increased rapidly, the competition became harsh, and a fierce struggle arose. In the fight over the sharing of the world markets, World War I emerged. In 1910, 3 million organised workers opposed the war and demanded peace. In 1939, the end of the war, which ended in 18, with World War II, to reevaluate the world market share, this time the unions, working classes, working class, German-based fascists resisted the regimes in Italy, and Spain. The unions have been on the side of peace throughout their history. Unions sided with democracy. The unions became anti-teamists. Unions fought for human and human life. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, there have been developments in unionisation in our country in parallel with industrial relationship development, but in the pre-Republic period, we can't evaluate this development very much. In those years, there were associations, and they were trying to defend the workers' rights at work. The first law on business in Turkey was adopted in 1936 by Law No. 3008 and the right to strike and collective contract was not included in this law. After World War II, the Law on Unions No. 5018 was adopted in 1947. And here was a strike, a collective contract union law that had not been passed. Therefore, we do not see the right to a collective contract or strike in the law adopted in 1947 after the republic. After 1961, along with laws 274 and 275, concepts such as strike, collective contract, lockout entered the law, and thus came up with a law that first evaluated all elements of the industrial relations system in our country. Unfortunately, with the Constitution of September 12, 1980, Unions Act 2821 and Group Business Convention 2822, the Strike and Lokavat Law, the amendments, unfortunately, have once again been dissolved in our country. Dear President, members of lawmakers, it has become inevitable, especially in 2010, that the laws that regulate collective business relations should be addressed with a liberal attitude as part of the amendment to the Constitution. In this scope, a text that was largely agreed upon by social parties was tried to be discovered. The legislation has made arrangements to pave the way for union organisation, to bring the industrial relations system to modern standards, to meet the criticisms of our member ILO. The Common Business Law bill was intended to re-organise union rights and freedoms on the basis of liberal and democratic society. With that understanding, the Unions' Law, the collective contract, the strike and the Lokaoutt Act were combined and the text of the law was made brief, simple, understandable. An effort has been made to restore a structure in accordance with the norms of the ILO and the European Union, particularly the 2010 Constitutional Amendment. Precious lawmakers have been intended to make trade unions with the bill, union membership, union leadership, union guarantees, trade union activities, the functioning of trade unions, audits, the solution to free collective bargaining, and level of collective business contracts 87 and 98, in parallel with libertarian arrangements for working life. The terms of becoming a Turkish citizen, being an actual employee in the trade union's business body and being a Turkish reader were lifted to become a founding member of the collective business law. The number of businesses of 28 has also been reduced to 21, including world applications. The notary requirement for the end of membership and membership in a trade union that violates trade union freedom has been lifted. According to the bill, the union's membership and withdrawal will be carried out through the e-state door through an electronic application system provided by the Ministry. The union system has been simplified. Advertising a written statement is considered sufficient in the ministry's online environment instead of a newspaper ad. In line with the resolution lifted in the Constitution, workers working in the same line of work and at the same time in different businesses have been given the right to join more than one union. In this way, it is possible for employees to become members of more than one union, especially in the way they work. The suspension of the union manager's contract of employment is fundamentally accepted, strengthening the employee's legal rights in the form of discrimination or dissolution of the contract of employment for trade union reasons. Dear lawmakers don't mean anything unless union rights and freedoms become collective agreements on behalf of the working community. Compromising working life through collective contract of employment both restricts the lawmaker's arbitrary involvement in working relations and prevents the employer's ability to unilaterally determine the working conditions. The collective contract of employment arrangement allows workers who are weak in the face of the employer to be united to establish the principle of bilateral equality in the working-worker relationship through negotiating. Thus, the balance of power established keeps working peace and working order constant. For the first time, the definition of collective contract of collective employment in the implementation of the Common Business Relations Act is laid out in the law. During the union's authorization proceedings, a contract of employment is granted to trade unions without waiting for the results of years of lawsuits, in order to prevent the process of collective contract of employment due to other trade unions' job identification. The 10 per cent labour arm dam for the unions to get a collective contract of employment has been reduced to one per cent, while the operating dam for a collective contract of 50+1 per cent has been reduced to 40 per cent. In the same line of work, unions are facilitated to obtain authority at the same employer's workplaces. Problems with the application have been resolved in utilising a collective contract of employment. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are left to independent, sworn financial advisors as an external control mechanism outside the internal control bodies, the administrative and financial controls of the bill and trade union and confederations. The union can be held responsible for its corporate personality and the unions can be closed for the crimes committed by union leaders. In accordance with the principle of personality of crimes, the bill envisions that only those rulers will be relieved of their duties in crimes committed by individual executives. Workers who have reached the age of 15 in line with the working age of the Employment Law are allowed to become members of the union. It is organised that unions can be the founder of international labour and employers' organisations, send members and representatives, open foreign diplomatic missions. Unions and confederations are allowed to perform their activities freely, according to the restrictions set by the law and by the regulations. Unions receive donations from international organisations without permission is no longer the reason for their activities to be stopped. The files, notebooks, and records of the unions were removed from the law, and the matter was left to the regulations. Unions have been granted the freedom to create various organs and to determine the duties of these bodies through the regulations they will make. A framework contract is granted to comply with the constitutional amendment. The Union's membership fee has been lifted, and the amount of membership dues has been laid down by the general council, according to the procedure and basis specified by the organisation's charters. The problems of the age of the workplace have been resolved. Compliance with the constitutional amendment has been lifted from the text of the law, which is considered a general strike, political strike and solidarity strike, and occupation of jobs, slowing down work, reducing efficiency and other protests. Due to the intentional or flawed actions of workers and trade unions who were on strike during the strike during the development of the Constitutional Amendment, the union is responsible for the financial damage caused by the strike at the workplace. The decree has been lifted. The union has not been held responsible for the damage caused by workers who joined the strike, but not their own members, by adapting to the amendment with the bill, and it has been resolved against the general principles of private law. The second right to membership in the High Referee Council, which belongs to the most members of the confederacy, has been recognised by the confederacy of the entity's union, and has been asked to represent the entire confederation. Dear lawmakers, in line with the Constitutional amendment, we believe that the bill presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will contribute to the development of our democracy, by removing obstacles to the organisation of workers, and by improving the quality of working life, to ensuring the peace of working in our country, hoping that the Turkish industrial relations system will reach the standards envisioned in international norms. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, with the legislature of collective business relations we're discussing, one of the main problems of working life in our country will be eliminated, there will be no barriers to the organization of workers, there will be a democratic climate in working life, an important step in reaching the standards envisioned by international norms of the Turkish industrial relations system. I wish the law to our workers, to our employers, to our unions, to our country's best, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0033par0477	Thank you, Mr. Domaç. Speaking for groups on the bill is complete. Now, on behalf of the individuals, Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı, Congressman of the Constabulary. Here you go, Mr. Kalay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0034par0483	Mr. President, I have taken a personal pledge regarding the general draft of the Common Business Relations Act, which is currently in session in 197. I salute you all. In our industrial relations system, not everything is a rose, as has been shown by the government and by a number of supporters of the press. Turkey has a huge escape from industrial relations. Anti-industrial policies have opened the door to human resources management policies instead of industrial relations. This change of policy is a move that takes out unions. It seems that globalization is on its way to this policy goal of our country. And so business law becomes the federal business law, which means that it's going back 200 years, again, the beginning of the industrial revolution. During the AKP, the union organisation became weaker, and the unionisation rate dropped rapidly. According to TÜİK data, the number of paid and paid employees is 15,900,000; according to Social Security Agency data, the number of registered workers is at the level of 12 million. In contrast, the number of organised workers in the unions is 885,000, and the number of workers within the collective contract is around 580,000. The number of organised workers in the public is about 360,000 people, including municipalities, and the rate of organisation in the private sector is at 2%. According to OECD's latest unionisation data, Turkey is the last among OECD countries with a 5.9 per cent unionisation rate. Unionization rates are getting tense everywhere, and so are we. Compared to other countries, there is a high rate of unionisation in our country. Turkey is wrestling over the decline of unionisation. The unionisation rate in OECD has declined from 20.4 per cent to 18.4 per cent between 2001 and 2009. The OECD is down by 10 per cent, while Turkey is down by 40 per cent. As a result of the disorganisation of society and the creation of a fear empire, the failure to respond to the AKP government's wrong policies, unfair and segregating practices can also be referred to as economic stability. Unfortunately, in our country, the spirit of persecution and rebellion has been suppressed, the sense of right-seeking has been dulled. Turkey has established a so-called stable economy by preventing unionisation, given that its unionisation rate is 24 per cent in Greece, and 35 per cent in Italy. So the less union, the more non-organized society, the more stability. Dear lawmakers, unions are the cornerstones of democracy. The loss of blood of unionism is a weakness for our democracy. Of course, it stands as an important question as to why the AKP government does not oppose the unionisation of workers. It must be carefully thought about how to maintain and maintain business peace in unsubstantiated and non-unioned workplaces. If there is a demand for modern industrial relations, union workers and collective contract of employment must be supported. Work life should be discussed within the framework of policies that take into account the balanced protection of workers and employers' rights. Multiple consulting mechanisms in working life must be strengthened and effective participation in working life for the solution of problems in working life and for the establishment of work peace. In industrial relations, rights should be respected, business conflicts should be addressed with well-intentioned approaches, obstacles to organisation must be removed. Unional rights must be adjusted to modern norms. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to state immediately that the number of union workers has been reduced, the number of collective contracting businesses has been reduced, and the process has led to a demeanour of collective business law. According to Article 53 of our Constitution, workers and employers are entitled to a collective contract of employment, but since January, the AKP government has committed a constitutional offense for nine months by clearly violating the right to a collective contract of employment. The Ministry of Labour and Social Security is not responding to the union's request for authority of up to 1,600. For this reason, more than 350,000 workers were not contracted collectively. The workers have yet to receive a pay raise and have been victimized. The cause of the ministry is that the union member statistics are not published. So, who's going to publish it? It's the Ministry again. These statistics have not been published since July 2009. The union's membership is being arranged to be based on employee notifications to the Social Security Agency, but this arrangement is not being observed, it is being postponed three times. Who does all this, who doesn't even obey the law he makes? The AKP government again. After that, the Labour Minister of ten years of power can say that they can't authorize collective relations because there is no law. There's no excuse for the blocking of the contract process involving millions with their families, but there's an example of inadequacy, ineptitude, seriousness and irresponsibility. The government doesn't give a shit if there's no collective contract, the workers don't get their pay raises. No law, no collective contract, no pay raise, they call it. There's no strike. Workers who try to exercise their right to strike are also prevented by law. This is AKP's idea of advanced democracy. As for the AKP government's tax hikes, it does not hesitate, it does not shake, it does unfairly raise. The rise from electricity to natural gas, gas to mazota, gas to auto gas is raining down on our nation. The AKP's government shows a cruelness that even laughs away the increases and presents them as if nothing had happened. When the Prime Minister expressed electricity and rising rates of natural gas, he was able to say 10 to 15 percent, not so much. On the other hand, the minimum wage, the officer, the pensioner, the employee, is given a salary raise from 40 creeks, and the level of poverty in wages continues. With today's minimum wage, it is not possible for employees to meet their mandatory needs even at a minimum. The minimum wage is below the age of starvation. Dear lawmakers, the AKP government considers its own labor force, its own worker as a slave, and refuse to express it officially. See what Mr. Prime Minister's official website of the Turkish Investment Support and Promotion Agency says. I printed it out, my dear friends. Our friends who have access to the Internet may see the same expressions in the presidency of the Prime Ministerial Investment Support and Credit Agency. Look at the ten reasons for investing in Turkey -- I read exactly: more than 26 million young, educated and motivated professionals, increasing work efficiency per week, 52.9 working hours per week, and an average of 4.6 days per employee, the longest working period in Europe and the lowest rate in average leave of sickness per employee. How is that mental, how is that understanding? To say that a weekly work period is 52.9 hours, to expose and praise an illegal practice as a state. Mr. Secretary, are you aware of this? Did you provide this information as a ministry, or are you asleep? Isn't it 45 hours a week in our country? Overwork doesn't exceed 270 hours a year. The employee's approval is essential in hard work. Even if all of them are willing to work hard, the average working time is not more than 50 hours. So there's a crime going on, and that's exactly what the Prime Minister has agreed to. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0035par0495	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0036par0498	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I'd like to begin by wishing you the best of the new year of law. Today, I would like to express my great joy and satisfaction as the Minister of Labour to see the Bill of Public Affairs, which our working life has been waiting for for years, finally coming to light. I wish him well, and I hereby salute the High Council. During the last ten years of working life, we have signed very important regulations as the AK PARTY Power. I'd like to share some of this with you. During this period, the Employment Law became law, social security reform was carried out, general health insurance was passed, we took out the Occupational Health and Safety Act, we carried out the activation arrangement, we carried out the legal arrangement for collective contracting public officials -- harmonisation law -- the employment package was carried out, and the employment package was carried out under the 2023 vision of a 5 per cent unemployment strategy arrangement was carried out by the Ministry. Today, we bring to you an important provision of our union legislation. If conditions and Parliament calendars can make the working order possible, we've also brought to your attention the arrangement for sub-employment practices we call sub-employee practices, and we've targeted for the exploitation of labor from the practices there, and if there are shortcomings, to eliminate them, we're continuing our work in the Ministry kitchen. Dear lawmakers, our friends who have just delivered a speech have introduced to you in the historic course where unionism or union movements come from, what needs have come to this point, and the struggle to protect the right to labor, the sweat of the forehead. I don't want to bring to you a historical history in order not to take your time again on that subject, but in the Republican period, the work we can call the institutionalisation of either 1936 or 1947 or the unional movement, the regulations on trade union movements in the 61 Constitution, the laws on activities, the 274, 275, and the 1980 conflict, the laws of 2821, 2822. For the past twenty-nine years, 2821, 2822, a radical change in the constitution of the Law failed, unfortunately. Actually, it's a late arrangement. We respect the criticism of the critics here, but I also believe that we need to know that it's not a very easy area, so I'd like to say that it's not very easy to put the employers and labor unions together, and the employers' unions, and a joint agreement on this, as a dialogue has occupied all of our friends who have served as ministers, even though they've singled out the best parts of our friends' time into this issue. But during this period, for the first time in twenty-nine years that has not been radically changed, the union's legislation is being regulated by the intense participation of the parties. In terms of Turkey and our industrial relations, in terms of our economy, in terms of informality, whatever way you put it, it's a very important arrangement, and this arrangement is also a necessity in another expression, and it must be done immediately. I would also like to point out that the number of our 350,000 workers -- the number of workers who have failed to make a collective contract from January 2012 -- has reached 350,000 -- is in the High Assembly. Now, our friends who evaluated this law, there's a custody in the law, referring to our Prime Minister, who tried to reveal a road map that came in this way, this way, this way. I'd like to state here that it's extremely wrong. Because of this: You know the law that was referred to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as a result of the assessment of the Council of Ministers -- all our fellow MPs know how it was when we referred this arrangement to the Council of Ministers -- and you know the amendments made in the subcommittee, and you know the changes made in the main commission.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0037par0505	There are things you don't know, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0036par0506	Now that he's reached the General Assembly phase, the changes that have been made here will come to you with motions. So what I'm trying to say is that if there was a custody, if there was an imposition on this, there wouldn't be any changes on this journey, just how it came about, it would be necessary.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0037par0507	Why didn't the seven ministers sign it, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0036par0508	On the contrary, we're looking for the truth, the truth, what's useful to our industrial relations, and we're looking for it. It's not enough to be the ministry alone in this search, it's not enough that we want to be the Ministry... sir, under the EU Social Condition, under the ILO norms, that this arrangement is perfect, it can be expressed, but as a result, you come up against the workers and the employers, you're going to compromise them. In this framework, changes have been made in this process, or I think it would benefit from the fact that as the Ministry, as a political will, we don't have an approach to impose on these events that we don't necessarily have. Now, when you look at the case in terms of the 19th chapter of the EU -- which is the opening criteria -- it says here that business and trade unionism should be free. So when you look at the terms of our country, we've brought it up over and over again with labor unions and employers' unions, and even in the draft we proposed, business and trade unionism, I want to point out that it's not been looked after because it's been a business unionism in Turkey ever since. The Federation, sir, at some point, is confederation, which is the upper office of business, which is the upper body of business. It may be the Federation, but I would also like to point out here that when we meet with the parties, there is no demand for this, or else, as a government, I would like to say again and again that we are not in a position to impose on these and so on. Now, a statement has been made here regarding the number of union workers. The number of union workers is not 600,000, but we now have 937,810 union workers, and the total number of employees is 8.44%. Now, what does this law bring? A lot can be said, a lot can be said. As a matter of fact, it's expressed here, but the most important thing is, look, today it's based on the nature of the statement, and according to our data at the Ministry of Labor, the total number of workers is 5,398. The number of union workers is 3 million 232,000, the unionisation rate is 59.88 per cent, 60 per cent currently unionizing, this is the current picture. Maybe we've been saying that for five years. So we say: let's go from this virtual table to this virtual world to the real picture. Well, what is the truth of it? The total number of workers -- the number of workers who could be unionists -- is now 11 million, 110, 104, the number of workers who could be unionists. The number of union workers is 937,810, and the unionisation rate is 8.44 per cent. What does this law bring? This law frees us from these virtual numbers, connects us with the real numbers. If nothing happened, I'm concerned that saving our industrial relations, our working lives from this virtual world, will be enough -- even more -- because as ministers and ministers of the Republic of Turkey, it hasn't been comfortable with any minister to come up here and say these virtual figures, but for years, for decades, these numbers have been expressed here, unexplored union workers are expressed here, the numbers in non-work life are expressed here. Now, we've been trying very hard to get this arrangement done since the first day we got here, but I've just expressed the difficulty, and there are sides to it. The Ministry of Labor is secular... no ministry is, surely, but there's a different side to the Ministry of Labor. He has partners, he has employees, he has partners with his employer. They know that we've spent hours and hours trying to sort things out in the context of a dialogue, where our dear friends, who are in everything with their opposition and their power, know that we're here. Now, the other thing, 850,000 workers, Mr. Suleiman, is that there are 10 percent dams here right now. It's got a 10 percent threshold on one side, and on the other, it says you're going to be based on social security data, which is the current arrangement of our law. When you're based on Social Security Foundation data, you have 11 million employees, and when you hit 10 percent of the dam, our current union workers are not enough, so many of them fall below this 10% threshold and are unauthorized. So we're bringing in an arrangement to eliminate this contradiction. Now, I don't think an example would be very accurate: there are 850,000 workers across Turkey in the line of work, 10 percent of which makes 85,000. Right. What, then, is one percent of this arrangement doing now? One percent makes 8.500. Eight, I guess. 500 is much smaller than 85 grand. I mean, this arrangement is wrong. It means that the union's union-numbering events -- the effort of the union, the effort of the union, the increase of the number of members -- are something else -- those unions have to question themselves if they've failed in that regard -- but...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0038par0515	Not the law, not the law...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0036par0516	... 85,000 workforce dam 8. If you reduce it to 500, it's a different thing, it's a healthy arrangement, it's a proper arrangement. For him, I believe it's not right to ignore such a big difference, 10 times the difference. Yeah, there's nothing wrong with the dam. So you're saying there's an increase from the bottom up. Isn't that right? The main dam is 3% and if the motions are accepted, we'll consult with you, we'll see you tomorrow, you say, dialogue with social parties, the result of that dialogue came here. In Parliament, I visited all the groups, went to groups, visited them, gave them information, shared them, gave them what the law brought in, even some of the motions, and said that if you had similar proposals, we would consider them. Earlier tomorrow morning, with representatives of political parties in parliament, if they really have suggestions, if we get that information before the union's meeting with the technical committee -- the workers and employers' unions -- I mean, this law is the nation's law, this law is the Minister of Labor, this law is the Law of Justice and Development, this law is the Law of the People's Party, the Law of the Republic, the Law of the BDP, which is not the Law of the 75 million, and we are committed to being the most perfect, and we are sincere about it. Well, when we do that, we have only one challenge, and we need to get the worker and the employer to meet somewhere. What's the challenge here? Between 0-5. Some of our unions say: "Let the dam be zero." Our employer says: "Let the dam be 5.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0038par0518	No union, they call it. Now, if you've taken responsibility here, that's all you can say in terms of responsibility, but if you don't have responsibility, then of course you can say, "Let the solution go." The solution goes without tearing down one side, without destroying the other. That's what we're doing today. Without destroying, without disrupting our industrial relations, without disrupting, in the framework of a major compromise, we have an arrangement that will remove the obstacles to the organization of our worker, encourage it to be organised, while the concerns of our employer must be brought to an arrangement that will not put him in a difficult position in international competition, that will not put him in a difficult position, that all of this work, the purpose of this effort, is to meet at one place, which I am greatly happy that we are doing so. Membership is getting simpler, resignation is getting simpler, notarized, the union is getting easier, so there are a lot of important changes, and we can discuss them in terms of discussion or in sections, and I don't want to take your time for that. There's been contact with labor fees here. Again, we sat down with our fellow workers, and agreed that the minimum wage should be doubled in inflation. Our employer signed it, and our employee signed it, and together, when we were expected to be 3+3, we made a minimum wage increase at 12+12.37 as a government. No employee, no worker, has ever been crushed by inflation in a collective contract. These figures are clear, known to all the public, as well as to all the sections. The one that was just expressed here...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0039par0523	You gave him a 28 percent raise? Did you give him a rise in natural gas?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0040par0524	Of course, community contracts are coming up...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0039par0525	So, you're giving him a raise.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0040par0526	...all the things you're talking about will be discussed; there's a table, a free table. We're having these discussions for hours, days, when we're meeting with our labor unions, when we're talking to public employees, and I want to say here as a government that we've never signed an arrangement that would ultimately be against your efforts. Our dear congressman friend just mentioned a site, and I don't know if I have any new information. I'm telling you, we're gonna take that information from them and we're gonna be his followers. Again, it's the law of collective affairs. Which has just been agreed upon by the groups, which, as four groups, has been a good understanding of changing the title of this bill. I thank all the groups. I would like to thank all of my friends who would contribute first, and I would like to thank you, and I would like to thank you, the High Council, while I would like to make sure that this important arrangement, which is reduced from 153 to 83 articles, which have been brought together by two laws of 80-somethings, should be a blessing in our work life.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0041par0531	Thank you, Mr. Faruk Çelik, our Minister of Labor and Social Security. Now, the final word on the entire bill is Mr. Izzet Cetin, Ankara MP. Here you go, sir. Your time is 10 minutes, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0042par0535	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Dear friends, after 10 years and 3 months, talks have finally begun on a bill of law that can come on the agenda of Congress. So in terms of our country, our lawmakers, the AKP, the working life, the worker, the worker's perspective, the House table also reveals that workers have become, unfortunately, invisible in this country. They're not so wrong, the workers have just reported how their rights were hijacked while they were sleeping. In fact, I'm correcting the number of employees in our country today has been reduced to 570,000 if there are 11.5 million insured workers -- I don't include non-registers -- while there are employees working in our country. If the number of union workers is down by 938 thousand, who has done the practices that have caused this setback? What pressure has caused this setback? Who runs the country? You must ask the questions. My dear friends, it's a very important law. I thank the Minister for his compromise attempts. Of course, I know you've been working hard to get this law out, but I wish he wouldn't hesitate to reveal some facts. For example, when the law came, the issue of the dam came to be 15 in a thousand. The international norm received 15 in a thousand when the acceptable norm was 5 in a thousand, but seven ministers were forced to withdraw because they didn't sign the bill. The dam was upgraded to 3 per cent and followed by Parliament's agenda, last year it was discussed in the commissions, dear friends, and today it came to Parliament's agenda. In fact, since July 2002, this is the fourth, perhaps more, a law that has come and gone on the agenda of Parliament and has not been discussed. Dear friends, what's important here is union rights, contract rights and the protection of their right to strike and their freedoms. If union rights and freedoms are all rights that are known as collective rights, union rights and freedom, strike rights and freedom, these three rights of collective agreements are both complementing each other, functionalizing each other, and without one, there is no meaning to the other. That's why they need to be strengthened if there's a law being made. Now, we have a bill ahead of us. Of course, the rights to be protected are individual rights before we get into collective rights. You can't talk about union freedom, union freedom, union rights, the right to join the union, the right to leave the union, the right to leave the union, if these rights aren't protected, if they're not guaranteed enough, you can't talk about the freedom environment there, you can't brag about the union workers down to 500,000, you can't cry. Dear friends, we said these rights should be protected. Who should these rights be protected from? These rights must be protected against the government, protected against employers of the cruel understanding of the Middle Ages, protected against those who can't digest democracy. For him, these rights are impossible to strengthen union rights and freedoms without guaranteeing them; there is no way to strengthen democracy in the country. Mr. Secretary just told me. A total of 153, 154 articles. That doesn't include supplements and temporary substances. There is only one law in place of Unions Act 2821 and Group Business Convention 2822, Strike, Lockavt Law. Its name -- it has just been restored to its originality -- when it is adopted as the Constitution and the Common Business Contract Act. He came to the House as a Community Business Act. The minister told me, and so did my friends. There's really a blockage in the collective contract arrangement, there's a setback in the union area. The large blockage in the collective contract arrangement was caused by dams. The 10 per cent dam has not been granted authority, nor has it kept normal records with SEC records, and since 2009, the workforce statistics have not been published, and 350,000 workers are waiting for collective agreements. Add 250,000 public workers to this from New Year's Eve, and it'll be a good chaos. Now, for what I've said, it seems we've created chaos with these laws and left workers, unions without collective agreements. All we're talking about is a collective contract of employment. Now, when you look inside this law, there's a framework contract, there's a group contract of employment, there's a collective business contract. My dear friends, it is fictional to organize a framework contract from a government that cannot overcome a collective contract of employment, to resolve the chaos the group collective contract of employment will create, or to wait for it to resolve the issues of power over the collective contract of employment. For one thing, a collective contract area is not an intervention; a framework agreement is an intervention, a collective contract of employment is an intervention. Let me go further, so the chaos here will take the chaos to the point where it will destroy the collective agreement order. Another important point... Mr. Secretary, I'm going to read a sentence. See, Article 3 of the Law, I'm just reading the first sentence: ▪ Installations, the establishment of this law, is established without prior permission, according to its rules and principles. It's a foundation. What's the foundation, fellas? There's a logic within the law that's afraid to say union, to say confederation. It would be fanciful to expect him to strengthen, develop democracy from an understanding that does not digest the concept of the Syndicate. Please, do not be afraid to say "confederation" or "confederation" in order to make this law more clear. My dear friends, indeed, there are many words to be said, there are many things to be criticised by the law. There's no way it fits into a ten-minute conversation. There's no good in it? Of course there is, but if we're making a law, then there should be some difficulties, shortcomings, past experiences, and an adjustment to the conditions of the day of our time. These regulations, this collective contract of employment, the strike, the Lokavat Law and the Unions Act... there is no way you can make peace in the life of this law. Let me be clear, there's an imposition of employers here, the surrender of the AKP against him. And, of course, I have a word with the labor unions: they go back to sleep, I tell those who try to sleep. And I promise the workers that they'll keep voting, and soon their severance pay and their other rights will go away and their children will curse them. My dear friends, it's a really hard place to work. I know that. My friend who just spoke on behalf of the AKP Group -- did he buy from Wikipedia, asked Google -- read the history of the union movement. I mean, I'd expect it to be ten years ago, and the reason it's gone by is because, you know, you think we're using this time badly to make it this way, and it'd be so much better if we said we brought these things, it'd be so much better, it'd be good. Dear friends, of course, it's dreamy to expect so much. It hasn't been a week, but three days ago, Mr. Prime Minister gave a two-and-a-half-hour speech at the general boards, at the convention. I tried to hear it in their convention, so I got the speech text in case I missed it. They've prepared 63 things, I've removed them. I searched for the word "worker" and "worker" and "worker" or "worker" or "worker" or "worker" or "worker" or "worker" or "worker" or "worker" or "worker" or "worker." The word "employee" is mentioned somewhere, and it's populism, my brother in Bitlis. The officer is in two places, and in a similar way, he does not tell the officer how to approach him. No villagers, no pensioners, no workers, no unions. This is not on AKP's agenda.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0043par0550	Barzani, Barzani...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0042par0551	It's not in your tongue, in your vocabulary, in your notebook. What? They have sleeping policies. What? There are raises. What? There's a 28-30 percent raise in one night when you raise the officer, the worker, the pensioner, 3-5 percent increase. My respects to all of you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0044par0555	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. Thus, the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. Now, under the Civil Code, we move on to the question-and-answer part for 20 minutes. I'll make a promise to our friends who have entered the system in order. Mr. Tanal... no. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0045par0561	Thank you, Mr. President. There have also been serious pressure on and on union organisation during the AKP ruling period. The employees are resigned from their unions in various ways, becoming members of trade unions known for their proximity to the government. The union, which ranked third in the number of members in 2002, is in harmony with the government and is in line with the same glasses. There's a similar situation in labor unions as there is in officer unions. For some reason, the number of members of a confederate union close to the government is increasing. Obviously, it wasn't voluntary. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary how the number of members has changed since 2003. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0046par0564	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0047par0566	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you how Mr. Ministry assesses any initiatives regarding members of the KESK, who have been arrested for trade unionism recently. Because in the 1990s -- founded in the second half of the 90s -- KESK executives, many union managers were taken into custody only because of trade union activities, were unjustly detained and are still being held in prisons. What do you think of these? Also, there are workers working in the county's private administration with the staff your Ministry has recently assigned, temporary workers. They're running out of time in the next few days. Winter's coming, do you think you can give them, uh, these temps, uh, a chance to get back on staff, give them a time-out? On this winter's day, you'll make the workers happy if you give staff to workers who work in various municipalities in private administration. I wanted to give you this wish.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0046par0568	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Cetin...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0048par0570	Mr. Secretary, I didn't mention it in my speech just now, but I'd like to ask you now because it's not enough time. In the past few months, you've added one night to an arrangement about taxi drivers, taking away strike rights from them in the air and taking away their strike rights as a strike ban, including 305 employees -- leaving one of them at the airport in Canada -- and so far, it's a pity that there has been no positive termination. He's been brought to justice, so to speak, this one. So if your ministry or ministers can't afford a bureaucrat, you're just going to stand by and watch. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0049par0573	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0050par0575	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, we have no confidence in the people the AKP has established during the government, most of them.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0051par0577	We don't trust you either.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0050par0578	Now, a brother of the man who lived in the government had been arrested before, and he was released. For what crime he was arrested -- corruption or money transfer -- was not understood. Today, Ergün Poyraz, who wrote a book about Erdoğan and Abdullah Gul, has still not been decided for seven years. Now, there are rumors about his daughter in a few places. Sir, he had his daughter transferred to the Hacettepe English department at the medical school in Azabadem. Now, there's no law on their own, no law, they're doing everything they can. What kind of political power staff is that? For months he kept people busy. Zero results. They also destroyed the Alekis from their government staff. In all new public services, they've never hired an Alevi citizen. One Alevi citizen was in the High Judges' Council, and they changed the Constitution, and threw him out. What question can I ask such a government?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0052par0582	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0053par0584	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you just announced that only 8.44% of over 11 million workers are unionists. To what do you attribute the lowness of this place? Why have you felt the need to wait ten years for this to happen? Second, will you be able to remove the obstacles to the union of subcontractors in our country, where subcontractors have become widespread every day? Another is that you haven't been able to come up with a solution to the problems of the 4/C. Do you have a schedule like this this this semester? Finally, workers employed as seasonal workers under Law 5620 were terminated in early September. Schools have started, these people are miserable. What do you think of the temporary workers that have been employed for five months and twenty-nine days? Is there anything in this law that can help them? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0054par0590	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Belen...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0055par0592	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you a question about my constituency: there are 8,000 active businesses in the service of Çikirdağ Province, Social Security Agency. In these 8,000 workplaces, there are 98,4/A people, 6,500 4/B people, 2,200 4/C have employees, and they are trying to serve with 22 staff at the Social Security Institution in the district. There are 30,000, 4/A., 8,300, 4/B., 3,600, 4/C, at the City Hall in the city centre; they serve with 112 staff. Do you intend to give personnel to Çorý district? I've spoken to you about this before, but you promised and failed, Mr. Secretary. Friends are in trouble. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0056par0595	Thank you, Mr. Belen. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0057par0597	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, would the balance between this bill and the employer be in favor of the worker or would it be in favour of the employer? I'd like to take your thoughts. Second: There is an iron-steel company in Osmaniye, my constituency. Since he was a member of the Steel Business Union, this company laid off many workers in Ramadan on the eve of Ramadan Day. These workers who worked in a high-risk industry, such as ironplay, were in need of help to open the Ramadan fast and could not enjoy the holiday. Will such arbitrary practices be over with this bill? On the other hand, I had a question about subcontractors and the 4/C people, but our Kütahya MP, Mr. Illum, asked this question, I won't ask that question. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0058par0602	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0059par0604	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the 23rd article of the bill we discussed has been made under the name of the guarantee of the executives of the union. The jobs of the union managers are being suspended. However, the administration of the Union is mandatory if they can't be elected or if they have to apply to the employer within a month. It's mandatory. It's tried, but no sanctions have been imposed, not even as sanctioned as it is in business representatives. In this case, what about the assurances of union leaders? If such a legal arrangement is carried out, believe me, the unions will not find the person to be the manager, because as soon as the union management is finished, these people's work statements will be terminated by employers. Do you plan to make an adjustment? Also, since there is a change in the name of the law, do you think -- there are topics here that are unbecoming -- do you think that the titles such as the employment agency should be changed to the name?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0060par0607	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0061par0609	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I have a local question. At the beginning of this month, 19-20 professors working at the university hospital have to come to Ankara and reside for a week, especially for the return of the medical school's fees that have been imposed on the institution for a month. For God's sake -- the people there are unable to benefit from certain chapters for a week -- won't you have a study at the point where they'll be paid and you'll take their bills to Adana? Believe me, these people spend a week each month in a hotel in Ankara. The public also complains, and so do our fellow professors and doctors there. I believe you'll be sensitive to the subject, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0062par0613	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Acar, again... we have one minute.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0063par0615	Thank you, Mr. President. The Anadolu Agency, as you know, is actually the agency of Anatolia, all of Turkey. But lately, as with other public institutions, the AKP has chosen to be its agent. Turkey's Journalists' Union of Turkey, which is the only trade union in the press business, has been terminated from Anadolu Agency. Within almost 15 days, Anadolu Agency employees resigned from the Turkish Union of Journalists and became members of Media-Islam, which was established during the same days. This union's in the Hak-Business. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary if it's normal for employees to be members of a new union with collective contract authority within 15 days, whether or not they'll even be in charge of a new union. Are such events common in working life? Here, the employer's pressure is clear. Will you stop such practices that violate the freedom of union organization? Are you going to protect the rights of the agency's employees, Mr. Secretary? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0064par0619	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Madam Secretary, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0065par0621	Thank you very much, Mr. President. No officers, workers, pensioners, peasants were listed on the agenda of the PARTI. Officers, workers, peasants, pensioners, if you don't have those numbers, I can tell you that you're observing in one wrong world, all of which, thank God, are behind us, and you see that we're in a very sensitive administration about distribution of rights and resources, and our nation is aware of that, and they're doing it in elections. There's pressure on the organization, the government-compliant union. It would be very good of you to ask the unionists. As a government, we work very well with all unions, workers, employers' unions; we are not one step closer to one person, we are not one step away from another; I make it clear that it is important for us to tell this information, but I think it's much more appropriate for you to listen to it from the unionists. Members of some unions have been arrested, of course, as a matter of trial. There's nothing specific coming to us, but the presidents of the confederacy are looking for us. We're either interviewing or interviewing our Minister of Interior on this matter, and I'd like to make that clear.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0066par0625	Did you tell the judge what to do?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0065par0626	We've raised the eight-month period to nine months on behalf of community workers, and we've put a little bit more weight on the cities that are mainly suffering from socioeconomic development. Right now, the system is also indexed with national education, so they start with the opening of schools, and the school ends with the holidays. The firing of 305 workers. It's a private company, Turkish Airlines, and we need to address the arrangement on this issue in this framework, we as the Ministry, the board of directors...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0067par0628	Mr. Minister, you're proud of Turkish Airlines, but you talk about Turkish Airlines every day.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0065par0629	Would you excuse me?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0067par0630	If it's a private company, why are you proud of the plowman?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0065par0631	I've talked to the president -- I've invited him a couple of times -- we've talked to the workers, we're on the case, so as the Ministry, we're doing what we're authorized to do. He asked a personal question, Mr. Young. Now, a journalist... look, I'm telling you straight up, politics is a business of confrontation, so if you can't face someone, if you can't face them, then you're going to quit politics. I'm here to tell you your name, too, that Mr. Deserteast has framed you. Take a look, I say.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0068par0633	If you had explained it, it would have been slander. There's Yalçın Bayer (or Yalçın Bayer) today.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0065par0634	Excuse me. I sent the article, we'll settle it in court.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0068par0635	There's only Bayer.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0065par0636	Would you excuse me? What upsets me is not his letter to the Minister of Labor, but an idealist medical student -- all of you have children -- who scribbled down his name. If there's anything that can justify all the information and documents, one Desertabaşahan, I'll leave the Ministry and the parliament.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0068par0637	We want it explained, too, dear. I'm being this clear, but I've never... [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] No transplants? No transplants? Look, you can ask questions, but if you'll excuse me. Yeah. The purpose of the atmosphere he created by exposing a name when he had no evidence to justify it is obvious, what he wants to do, he may have a grudge against our party, but he has no right in society to make it difficult for a twenty-year-old student to slander like that. My daughter is studying foreign languages at the University of Aşabadem. He has moved to third grade. He applied to the University of Bursa Uludağ and Hacettepe Medical School for the horizontal transition. You can look at the screen, the first transition to Uludağ University has dropped to both screens because it has access to the Hacettepe, and the overall academic average in both cases is 3.56. It's been at the lowest level for 3,50, and there's nothing wrong with it. He made the application by hand; he claims that he did not do it by hand, but by mail; he did it by hand. By slandering these slanders, I say in particular, as a father, I say it's extremely dramatic in the psychology of the child at home, but it's his profession, it's his profession, it's his work, it's his work, it's his work, we'll answer for it in court. But you're congressmen, and I'm saying that if there's any mistake in this transition, if there's a situation going on using any of the Ministry's privileges, using political privileges, you have to question them, you have to answer for it, and we're ready to answer for it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] That's what we're asking. Mr. Young, this is how I've done politics, and I'm thinking of ending it this way, or someone... Can you explain your brother, your brother? Sir? How did your brother get out in two days? You can also look into my brother. You've had no effect on the court? My brother has been arrested in the joint. How's that?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0069par0655	In the kitchen. Look, look, look. Read the file. Do not speak from afar without reading. It's about Bursaspor...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0068par0657	Okay? He's been in there for seven years, and he's still in there, and when he comes to you, he comes out the very next day. What kind of a thing is that? What kind of law is that?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0069par0658	You're a lawyer, I'm telling you to find out.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0068par0659	I'm a lawyer, let's investigate, but they're missing everything, information.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0069par0660	I mean, slander shouldn't be that easy.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0068par0661	What am I slandering, it's in the papers. We're not slandering, it's in the papers. It's in the papers today. It's in the writing of Yalçın Bayer.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0069par0662	Now, about the other stuff. It's about flammableness... the citizens of the Flame are our citizens.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0068par0664	What did you do? You kept people busy for a year. What did you do? What did you make of it?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0069par0665	Excuse me. Look what I did. Get your answer, wait.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0068par0666	Why don't you consider the Cemevs a place of worship? It's because you didn't get a fatwa from religion, isn't it? And if you're going to get a fatwa from religion, what's your job there?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0069par0667	The citizens of Alevi are our citizens.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0068par0668	Yeah, that's great, when it comes to it, but when it comes to it, it is.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0069par0669	75 million first-class citizens. We've conducted extremely important workshops that haven't been done in the history of the republic with our own citizens. All the cuts...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0068par0670	Either you've been publicly liquidated, you can't get public service.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0069par0671	Excuse me. First of all, the dialogue has been established. The government's memory has developed an approach that eliminates the state's prejudices. The Republic of Turkey...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0068par0673	Aren't you looking at Erdoğan's words? I was condemned by the Alevis. Isn't that what they say?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0069par0674	Excuse me. I was involved, I invited you, you didn't come, you ran. I invited you. I invited you to play, and you didn't come. You should have come.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0068par0675	I didn't come because you invited so many men, you invited the men who burned the Flames.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0069par0676	You're for discrimination, we're for the union. You're looking for discrimination.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0068par0678	No, I know, it's no big deal! I don't go where there's trouble.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0070par0679	Please don't talk to me. Yes, Mr. Secretary, go ahead.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0071par0681	Secondly, Madımak Hotel has been discussed. Go, and I advise you to visit Madimak. Go see what it's become.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0072par0682	Aren't you the one who protects those who burn Madimamak? After that, aren't you the one who affords the prisons?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0071par0683	Third, religious culture goes to the ethics books...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0073par0684	Mr. Young, can I have your attention, please?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0071par0685	What kind of disrespect is that? You asked the question, listen.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0073par0686	Mr. Young, you asked a question, please listen, please, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0071par0687	I understand the answers are bothering you. You'll be right, you're thirsty, you're talking because you're wrong.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0074par0689	You're speaking unrealisticly here, unreal. From now on, we won't even talk about these unreal talkers.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0071par0690	You're not right! Look, you ask questions, I give you answers. I'm saying that the books on religion culture and morality were added to the work of Alevi educators -- hundreds of pages of religious culture and moral knowledge books -- to the Nusatirical need, to the Flamery -- and they were made by the Alehi educators.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0074par0691	Yeah, well, that's nothing to brag about. Where is its essence, its essence, its essence?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0071par0692	We've done our work on the Cemevs.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0074par0693	What did you do?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0071par0694	We've shared with the public in two aspects, in two aspects of the problem with Cemevs: one is a legal problem, one is...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0074par0695	Well, the legal issue is a material law.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0071par0696	Then bring the law.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0074par0697	We brought him in, he's in the House. Come on... it's on the agenda.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0071par0698	Bring it in. Look...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0074par0699	I made a motion here, and you refused the motion.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0071par0700	Look, it's not that simple.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0074par0701	What's not simple? Because the President of Religious Affairs won't give a fatwa...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0071par0702	You can't look so superficial. We have a will to give them a status, but it's not the AK PARTY, it's not the Republican People's Party, it's the social problems, together, from ideology, from partisanism. So, with your approach, it's not solved, it's not solved by your view.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0074par0704	They're purely imaginary reasons.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0075par0705	You have driven all the judges of the judgment, you have driven all the judges of Alevi. You're talking about neutrality.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0071par0706	The change in the bill is in the employee's favor, let me put it this way. The change in the bill is in the favor of the employees, and it's mainly in the favor of the workers, and I want to stress that. For the second time, our friend has delivered the request, and I will be his follower. Lack of staff also means lack of services. Hopefully, we'll figure it out together. Mr. President, thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0076par0709	Thank you. Congressmans, the negotiations on the entire bill are complete.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0077par0711	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit01spe0076par0712	I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We'll move on to the bill's provisions. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0076par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's Third Union of the Grand National Assembly. We'll resume the talks of Bill 197 from where we left off. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Now, let's begin our chapter one interviews. The first part covers 1 to 30. On behalf of the groups on the first chapter, the first speaker is Mr. Ali Öz, Mersin MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Oz, here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0078par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action on the first part of the 1st legislature of the Common Business Relations Act, ranking 197. With the start of the new year of legislature, I respectfully salute the High Assembly as I wish this year of legislation to be a blessing to our Parliament and to the great Turkish nation. The Common Business Relations Act, which directly concerns working life in our country, has been brought up on the grounds of establishing modern working life in line with the norms of the European Union. However, this bill, which aims to establish a free and democratic organisation and the right to collective bargaining, is far from the goal. This law is far behind the ILO contracts, free from innovation in working life, even restricting certain rights and freedoms. According to the latest statistics published by the Ministry of Labor, July 2009, the number of union members in Turkey is 3 million 232,679. However, according to the ministry's latest statistics, there are only 767,582 employees who benefit from a collective contract of employment in 2008 and 2009 because collective agreements were held every two years, which is less than a quarter of the union members in the records. According to ministry records, 59.88 per cent of workers who work in Turkey are unionists. The percentage of people who benefit from the collective agreement is only 14.2 per cent of those who are covered by insurance workers. The rate of use of collective employment agreements is estimated at 5 per cent of workers who work and work on wages and wages, which TÜİK (TİK) announced in January 2012. So the game, which has been played for about 30 years, is big enough to show that the union organisation rate around 5 per cent is around 60 per cent. The Justice and Development Party's Government has also seized the Unions' Law on the charge of correcting a structure that has been wronged, as has been so many times before. The union laws, which were the product of the coup on September 12th, have an antidemocratic content in every way. Therefore, the intention of changing union laws on the grounds that it is antidemocratic is not an attempt to oppose, but it is admirable. The AKP, who evaluated the situation very well, brought to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey the law, which it called collective business relations, without much reaction. Many regulations in the Common Business Charter have come to the attention of drafts or drafts under various names since 2008. This arrangement, which deprives many unions of being on the side of collective agreements, violates the right to collective agreements and collective bargaining with union rights and freedoms. The constraint of the right to union organisation, the change of the concept of union organisation, the reduction of organisation in one line of work and the issue of external control of trade unions, oathd financial advisors, the threshold of labour and the expansion of the strike bans are key issues. With the new law, the creation of unions will be prevented and the right to union freedom will be restricted. Trade unions who were not members of the ESK have been severely unfair. It is also not clear on the number of dams, but the mandate of the Council of Ministers is also troubling the Ministry. This means that political authority keeps Damocles' sword on top of the unions. For thirty years, the unions will not be free with these practices and new changes, I'm afraid. While the unions have been intended to grow stronger, it is unfair to be authorized by the Council of Ministers through these practices. Dear lawmakers, in this law, the concept of contract and contract is not clear. The first question is whether the framework contract is a collective contract of employment. The second question is whether or not the framework will strike when the contract is made. It includes trade union and confederation, and confederations are called the upper body. I mean, confederation is both the foundation and the upper body. Due to the lack of cognitiveness, many articles of the bill were inevitably used in terms of syndika, confederation and union branches. The term "employee" was insufficient. As director, it has been wrong to identify the chairman and members of the agency and the branch's board of directors, to exclude the chairman of the audit and disciplinary board and its members from the management scope. With this law, there is a demand to be brought back even further than a public meeting. Even if you're unauthorized in ten service units, you can be the confederate with the most members mathematically. In this case, the bill does not give a say at the collective agreement table. However, a confederation that does not have a single union in the service branch can also be the confederate with the most members and can decide on the services arm, pensioners, trade union members and all non-union officials. However, the right to appeal to decisions made in collective agreements will not even be subject to the People's Officers Referee Board. Nowhere in the world is there a union understanding that has no say in the decision-making process, although he is in charge, but it is not possible to be called a collective contract. The ILO Freedom of Organization Committee is focusing on the need for the unions to form a collective contract on behalf of their own members. In addition, the 98-numbered Convention of the ILO (ILO) stated that when no union represents the only majority of workers, the government must establish a collective contract system on behalf of members of all trade unions. At the moment, no officer's confederation in Turkey represents the only majority of public officials. Thus, a system that authorized confederations must establish a common bargaining system, but by law, confederations outside a confederation have not even been authorized to contest decisions taken. However, obstacles to freedom of organisation have not been removed, the structure of the Public Officers Referee Board has been unilaterally determined. For the chairman of the board, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court and the heads of the Court have been considered to appoint a person who the government will be happy to appoint. There's no way a board like this could get a healthy decision. The essence and the spirit of this bill is the product of a prohibitive and supportive understanding. In this case, the bill violates hundreds of court decisions, the European Court of Human Rights results, the European Social Condition. Such a bill is clearly not in line with any of ILO's contracts or any fundamental principles of unionism. Dear lawmakers, the number of businesses in the number of businesses clearly shows that the number of jobs, as alleged, does not conform to the norms of the ILO and the European Union. The fact that the founders work in the business of which the unions are established has not been justified by the condition that they are able to read in Turkish. The same conditions are sought for those who will serve in the bodies of the union. Clearly, those who form a trade union in the line of work that he does not work with will not have enough knowledge or experience of the properties and problems of that line of work. It is also another question as to how a trade unionist who is not a Turkish reader will communicate. This will be an attack on the language union of our country. Many issues are left to trade unions' regulations and general board decisions; the determination of union management, control and discipline boards is far from democratic. It is not clear why union leaders are also banned from becoming MPs and mayors. In most countries of the European Union, two tasks can be carried out together. Such implementation of membership through the e-state door and withdrawal of membership and the possibility of its problems are unprecedented preparation and the fact that the operation has been left to a charter, signaling that everything is wanted under ministry control. The procedure and the basis for the collection of membership fees will be a means for the ministry to maintain its authority and political pressure on trade unions. The management of the labour establishment, the arrangements for the guarantee of business union representative and union freedom, have been taken behind the draft, unfortunately the front of our country has not, once again, opened the way for the use of union rights and freedoms. The activities of trade unions and confederations have been left to regulations and general board decisions as a rule, and the regulation of these activities in the seventh joke of this clause has been restricted, and the obligation to hand over trade unions' training, health, culture, and sports facilities to relevant ministries. Controls outside of union self-control are against ILO norms. It is a clear violation of the mandatory audit of a CPA once every two years. This bill coincides with one principle, which is the unionism and advocacy of the Justice and Development Party. The three-way dam system limiting the use of union rights and freedoms, especially the one that protects the labour arm dam, does not provide union guarantees, maintains strike bans in a large way beyond the practice of the European Union, does not recognise collective contract rights as a right for all workers to use, but does not provide a solution to jurisdictional conflicts. With the belief that there will be no business peace with this bill, there will be an arrangement in favour of employers and political authority, a new prohibitive understanding will prevail. I say we don't find it right, with the idea that it would be liberal and unintelligible on the unions, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0079par0037	Thank you, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0080par0038	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to discuss a matter with both the General Assembly and the Minister.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0079par0039	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0080par0042	Five of our citizens died after a bomb from Syria exploded in a house in Akçakale district of Şanlıurfa Province. The fire in Syria, unfortunately, is jumping to Turkey. Our citizens who have just called from Akchakale have expressed the presence of armed, kalashnikovs in Akchakale, and are concerned about this, saying that the government must be warned, to warn the government in great anxiety, to take care of the state, to take care of Akchakale, and to use the power of the state for those who disturb the peace of Akchakale. I requested that we share this over a phone call that I received, and Mr. Secretary of Şanliurfa MP, in this regard, I have made it a duty to warn the government about these games on Akçakale. I ask God's mercy for our dead citizens, sir.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0081par0045	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Slim...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0082par0048	As the Republican People's Party Group, we pray for God's mercy to our dead citizens. Right now, we're sending five of our congressmen -- they're on their way -- to get more information. Mr. Secretary, of course, since he's the district legislator, I think he'll take good care of it.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0081par0049	Thank you. Dear Canikli...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0083par0052	And as the AK PARTY Group, Mr. President, we ask for the mercy of God to our citizens who died in the house where this cannon bullet was hit. We offer our condolences to their relatives. So we made some calls. Of course, the government is doing all the necessary work there, and we don't have enough information right now. We wish there would be much more information in the coming hours, but our government will do whatever it takes to make sure no one doubts it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0084par0055	Thank you, Mr. Canicli. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0085par0058	The unofficial information we received from Akçakale is that it's a little more serious than it's reflected in the media. It is our wish that, in particular, the dead and wounded figures mentioned should not be real. We, the BDP group, wish God's mercy to those who lost their lives, and to all the wounded, for immediate healing. There's actually been a serious emergency there for a month, it's been reflected in the media, and we're recommending that the council run a process that will be involved there as soon as possible.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0084par0060	Thank you. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0086par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. We follow the events of Syria as nations and as Parliaments, all together, as governments. As you know, the last 20 to 25 days have been very close to Telabyad, Akchakale, where there have been serious conflicts. In the process, we felt some of the reflections of these conflicts in Akçakale. Today at around 5 p.m., we're getting information from the Governor's office as a result of the fall of a shell -- of course, technically I don't know about it -- as a result of the initial discharge, that five people have lost their lives, that eight are injured, and that two are heavy -- while we're continuing these studies from here. The safety of our citizens is of course essential. I would like to state here that all of our security forces are now in charge of their duties in both the border area and the Akchakale. And there's no need for panic, no need for alarm, really, our government is trying to do its part in all its borders at the moment, with all its powers. Our Foreign Minister, our Home Secretary, and all relevant institutions are on the subject, and we are following the case, members of the government, if necessary... I'm just saying that we're following what should be done as a government. I pray for God's mercy to our brothers who have passed away.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0087par0067	But right now, Mr. Secretary, citizens have collapsed in the government's mansion, so please provide the authority of the state there, and do not allow some armed forces to threaten our citizens.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0088par0068	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0086par0069	There's no such problem in this dimension, our state at every point of our country, and at the same time in Akchakale, which I've just expressed, of course we don't want to have a political polemic issue done, but as a result, the events that have taken place in Syria and its reflections in this dimension are also inevitable, I'm afraid.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0088par0072	And on behalf of all my friends, on behalf of all the MPs, I ask God's mercy to all our dead citizens, and as the author of these events that often repeat themselves there, I condemn the government of Syria on behalf of the Parliament. [[Continue]] Dear friends, now, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party, Justice Wolf, Hakkari MP. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0089par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on part one of the bill, and I salute you all. First of all, because of the sad incident in Akchakale, I wish that this event would never happen again, and I wish God's mercy to our dead citizens, and my condolences to their relatives. We pray for immediate healing for the wounded. Of course, in the face of these cases of death, I hope that we, Congress, did not avoid the process by simply expressing our condolences when we hear of the events, but let's be followers, because these events, these deaths, are on our agenda every day, unfortunately. We've reached a point where we're not following the media anymore, because every news story we've seen, every story we've seen, the news of death, the chaos, and unfortunately, this is happening because we haven't put a road map in front of us to avoid these deaths, which we haven't done properly as Congress. Of course, we're going to express our sadness, but I don't think we should be content with just expressing our sadness. Of course, when we express our views on the first part of this bill in front of us, it is very important how we approach the concept of ▪ syndika. Now, there's a traditional concept of union in Turkey, its approach. The union was perceived as an institution or organization that only negotiates wages. And since it's already been perceived that way, and it's been passed here as an institution, so the union is considered to be just the agency that negotiates wages with the employer. Now, you can't develop a proper approach to the union until you've eliminated it, eliminated it. If really... all the orators who have ever spoken have somehow focused on the importance of the existence of trade unions to develop democratic life, but the union is, in essence, just the institution that negotiates wages. Unfortunately, that's how the Minister sees himself as an employer and develops his approach. That's the way it is. So if there's been no collective agreements for ten months, if the contracts haven't been signed, then that's a bit of a reason. It's just seen as a reflection of the price hikes of this issue, and here's the real problem. Because from an employer's point of view, I mean, from the government's point of view, basically, it's the government that's looking out for 80 per cent of all employers, which, mainly, is going to be the most affected when this bill passes. Because the government deals directly with only 8 per cent of the employees already working, or registered workers, and about 80 per cent of the workers working in public institutions within this 8 per cent. Other than that, the workers were already kept out of the loop. So far, the union organization has been brutalized, whatever they can do to keep it from being organized. An idea that's been built on the consummation of value, unfortunately, comes up here, which makes the rich more rich, depriving the employee of more rights. Now I have to remind the members of the government here. It's not much, but four days ago, five days ago, you announced a road map and said in that road map, "We're going to eliminate injustice in the development distribution." One of your basic arguments in the 2023 Vision Program. How are you going to lift it here? So with this approach, is it possible to remove it? Especially when we put the Prime Minister's argument next to it. What did he mean by Chinese? Running laborers for food and increasing production! In Turkey, I really want to know that data, and if Mr. Secretary would explain it to us... how much of the 12 million workers are working at minimum wage, how much of them are minimum wage? Mr. Secretary, I'd appreciate it if he could explain this data to us. Which is estimated to be over 70 percent. In an environment where more than 70 per cent people live on minimum wage, you will not have developed a fair approach if you enforce their collective agreements in this way. We forget, we forget that workers who express their democratic rights are locked up in prison. Many workers in prisons now want to participate in democratic life, simply because they express their democratic rights. We must remember that workers who exercise their right to strike have been fired. We're interested in the Minister. It's not enough to say. How long have those workers been fired? I mean, you're interested, so what? The concern is that he was fired from work, and he was replaced by a humble worker. That's the point. Other workers were replaced, employed. If you attempt to blackmail through the unions with the data of the TÜİK (TİK) or with the data of the SGK institution, you will not get a positive result, which includes blackmail. When you examine the bill itself, or matter, or matter, you get a lot of trouble. For example, the concept of the foundation. An example is that if workers at any workplace are organized as a association, and they look for the rights of workers who work at the workplace. If they place the article, you will have to sign a collective contract with that association according to this bill that you have brought to us. If that's what you mean, you'll have to keep it open. Or if there is a community, a working council, a labor foundation for this purpose, you will have to sign collective agreements with all of them after expressing the concept of the foundation. In order to prevent this turmoil, you have to express the concept or concept of confederation in this text, you have to pass it, you have to change it first. The Minister's or the government's rights to the unions should not be present, directly or indirectly, to provide a basis for this judgment. When you examine it as a whole, you see the existence of this judgment. Why are you doing this? Of course you're doing it to starve the worker. It doesn't mean anything else. You're doing it to limit democratic rights and freedoms. The union doesn't just mean the institution that negotiates wages with the employer, it's not the union. If you really want NGOs, unions, semi-official democratic organisations to participate in social life, democratic life, then that shouldn't be the approach. This still seals the traces of September 12th coup law in our minds. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's a text that shows you're moving, so it's not safe to go through it like this. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0090par0094	Mr. Kurt, thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Smyrna MP Musa Çam. Mr. Pine, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0091par0099	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you with love and respect. Of course, I am also concerned about the sad news that just came from Akchakale, saying that I ask God's mercy to the people who lost their lives, to their families. But we don't always have to express our condolences around here, or it doesn't solve problems when Mr. Secretary says that all the government's law enforcement forces are in the area and all kinds of security and precautions are being taken. It is clear and clear that the Syrian policy of government is wrong, and it is taking us to a swamp there every day, and I think that in the coming days we will have much more serious concerns and problems about Syria, and we warn the government from here once again: We must go through the principle of peace in Jerusalem, as Ataturk said, and live in brotherly ways with our neighbors. We are gathered here today to discuss Job Law Number 197 or Community Business Relations, or Union Law, or Common Contract Law, and therefore I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group over the first chapter. I now salute Turkish Airlines employees who have been wrongly and unfairly fired for 177 days and 305 workers who have resisted at the airport in Istanbul. I also salute our friends, who have fought for union rights in different cities of our country and who have resisted for it. Precious parliamentarians, drafted by the Ministry of Labour and Social Security and adopted by the Council of Ministers on 24/10/2011, were discussed on 7/2/2012 in the European Union's Integration Commission and the subcommittee of the European Union on 31/1/2012, which was referred to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 7/2/2012 to the Commission on 1/3/2012. A full year has passed since the meeting of the Council of Ministers, and seven months since it was discussed in the commissions, but it has finally arrived in the Turkish Parliament of the Grand National Assembly of the Union. So why did he come a year or seven months late, guys? Why? The reason for this is that the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey, the Union of Turkey, the OSIAD, the TUSKON, the Chamber of Commerce, the industrial chambers, the employers' organisations, has thus far failed to discuss the Unions' Law at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. One of the main reasons for this is that capital environments, business environments are a year of crisis in 2012, that there will be a serious recession, that there will be a serious recession, that there will be a reduction in economics, and that it must be suppressed with anxiety and anxiety that this shrinking will cause, and it is clear that the Unions' Law is to be bought time by extension in the Community Contract Act. Dear friends, it has been thirty-two years since the Constitution of September 12, 1982. The constitution has been changed 17 times so far. According to this, hundreds of laws have been passed within 32 years, the law has been passed, the bag is passed, but there is only one law untouched, which is the Union Law, the Strike and the Mass Contract Act. The main reason he hasn't been here in 32 years is because of the views of the ruling authorities and especially the AKP government, the workers, the workers, the workers, and the union that have been running this country for the past ten years. Unfortunately, for ten years, the government's view of workers, workers, and unions has been cross-eyed. While speaking on the stand at various conventions, union congresses or various meetings, the prime minister has made it clear and clear that he will show his finger to the workers and trade unionists and show them the ropes, if he does not know their limits. Dear friends, when Turkey opened last year after the election of the Grand National Assembly, Mr. Secretary decided to postpone statistics published every year in January and July with a thesis he had brought here by the end of the year, and that was the end. By 2012, in January 2012, the new Unions' Law will take effect and we will have a new collective agreement. He said. He said, "But unfortunately, the pressure on the Minister's commitment did not apply and could not be implemented." The statistics, which will be published in January and July, have not been published, but 1,700 collective contract talks at the workplace were unfortunately unconnected, and 400,000 workers have not benefited since January; and despite any increase in electricity, natural gas, oil, tube, bread, sugar, gas, gas prices have not been raised enough, unfortunately, for workers, workers, workers, workers, workers. Mr. Secretary just said that the Union wants zero dams, and the employers want 5%. Mr. Secretary, I don't understand that the labour unions' law is being discussed, and I don't understand that they're being given an opinion on a matter that concerns workers. Besides, there is no record that the state of the Republic of Turkey will listen to what the employers have to say or apply it. There are international agreements and contracts under which the state of the Republic of Turkey has signed. One of them is the ILO contracts. Contracts 87 and 98 are open and clear, and the state of the Republic of Turkey must observe this clearly and clearly, but unfortunately, the government only listens to what the employers say and tries to do what they say and ignores their signature. Dear friends, if this law passes through the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in this way, we'll be facing a picture like this: 57% of the current insured workers will not be able to find a union to sign a collective contract. Seven sectors will fall under the dam, with six million, 298 thousand people; construction, tourism, health, transport, trade, bureau, education, press and port workers will have a collective contract dream. Under the law, the labour arm dam will be implemented at 1 per cent and 3%. In the private sector, there is serious danger in the entire trade union movement in the coming years, given the fact that the actual unionisation rate is around 3%. Dear friends, at the moment 52 unions in Turkey are collectively contracting. If this law is adopted in this way, 29 unions will remain under the dam and only 23 unions will remain in the position to co-sign collective agreements. Is this the advanced democracy? Is this how you guys get rid of the bans and laws of September 12th? It's not. Since there are 52 collective agreements in Turkey right now, we should increase them, but with the law that you will now vote for and issue, the number of unions in Turkey will fall to 23. 29 unions will remain out of it, and hundreds, thousands of workers and workers will remain out of the scope of collective agreements. Friends in the eight sectors will establish one union sovereignty. Now, something's going to happen in this sector, and there's going to be a whole cartel in the trade union area, and no one outside those eight unions is going to get to the point where there's going to be a collective contract in Turkey. 2 million 868 thousand insured workers will have to join the single union. Despite the ILO norms of the AKP government and the European Social Condition, the main reason why it wants to pass this law is to fight, fight, fight, purge the union movement, build yellow unions, which will only be the government's backyard, friends. Therefore, there is only one solution to the establishment of a multi-level collective bargaining and collective agreement arrangement, the removal of all dams, including a 10 per cent labour arm dam for the right to a collective contract, the simplification of collective contract procedure, the recognition of unions as organisations representing all of their employees, the implementation of referendums in the disputes -- the establishment of the polls, and the removal of all workers, and the removal of their rights from the Unions -- and the removal of their right to the Unions. He believes that the country's workers deserve a union legislation, which is in line with the illegal, dam-free, ILO contracts and the European Social Condition, which literally guarantees union rights and freedoms, which will allow him to wipe out the destruction created by September 12th, and we invite the Turkish Parliament for a law that is without dams, illegal, union rights. Most importantly, you're always on the stand, and you're saying: "We're fighting against September 12th, we're changing the laws. We're claiming that this law you've brought is a continuation of September 12th law, and unfortunately, you're the rest of September 12th, my friends. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0092par0117	Mr. Pine, thank you. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Mahmoud Kozar, Congresswoman of Şanlıurfa. Mr. Runar, you've also asked for a word on your behalf, for 15 minutes of your time.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0093par0120	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, before I begin my words, I salute your grand delegation and all my fellow lawmakers. I ask God's mercy for our citizens who have passed away in this incident in Akchakale. My condolences to your relatives, and to the wounded, I pray God for a speedy recovery. Dear friends, today, here we are changing a law that is extremely important for working life, which is the product of 1980 coups. In particular, the 1980 coup was a process in our country not only in democratic rights, but also in working life, in the union movement and in the union struggle for freedom. In the process, some trade unions were banned, while some unions were oppressed, and unfortunately a significant number of unions paid very serious costs. In this process, the law imposed on working life was laws 2821 and 2822. In our country, our government, which has dealt with the custody regime, has had a serious struggle to touch this area, where no one has ever touched it, to remove the obstacles to the union rights, and in this struggle, there is no doubt that the most important process, as we all know, has been the referendum held on 12 September 2010, at the point of democratisation of our country's individual freedom field and, at the point of democratisation of our country's working life. In this referendum, many of the regulations placed as a product of the coup at the point of the dignity of our nation's will have been eliminated by our nation, while at the same time a crucial step has been taken at the point of ending the provisions of the coup intended by our employees, both for our officers and for our workers. As it is known, one of the most important legal regulations that we have made as Parliament with the referendum is that the collective contract law, which we all know is being passed by Parliament. As it is known, public employees in this country have now had a legal arrangement of the general collective agreement on general issues, local community contracts signed in local municipalities and private administrations, as well as the local service union's mandate, as well as the government's right to a collective agreement with the government on the final decision. In this process, again, the Law on Health and Safety, which guarantees the rights to work in a healthy and secure environment, which is one of the most basic human rights for employees, has been one of the key regulations that were legalized in the Parliament last year. Today, hopefully, when the process of this law is completed, we will have at least a significant result in removing the product of the coup in the labor unionism movement, along with this law, which I believe will be changed to the Union and the collective contract. Dear friends, there are many new regulations as we prepare this legal arrangement. The arrangement is not only a regulation of the Constitutional Amendment, it is also a bill drafted by Turkey to consider the criticism of the European Union's acquisitor and the criticism of the ILO (ILO) on union freedoms. As it is known, the meetings held at the ILO (ILO) year after year are being criticised for the failures in the legislation in Turkey's working life, and it is reported to relevant bodies, the government, that they should be corrected as soon as possible. In many of the technical arrangements that I'm about to go into, as it has just been stated, we will consider not only outside the ILO norms, but all the criticisms that ILO has done to Turkey and the issues that it wants to change. In this arrangement of problems in our working life here, we see that the number of businesses has been reduced to 21. The decline in the number of businesses, reduction in reductions, was entirely done in line with the European Union and the ILO norms, thus opening the way for stronger trade unionism. Again, this law has solved the problem of our colleagues, especially from the labor union, with their opposition to authority, as the most important problem during the union struggle. Due to inter-union competition, competency appeals have taken many years in court, unfortunately there are no collective agreements, and we all know that the biggest victim is employees, workers and workers, and workers, due to the failure of collective employment contracts. For years, unfortunately, they have had the most important reason for not having a collective contract of employment for employers, which is to be contested by appeals of authority and not to be seated at the collective contract table without an appeal to authority. With this arrangement, I'd like to make it very clear that any further appeals to authority are now open to sitting directly at the collective contract table without the result of the court delay, and that the demands to identify the workforce in the objections of authority are no longer a waiting issue. Dear friends, in this legal arrangement again, all regulations concerning the internal functioning of trade unions are expressed in the law -- another issue that ILO has made Turkey a subject of criticism every year without interruption in all its meetings and wants to be replaced by the existing laws 2821 and 2822. In addition to this arrangement, all important provisions for the internal functioning of trade unions, in accordance with the European Union and the ILO norms, were removed from the text of the law, which was left to the unions' regulations. The most important achievement of these issues about the functioning of unions is that the union members have more say in the decisions that are being made about them, which are essential to their working life here. Dear friends, another important arrangement is that the right to establish a central international organisation in Turkey is organised by this law. The existing Law 2821 provides an arrangement on how trade unions in Turkey, labour unions in Europe, and international organisations in the world, with the current law of collective business relations, not only Turkey being a member of international organisations, but also the right to establish an international institution for our unions in Turkey. In particular, it is a very important provision for Turkey to reflect on this working life of a Turkey that has a global power struggle, an agenda, a vision for the future, and I hope that now our unions in Turkey will make a significant contribution to Turkey's vision by forming a union of Turkish-based unions in different parts of the world. Again, in this law, the bond between workers and the union has been seriously strengthened by the arrangement that does not affect union membership by the non-interrupted year's unemployment of a member of the labour union. Again, in the same line of work, it is also part of the law that allows workers working in different businesses to become members of more than one union. In particular, in the September 12th referendum, I would like to remind you that this is an arrangement that we promised our employees, which is part of the Constitutional Amendment, which is now in parallel with the Constitutional amendment. Again, one of the most important criticisms that ILO has brought to Turkey is that there are no collective contracts and no collective agreements in the framework. For the first time, group contracts and framework contracts that exist in the modern industrial relations system are included in this law. The arrangement allows workers and employers represented in the Economic and Social Council to form framework contracts that include only their members at the work body level between member workers and employers' unions. Dear friends, one of the most controversial articles of this law is no doubt the labour arm dams. For years, all social parties have known that the trade union statistics were wrong, but unfortunately, no steps have been taken so far, but it's time to trade unionize through real data. As it is known, the Ministry of Labor publishes the statistics of working life in January and July twice a year by law. In these statistics, it determines how many workers work in the line of work and what union the workers belong to, and it publishes. Unfortunately, the numbers we're doing on this issue are the numbers reported by the unions that the Ministry of Labor has used so far, and we all know it's wrong. As the unions made these notifications, however, the numbers were never real numbers, since they were members from the day the unions were formed, but they didn't fall out of union membership due to the fact that they had to resign from work or because of death. As it is known, along with a legal arrangement in 2009, a legal arrangement has been made on the basis that statistics related to working life should be published on the basis of the Social Security Agency's data, instead of notifications of trade unions. This is an important arrangement that will allow us to step on a healthier ground every step we take regarding Turkey's working life. But since the arrangement for these dams has not been published... you know, these numbers have not been published, along with the law of postponement, which has come to the House two times. The most important reason for this postponement is that in the event of the issue of these numbers, many of our unions have no unions to represent our workers, so that they can't benefit from the collective contract. So the most important reason that we, the AK PARTY government, as an EC PARTY, are to postpone statistics that will be published on the basis of these SGK data starting in 2009 is that the workers are not victimized. The new arrangement is based on the reduction of the dam to one percent. As to the reduction of the threshold to 1 percent, which is now 10%, I have reduced the threshold here to 1 percent, which is 10 percent. So there's a drop like this. I won't be saying anything about it, but I'll just say that the data on the employees earlier were not healthy, and the numbers of members that the unions had determined were not healthy, but we will now be able to release the data in a healthy way, by taking the 1% dam to the center, based on the number of employees that will be determined for the first time. When you base this 1%, I want to make it very clear that when you compare it to 10 percent, it's still in the favour of the workers, the current situation is preserved, and there's a percentage of dams that will allow the current employees to sit at the collective contract table. Dear friends, one of the most important elements of this arrangement is the arrangements for the strike. You know, with the new arrangement, all provisions prohibiting political strike, general strike, solidarity strike, occupation of the workplace, slowing down business, reducing efficiency, some kind of strike and strike-like actions have been removed from the text of the law. Also, the union is the most victimised and critical of this, while the losses caused by the actions of individuals during the strike are being removed from the unions, the new arrangement includes the arrangement that puts the individual in charge of the business damage caused by individual actions on the strike. Dear friends, this law we're discussing is a very important law for working life. It's an important law, one by one, in order to get rid of the coup laws; an important law that restores the rights and freedoms of trade unions that they've been through like cylinders over the coups. Therefore, I thank all those who have worked in such a legal arrangement, and salute you with respect, love, and conversation. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0094par0143	Thank you, Mr. Runar. On behalf of the members of the first chapter, the last speaker is Mr. Oğuz Oyan, MP of İzmir. Mr. Oyan, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0095par0148	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are now arriving at an important delay in the Bill of Public Affairs Act. Actually, delay is important. There has been no collective talks in Turkey for a year and a half, no collective agreements, to be exact. This is a little bit like this: we spent the first five months of this year without raising the civil servant's salary, so we managed for a year and a half. We've managed this for a year and a half, and we'll continue to manage it by the end of the year. Can we save the budget this year? Worker's back, employee's back. My dear friends, look, working relations in Turkey are still being taken by the laws of September 12th. You've been in power for ten years, you've had ten years to change them, you haven't. Thirty years ago, a third of the laws have remained under your responsibility for the last ten years. It's a very important responsibility. This responsibility, this political responsibility, is on you. The idea of the 1980s was that the January 24th decisions used military force to undermine the laborer's very serious revenue distribution against the worker, causing a very serious distribution of income against the peasant, and they were conducted between 1980 and 1989 with very conscious policies. In the spring of 1989, the working class has moved to regain its rights, but on paper, all these oppressive laws remain in effect. The working class was able to deliver it in their 90, 89, 91, 93 contracts, but the IMF policies came back on the agenda with April 5th resolutions in 94. After that, the close monitoring agreement with the IMF and finally the stand-by agreement with the IMF on December 9, 99: This happened before you, but after that you became the authority to run this IMF deal until 2008, where you were constantly forced to work, to work, to work, to do its rights. Now, what do you expect after all this? The relief of all these thirty years of pressure is at least to give the rights of workers, workers, workers, who make up a great majority of this community. What do we see? For one thing, from April 28, 2008 to October 19, 2011, the Trilateral Council met countless times. These meetings are promised labor confederations. It says: "We will not bring any bill to Parliament without your approval." But is there such approval? Is that a confirmation? So now the unions are standing. They say such a bill does not represent them. It's clear that the agreements there are far behind. So that's where the agreement is. For example, you can see it in five thousandths of a thousandths of a dam for the labor arm, and then you're looking at, like, 15ths of a thousandths of a thousandth, and you're looking at 30ths of a thousand. Then, with the transition period, here's a little bit of gas extraction. My dear friends, in a society where the Economic and Social Council does not gather -- in fact, the voices of working people -- or the sounds they preach at the Trilateral Council -- how can you really manage this country with the consent of all social parties? How are you going to make arrangements in accordance with the 87th and 98th contracts of the ILO Convention and prevent Turkey from being blacklisted every year by the Appliation Committee because you do not comply with these regulations? How will you adapt to the European Convention on Human Rights, adapt to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights? So, even the 90th article of the Constitution... what does the 90th article of the Constitution say? It prioritizes international contracts according to local legislation. You don't even fit in, you're on the side of the European Social Condition, and you don't fit in. My dear friends, such an arrangement certainly means a loss of rights for employees, a great disappointment to their expectations. It is not possible to name this one after it. No arrangement of the dam systems, the triple dam system in effect, deserves such an adjective. So we can't really say that this bill is a good one. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0096par0156	Mr. Oyan, thank you. Congressmans, the talks on chapter one are complete. Now, we're going to do a question-and-answer procedure for 15 minutes. We have friends in the system, so I'll promise you one thing at a time. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0097par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I just asked you a question, which was a very important issue, but you couldn't answer because you didn't have the time. In Article 23, I told the employer that there was an arrangement under the guarantee of the union executives, but that the union administrators were not really guaranteed, that if they could not be elected after they were suspended in any way, there would be no obligation given to the employer when they wanted to return to work. It's a very serious issue, and it's very important that unions can be guaranteed, that executives can be guaranteed; otherwise, the unions won't be able to find a manager. I also looked at Article 29 of Union Law 2821. There, when their management period for union managers is over, it is imperative that the employer hire those people if he demands them. It's called, there's a situation that has been moved back. Do you plan on doing a study on this subject, making a motion?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0096par0163	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Agha... no. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0098par0166	Mr. President, Mr. Yilmaz just told me that you won't be able to find a manager, and I'm telling you. In Turkey, in a sports club ruled by the Associations' Law, the state is forced to seize the rulers. You give money, the Football Federation gives it, but I don't come to the tax leg -- you play with the dignity of a lot of people because you didn't cut it in the first place. Of course, managers have to pay the premiums, but you're looking for executives who don't come to the club, who don't come to the big city, who don't know anything, who don't know nothing, who don't know nothing about it, and five years later, you get their kids' money. That's not gonna happen! That's why football, especially in all three leagues in Turkey, is that you're making sure, from the start, you're taking precautions, you're victimizing people, you're paying social security premiums, but you're making sure that every month you don't cut it, you're embarrassing people, you're destroying them.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0096par0168	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Dear scholar Light...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0099par0170	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you haven't been able to answer just now, but I'd like to repeat that the system of slavery, which has become increasingly common in the time of your governments, unfortunately, is one of the biggest problems of the workers. Where do you think you're going with these applications? Do you have a solution to this subcontractor system? What's the level of these studies? Second: How will you solve the suffering of the workers who have been laid off after working for five months and twenty-nine days under Law 5620? Do you think there's a solution to all this? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0100par0174	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Cetin...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0101par0176	Mr. Minister, Mr. Gürkut just asked you, you didn't answer. It is imperative that you intervene in the games played on employees of the Anadolu Agency because employees of Anadolu Agency are currently under pressure to quit their job, to retire their pensioners. According to their contract, severance checks for each year include 50 days in the press business. Tomorrow, if they become members of the union established by the employer, they will lose their rights for 50 days, and we want to take advantage of it by paying the rights of solidarity. If they say so, it will be a loss of rights again. So don't nod like that, we know how this works under pressure. So, I say it's the Ministry of Labor's job to protect the rights of a government member at the Anadolu Agency, which seems to be under the supervision of Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0102par0180	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0103par0182	Mr. President, thank you. Minister, there are workers considered 4/C. Is there a collective contract or union right in this law for these 4/C people? I didn't see it in the law. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0104par0185	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0105par0187	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary didn't answer the question I asked about the Anadolu Agency, but I'd like to ask another question: Mr. Secretary, what is the debt situation of municipalities to social security institutions as of today? What are the ten municipalities that owe the most? How many municipalities were foreclosed on due to debts in 2003-2012? How many mayors have been elected from the ruling party, and how many have been elected from the opposition party? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0106par0190	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0107par0192	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, as you know, we have the extradition provisions in the Employment Act. We, for example, have a mayor who belongs to your party in Bolu, who produced a large number of workers, especially in 2004. These workers have won extradition cases, but none of them have been reinstated, Mayor. We all know the extradition system has never worked, especially in public. Do we plan to take more deterrent measures in the future? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0108par0195	Thank you. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0109par0197	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, during the last legislature, you passed a pension policy. We said it wasn't the law of attitude, that it was a hoax, and as a matter of fact, the point that's happening now confirms us. Our pensioners are in debt for the calculations, let alone getting a raise. All of our pensioners are being served with notifications, which demand a return of five thousand lira per cent on the grounds that the pensioners were miscalculationd. I've offered you a law on fixing this by your government. What conscience do you have about the fact that our pensioners are cut off from our pensioners for five thousand liras? What officers do these calculations? Do these accountants always count against pensioners? Mr. Secretary, our pensioners are demanding that this be corrected. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0110par0200	Thank you. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0111par0202	Mr. President, thank you. Minister, there are farm workers in our country, there are seasonal farm workers in our Bursa, they come for a period of four months, for example, working in Yenişehir. What I'd like to ask you, Mr. Secretary, is, are you making an arrangement with this bill, with this bill, with seasonal agricultural workers? Or I'd like to know what you think of it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0112par0206	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz, time's up. I apologize. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0113par0209	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, it's true that you have problems with these subcontractors. In this regard, they've established social parties and subcontractors associations, and we've come together with these, and we've made some identifications of 14 articles. We've converted them into a draft between the ministries and the Ministry of Labor as technical committees. If any of the political party groups are willing to contribute, we'll bring them up, we'll review them together, and they'll be referred to the Supreme Assembly as a draft. They're having serious problems with their working hours, their permits, their organisation, and their working hours, and they have demands. And as a government, I'd like to express our determination. I've just spoken from the podium about the solution to this problem, and we'll bring you the necessary work. It's about seasonal workers, as you know, 226,000 workers were recruited during our government period, six months of labor, but there's no arrangement for the under-employees. They continue to work as seasonal workers, as we stated. I asked my friends one more time about the employees of the Anadolu Agency, and there's no complaint that has come to us. If it does, of course, I would like to state that as the Ministry, we will make the necessary attempt under our jurisdiction. The unionisation and union status of 4/C Boys are in the public eye. So I'd like to point out that there's nothing to do with labor unions. This issue was tabled during the collective agreement talks this year, and they were able to work for 11 months and 28 days. As you know before, their wages were also arranged, so they work for 12 months a year. The municipal debt to the USSR is, of course, a detailed question. Let us present this matter in writing. However, I would like to point out that we have made no distinction between municipalities, that there is absolutely no distinction between taking and collecting, as we have not discriminated against payment. Former assistance to municipalities has unfortunately been involved in the share of the County Bank, and municipalities have been helped through some political debates. From the day we arrived -- Mr. Prime Minister being a city official, taking into account the advantage of coming from the municipality -- there's a reduction in the allocations of our local public institutions, which serve the public, the community, 75 million, to which our municipalities can offer equal service, there's certainly no increase; there's an equal and fair practice, and there's the same collections. We, the Social Security Agency, have also made a legal arrangement for our collections in the past term, and we continue to work as such in exchange for some of our municipalities, such as the exchange of their real estate with their seized real estate. Once again, our approach to all our municipalities is equal. About layoffs, as you know, the verdict is four to eight months. If the choice is to pay these compensations or start a business, it is a matter between the worker and the employer, so the decision is the decision of the judiciary. The amendments to the initiative are reviewing files on the pensioner from 2,700,000 years ago. The differences will be reflected in 1,1,2013, due to the impact of about 2 million pensioners. A problem spoken and unresolved over the years will have been solved on 1,1,2013. In the past period, at the technical level before 2000, as you know, we've been able to identify some of the errors at the monthly binding point when we've looked at the files one by one. This is what happens in the months and months and files at other times, but since we've been doing a full review of the 2,700,000 files, we've now put our applications on today's figures, which have been paid more than 3,500, since we've been reviewing the 2,700,000 files. The situation with these union managers is that business contracts are suspended as managers become managers. There's nothing wrong here. I don't know what you mean by that, but about the judgment...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0114par0218	As soon as their management was over, you removed the obligation to be taken to the workplace when they applied, Mr. Minister, it's called a dissolution of employment by the employer. That's not...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0113par0219	We're saying he didn't get up, but if there's a conflict, there's an open road to judgment.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0114par0220	But okay? So the union manager should have more assurances, like the business representative, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0113par0221	I mean, if you read the second joke of 23...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0114par0222	I'm reading. I'm at 2821/29 even ahead of him, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0113par0223	Yes, now, Osmaniye... the situation of the worker who was just removed from the Tosian Iron Steel factory. The subject of 23 workers' application has been reviewed, and no confirmation has been made of allegations that workers have been fired for a union reason. Investigators have identified workers who work at the workplace as employees of a fixed-term service contract. I'm pointing that out, too. There was a question about the associations, and I'm guessing it was a matter within the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0115par0225	No, sir, you're making the bonus collection, you're impounding those people. Why are you throwing it away?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0113par0226	So anyway... let's make it up to you in private and make it up to you when there's an injustice, sir. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0116par0228	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Talks on chapter one are complete. I'll submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motions on that clause if there is one. There are three motions on article 1, which I read according to the order of arrival: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Common Business Relations Act of 197 shall be renamed "The Syndicates and Mass Business Contracts Act." Muharrem Fine Oktay Vural of Nurettin Canik Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 197 Common Business Relations Bill of the United States. We provide and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Süleyman Çelebi Glorious From the Heart Free Special Nurettin Iron Aytun Çiray Article 1: The aim of this law is to establish trade unions of labour and employers and other rights subjects, the establishment of unions and Confederates, management, management, management, management, management, and organisation, and the mutual agreements of workers and employers to establish the conditions for working with economic and social conditions, the peaceful resolution of conflicts, the way and the procedures related to the strike and lokavta. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 197 Sequents of Common Business Affairs Bill 1 concerning the purpose of the Law. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Article 1 - The purpose of this Law is to establish the establishment of labour unions and confederations, governance, functioning, auditing, and organisation procedures and fundamentals for the employment and social rights of workers and collective agreements with employers to determine the conditions for working with economic and social rights, to resolve discrepancies in peaceful ways, to resort to strikes. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Abdullah Levent Tüzel Hasip Kaplan Halil Aksoy Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0117par0257	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0116par0258	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0118par0259	He'll talk to Levent Corporate.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0116par0260	Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0119par0261	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, my condolences for the deaths of five citizens in Syria Akchakale. Of course, Parliament Speaker of Syria has spoken of condemning the government of Syria, and let's condemn Syria, but as a result, there are imperialist plans that lead Syria to chaos, chaos, and an AKP policy linked to these plans. In fact, you have to learn from it and turn away from it. As we begin, I would like to greet the working class of Turkey because we discussed a law that directly concerns our working class, and there has been talks about a law that has been expected for ten years, and it is seen today that as a ministry arrangement, especially for waiting powers, the law of blackmail law against the Turkish working class and its workers has been passed as a force of union. Now we have come to terms with the Law on Public Business Affairs, but it is expected to be renamed on responses. It's an arrangement that, like other laws that have been passed so far, uses the concepts of neoliberal markets, is needed. Even if it's called unions and a collective contract law, it'll just be a changed name, it won't change its content. Social dialogue, flexible work, guaranteed flexibility, a lot of similar concepts actually want to be adopted into our working class. In fact, AKP Power and today's capitalist capital order want trade unions with no name, but no action, without a rights struggle, because the capital class will actually take from the working class, and their fear of the working class is not over, and that's actually what this law is. The two forces of the struggle for societies -- the working class, the bourgeois for capital -- are actually fighting and fighting. There's been a lot of settledown on the reckoning of September 12th. In fact, the AKP wants to connect the government to itself and control the unions that the coupkers shut down and then restrict and then control them in terms of today's neoliberal needs. What's with all the neoliberal needs? Public liquidation, privatisation, flexible work. A bureaucratic unionist who will submit to all of this and pledge his allegiance to it, and he intends to uphold and bring it with this law. In fact, the main goal of September 12th was the working class and its organised power unions, and now the AKP government has made it a target. So we know the closest example of this is the firing of organized workers in the air-business unit that is now on its 127th day. What was it? In one night, a very clear strike ban was imposed on the fight against a pirate taxi, which means that the AKP had dared to do so during this time of mastery that many capital forces did not. So our word and warning are actually required to follow and follow this law that is meant to be passed to the bread case, to the workers who go to work every day, and to the mines that have been burned in the malls, to the workers who have been dusted in the lake in the mine killings, to the workers who have been iced in the lake, to follow this law that is meant to be passed for them. What's in the middle? Behind bright words and promises, the bridge is a wild exploitation wheel. Such an attack is followed by subcontractor practices, flexibility, international employment contract and guaranteed work, employment-friendly growth. In fact, once again, the government has shown opportunity politics in this law. This existing Unions Act, which has a lot of complaints, is not too late to turn its demand into an opportunity. In fact, it's the law of burying trade unions, not keeping unions alive and renovating, but literally burying unions, and unfortunately, behind these unions, there's no such thing as knowing them well, but on the basis of this law, the unions will examine their own shortcomings. Yes, the unions are being buried, due to the ongoing dams, which have been expressed here, many unions will be historyd with loss of power. Actually, Mr. Secretary here has mentioned numbers, but the virtual aspect of these numbers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yes, it's virtual, but the workers who were fired for unionizing are also the reality of this country. We want to remind and mention them.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0120par0271	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. I submit the motion to your votes. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 197 Common Business Relations Bill of the United States. We provide and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Süleyman Çelebi (Istanbul) and his friends Article 1: The aim of this law is to establish trade unions for workers and employers and other rights subjects, the dry-laws and Confederates, management, management, control, work and organisation-based procedures, and the collective agreement of workers and employers to determine the conditions for working with their economic and social situation, to resolve conflicts in peaceful ways, to organize the rules and rules of the strike and lokavta. Izzet Cetin (Ankara) and his friends Do you agree with the last reading motion, Mr. Commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0121par0282	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0120par0283	Mr. Cetin, come in. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0122par0286	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to our motion on the 1st Amendment. My dear friends, our Minister -- he's not here, our Minister of Labor -- we're moving from the holistic realm to the real world. He said in his speech in chapter one. Now, the aim of the unions was determined from time to time by definition, and Unions Act 274 was to establish a union without prior permission from employees in the 1963 Unions Act. Later, an arrangement there defined the unions as organizations founded to protect the rights and interests of the workers. Later, laws 2821 and 2822 changed the concept of workers and employers in the laws produced by September 12 and 2822, and there, it was a task imposed on the unions to protect and develop economic and social rights and benefits in their working relations -- employees and employers -- rather than public rights or benefits. Now, the law we've been waiting for ten years, which we've been waiting for, looks like a unified version of Articles 2821 and 2822, but the main thing is that it's a non-communist task that's been imposed on the unions, a community-employees, laborers, and trade unions. It's just that this law determines the foundation, the procedure, the procedure, and the basis of the unions so that they can continue their activities as collective contractors. And also to resolve it in peaceful ways, which we have criticised in the old laws. The employer always wants to make more profit, and the worker wants to live more humanely and get better wages. Therefore, there is a conflict of interest here. You will resolve this in a peaceful way. It means that I will use my power as a state of power. For him, it would be more appropriate to resolve it there, at least within the framework of the agreement, rather than in the peaceful way. On the other hand, it is a right to strike in modern countries, my dear friends, but it is not a right to lockout. The lockout is a human shame that lays down workers, workers, not just employees, but workers, who have a negative effect on their parents, their children, who have prevented them from feeding, dressing, education, and health. Therefore, we are making a modern law. It can only be the result of the logic of September 12th and a dominant tyrant's understanding to call it a lockout and put it next to the strike. That's why we... And the thing to consider here is that the Law 274, which was in effect before September 12th, was actually a law in the freedom system, and it gave employees the right to do so. Now, we've signed international contracts. There, the arrangement that we call other rights subjects, for example, allows pensioners to unionize, should be included in this law. In fact, Mr. Prime Minister said in a speech that I agree with Mr. Prime Minister about this area. Let's call them workers. Let's unite the workers and the officers around a purpose. Such an arrangement is needed, and the workers are to unite all workers around the concept. In this way, I would like to ask all of you to accept our motion by adding to the concept of protecting and improving the rights and interests of those who were charged with the unions, except in law number 2821, and in collective agreements that exist in Act 274, which I have expressed in my speech.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0123par0295	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the name of the Common Business Relations Act of 197, which is currently being discussed as Syndicates and the Common Business Contract Act. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, I agree with this motion, which is signed by all groups, but we don't have a majority, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0124par0304	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0123par0305	I'm reading the reason: Reason: The provisions between the second and seventh chapters of the law are the provisions related to union organisations, and the law is intended to be renamed as Unions and Community Business Contracts Act. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the first article: those who accept... those who refuse... the first article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 2: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 197 Orders of the Law on Public Business Affairs (Seconds). In Article 1, we propose and propose that the union definition of the 1st be changed as follows. (g) The Union is a group of communities established by workers and workers to work together in the workplace, to protect their common economic, social rights and interests, and to improve the working conditions. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Levent Tüzel Hasip Kaplan Halil Aksoy Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 2nd article (g) of the 197 Group Business Relations Bill (e.g.), which is from negotiation, should be changed in the following way and (i) jokes (e.g.), and that the definitions of other articles be rearranged according to this change. The Syndicate: in working relations with the basic rights and freedoms of its members, they have at least seven workers or employers coming together to work in a business office to protect and improve their common economic and social rights and interests. Suleiman Çelebi Dr. Exalted be He above all that they associate with Him. Nurettin Iron Aytun Çiray Free Special Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We can't participate, Mr. President. Mr. Çelebi, please. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0125par0332	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, so in my speech, of course, we're talking about a very comprehensive law in 20 minutes -- we can't go through all the details. Mr. Secretary, I wish he were here right now. He first approached me with a figure of 85,000 or a large number of 8.500. So when you go down from 10 percent to 1 percent, it's a little bit small, of course, but what I'm saying here, even though it was on paper, even if it was the wrong statistics -- it wasn't the union's fault -- those unions had crossed the 10% threshold. Now, when it's down to 1%, even 1% of those unions can't get past the 1 percent threshold, which is 8.500 people. He's not a union, he's at least a union in each confederation, and I'm not talking about one 8,500, I'm not talking about at least three confederated confederates, I'm talking about an increase in numbers over 8,500 people and because of their mergers in this new line of work. So first of all, it needs to be very clear that there should not be an incident, that there should not be an arrangement that will cause loss of rights. Let's at least make sure that this 8.500 is a new approach to finding out that there are unions who can't make it through right now. And let's say that Mr. Secretary says, yes, in the event of a 1 per cent implementation, if there is no temporary arrangement, ten unions have the right to hold a collective contract, call for collective agreements, and that the unions that are now waiting for the 350,000 can't cross the dam. So let's not treat this for dressing. Let's not slaughter this law now, with temporary materials around here, with no management, with a solution. This law is an important law. For 30 years, the working class has had expectations. We've been talking about this law for ten years. Let's not be unfair. As for our proposal: Now, with the latest proposal that we agreed on, we merged it into the Law on Common Business, instead of the Law on Constructions, and the Law on Public Business. I find that to be the right step in this matter. Now, it's not technically right for him to remain in Article 2 as he fills it. Therefore, it makes more sense that the confederation names are put there and that an arrangement that matches the union literature is now being made. By sticking to the sentences we propose, let's finish this at a technically appropriate level, instead of an objective logic that says, "Let's reject it." Tomorrow, what was that organization, where did it come from? It's an arrangement that we offer to make its scope, its name, its imagination, its fiction right, without turning the debates into another institution when it comes to trial. In this sense, I would like to say once again that our fellow MPs need to edit this new -- which we have just agreed to -- in the two-point article, which we have voted on -- in accordance with the title, which is technically necessary. Once again, I salute the High Council with respect, with love.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0126par0337	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 197 Orders of the Common Business Charter (P.A.). In this article, we propose and propose that the union definition of the 1st be changed in the 1st bend (e.g.) joke be changed in the following way. Ü) The Union is a group of groups of workers and workers who, under the care of their basic rights and rights and rights to protect the common economics, social rights and interests of the members, formed by the number of people in their charters to meet and operate in the workplace to improve the working conditions. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0127par0347	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0128par0348	Abdullah Levent corporate...
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0126par0349	Mr. Corporate, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0129par0350	Thank you. We'd be surprised if they did. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, yes, the union definition requires a proper definition of the union's name, and the reality of our country is, of course, the union is the name of the organised response against the injustice of income, the exploitation of labor, the poverty, the job killings, the firings, many of these capital attacks. Especially when we say economics, one after the other, and of course the increasing profits of capital are the union, which is the name of changing the laborer's painting that's getting poorer, but when we look at our country, the workers who are supposed to form unions, become members, grow workers are basically afraid of the union. Who's responsible for this? Of course, the boss and union bureaucrats have done it together. What does the worker I met at a meeting with at Kopeeli say, who took down the 4 millionth Ford product from the counter? He's afraid of being fired and unionized and not being taken care of, that's first. Second, this worker, the metal worker, is the longest and most efficient worker who receives the least reports. This is the Turkish employee's record and character. Now, what the Prime Minister is trying to raise is a generation of religious youth and laborers, who will not speak out of all this savagery, they will obey, they will obey. In this law, all these sneaky accounts are meant to be covered. In fact, the equity class, and politicians like his Justice and Development Party, know that without labour, without labor, there is no production. But it's also important to know that if you think he's gonna put his class and unions under the law, you're wrong. Of course, the working class must know from the law brought before them that there will be no strong unions that he will join in fighting these attacks, that he will organize. Unions will be the result of the struggle of our working class. The powerful union will be created by workers, not by this kind of legislation. I just pointed out when I was finishing my words, Mr. Secretary is talking about virtual numbers, virtual numbers, but since he's unionized in our country, because he's in a union struggle, it's our reality that he's getting fired for seeking rights. Togo workers in Ankara, Billur Tuz workers in İzmir, textile workers in İstanbul, Textsim workers in Istanbul, all of these -- workers whose numbers are tens of thousands -- are actually responding to the Minister. Now, this law is the law of 75 million, it is not the law of Faruk Çelik. It is not the law of 75 million workers, even workers, who make this life, it is not the law of workers who carry this people into the future. In fact, it's typical that, like all laws that have come out of the last legislature, such as any other law that's ever passed, the AKP government, which has won from stealing, Ranttan and corruption, has devised a scheme to exploit the labor of the people, a law that protects the future of those who maintain this order. Now, Mr. Secretary says: "We won't sign any regulations against labor." Well, then you have to ask -- the lockout -- which is the name of the collective suspension of workers -- how can you be with the laborer when you're on strike? We must be very clear today, the House must admit that lockout is a crime and it must be banned. But now this arrangement, lockout, here, in the name of neutrality, is being watched here in order to protect all social areas. It is important for the unions to maintain the right to strike together, in an unbreakable, principled approach, but with this law, the authorization procedures, collective contract procedures, strike procedures, the government, public intervention, the bans here, the procrastinations here, and all sorts of procedures brought in here cannot use this right, making this freedom unequivocal to the right to organize. So, we, for the same reasons as the last semester, have been known to be general health, national security... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...in order to protect the rights of lastic workers, city workers, without forgetting that their strike was banned, our working class will fight against these laws. He will break these laws, and from here he will defend his rights against the AKP government. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0130par0364	Mr. Corporate, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 3 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 3 of the Common Business Relations Charter (2) be removed from the article text. Suleiman Çelebi Dr. Exalted be He above all that they associate with Him. Nurettin Iron Aytun Çiray Free Special İzzet Cetin Musa Pine Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0131par0379	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0130par0380	Mr. Cetin, come in.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0132par0381	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Dear friends, when I took a pledge on the whole of the bill, it was this substance that I read, and I read it one more time, that the establishment in this Law is established without prior permission, according to its proper and fundamentals. This is a concrete picture of the unionism, the union rights and the freedom of the collective contract, and the owners say that they're taking steps forward on the freedom of the contract, and that they're even afraid to use the word "confederation" and the word "confederation." Indeed, there is no way to understand this if you do not have the title of the 2nd article, if you do not see that the concept of the formation of the 2nd article includes union and confederations in the context of the definitions. So I want to get to the bottom of this after I've made it clear that even in terms of the law-making technique, the concept of a redaction is of great use in fixing it as syndications and confederations. Dear friends, in view of this clause, it appears to be abbreviated to Articles 3 and 6 of the previous Unions Act 2821. The article seems very innocent, but if you're promising to create a freedom of unionism, free unionism and union rights, you need to look very carefully at this material. (1) I read in the third joke, I will not read it again -- it operates in the workplace where the unions are established. You're going to break down labor unions in the Unions Act, you're going to release employers' unions, you're going to release public employers' unions. Friends, the arrangement here and the public-employee unions really need to be discussed. The state transfers funds from the tax-paying budget of its worker to public employers' unions under the name of ίaitatί, one. Second: The state -- I just said -- kneels in front of the employers, especially the TOBB -- who just counted friends, and I pronounce them differently -- in front of employers who are not afraid to use force -- and I say it on purpose. So that's what the Offices Stock Exchange Union wanted, said not to pass the law, and the Minister said to do so, so the Minister can't sign it. Public employers' unions are unnecessary to this country, unnecessary because the state does not keep the employer in line with its employee, at least it has to be neutral, it has to be at equal distance to the parties. Therefore, the state's presence in front of the worker in a different organisation under the name of the public employers' unions is held in the hands of the worker, standing at the top of the workers. Therefore, we sincerely offered to remove the entire 2nd joke. I mean, it's not an offer to be made here. The government's ministers, in any way -- the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Labor -- are already on their side when contracts go into a conflict. Public employers' unions use their powers as well as their employers, taking advantage of their necessary staff and so on, to demonstrate their strength in the face of labor unions. So you've finished enough of the unions, and you've joined the employers under the name of the public employers' unions, which means you're against the workers -- as I just told you. Then I'll say it in my heart, and I'll say it in my heart, that there's no labour, no labourer, no pensioner, no union, no farmer, no peasant. For him, the removal of this second joke from the text of matter requires a democratic understanding, a necessity. Once again, I ask you to attend the motion carefully, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0133par0391	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 3 is accepted. There are three motions on Article 4 that I have read according to the order of arrival: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 4 of the 197 Common Business Relations Act, referred to in Article 4, we provide and propose that the number 16 working staff, which is included in the Number (1) Numbered Cetve, be replaced by the construction of the ship's workforce, shipping and antrepomism, and that the number 17 is removed from the text. Recep of Nurettin Canikli Special Bazaar Barracks Ahmet Yeni Bulent Turan Adnan Yilmaz To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 4 / 567 of the Common Business Relations Act. We propose and provide a change in the workhouses, which are held in the additional 1-numbered ruler, in the following way. 1 Food, hunting and fishing, agriculture and forestry 3 Oil, chemistry, rubber, plastic and medicine 4 Weaving, ready clothing and skin 8 Bank, finance and insurance 9 Trade, Office, Education 11 Cement, soil and glass 15 Transport, storage and training 16 Health, Social Services 17 Accommodation and entertainment Rusar Demirel Ali Öz Ali Halaman Nevzat Don't Be Afraid, D. Ali Torlak Mehmet Günal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and change the accompanying joke (1) The Numbered Cetvellin and (3) of Article 4 of the Common Business Relations Charter (1). Solomon's Çelebi Glorious From the Heart Nurettin Iron Aytun Çiray Free Special 01 Hunting and fishing, agriculture 03 Mining and quarry 04 Oil, chemistry, rubber, plastic and medicine 05 Weaving, ready clothes and leather 10 Bank, finance and insurance 11 Trade, Office, Education and Fine Arts 12 Cement, earth and glass 13 Metal and Shipbuilding 16 Transport, storage and training 18 Health, Social Services 19 Accommodation and entertainment 20 Defence Industry and Security (3) An agreement shall be carried out by the Ministry, taking into account the view of labour and employers' confederations and considering international norms. Commission, do you agree with the final motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0134par0462	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0133par0463	Mr. Çelebi, please.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0135par0464	Mr. President, dear friends, this is the arrangement that we're talking about, now, about what the most important working arm is going to be. In our earlier legislation, there was an arrangement set up by trade unions, which was established according to trade unions and against international standards. And I see again today that the other motion that was brought in will be voted shortly, depending on the situation of the unions and on the workforces they're going to be in, it would be better if they were wherever they were. The AKP gave a proposal developed with logic. From the beginning, we've expressed our demand that this be set up in a certain standard, an international standard, a regulation in accordance with international standards. The main objective here is to bring this proposal with an understanding of whatever trade union there is and whatever confederation there is in any line of work. Look, shipbuilding, I stress -- all the engineers here, all the experts, technicians, however many friends and deputies there are -- is this a transportation relationship, or is it a business branch that should be included in a metal sector based on its construction? Its production is the metal industry, but in practice, it's coming at us with an approach that's being transferred to business transport by considering the properties of those trade unions and the distribution of confederations. So, dear friends, this looks like this: in the previous arrangement of the food industry, there was a trade union in the sugar business, so it's all about sugar, because it's all about food, because it's about food, because it's about chocolate production, and another factory that produces sugar is divided into the food industry, and another factory called sugarworks. Now, some of these things we see as an important step in editing. The fundamental point of dissolution here is that we now demand that a scientific, international norm-appropriate arrangement be carried out here, not by the balance of the unions. Second important issue: Mr. Secretary has just stated that there are 11 million employees, insured and said 930,000 of them are unionists. Again, he explained that there were 587,000 union workers from this bench, who had previously been in the process of a total collective contract. Now, what's the difference? If you say "what's the difference?" there are 930,000 union members on paper, written, but can't benefit from the collective contract arrangement. Now, again, there's 11 million -- there's a digital number that the Minister just explained -- that's insured, but there's 2 million people in it, which, you know, it doesn't actually work -- there's actually children in it, and there's actually no connection to it except insurance. They have no right to be unionists, they have apprentices in them, but when they're included in the business sector statistics, they're included in those statistics, and so the business arm statistics are growing. Even though he doesn't work in that line of work, even though he doesn't do any actual work in that line of work, just because he's insured, just because he looks insured, they're putting forward an approach here, as if they're going to have the right to unionize. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let's do it really internationally. We'll do it once, I say we do it right. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit02spe0136par0473	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-10-03sit03spe0136par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of Turkey's Third Union of the Grand National Assembly. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and put to your votes: The following proposals were approved by the General Assembly at a meeting Wednesday (03/10/2012). Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peace and Democracy Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. The General Assembly was recommended to meet on Thursday (October 4, 2012) at 10:00 p.m. Members of the Council, I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted by the Alliance. Our working time is almost complete. Therefore, I am closing the merger Thursday (October 4th 2012) to discuss other tasks from the commissions with the bill and proposals to meet at 10:00 p.m. according to the decision taken.
