tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 24th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. We're going on the agenda. According to our agenda, we will begin negotiations with 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2019 Central Management Computing Law Proposal. Before we begin, I pray to God for the good results of our 2021 budget talks for our nation and our state. Commission? He's in position. Congressmans, Commission Reports 230 and 231 rows have been suppressed and distributed. Now, I promise Mr. Fuat Oktay to make a budget presentation for the administration. Here you are, Mr. Oktay.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0002par0017	Mr. President, on behalf of our most valued lawmakers, on the basis of the central management budget talks of 2021, I express my great pleasure to be with you on the General Assembly of our Veteran Assembly, and on behalf of our President and myself, I salute you all. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] After our budget presentation on October 21st, talks were completed in the Plan and Budget Commission on October 27th and November 27th 2020 and on the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2019 Central Management Computational Law Proposal. The 2021-Year Centre Management Budget Law Proposal, Plan and Budget Commission finalised its final form at the end of the 20-day merger. I would like to thank the current and former presidents of our Plan and Budget Commission, members of our valued deputies, and our esteemed ministers, the valued representatives of our public institutions, the employees, and all the contributions they've made. As of today, we have begun negotiations on our budget's Parliamentary General Assembly. Our budget talks at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- the aim of national will -- are the basis for democratic control of the executive body. Our budget proposal, a road map of actions by the Presidential Cabinet, has been prepared for our most effective vision of delivering public services to our nation. This budget, which we offer to our Supreme Assembly, is the third budget of the presidential government system, bearing the benefits of the system's flexibility and dynamics. Our budget, including education, health, justice and security, is the basis of our concrete and medium-term goals, which will increase our achievements in all areas, from energy to agriculture, without transportation to industry, under the leadership of our President. The basic mission of the 2021 budget is to ensure that Turkey's economy progresses in solid and predictable steps in the global restructuring process due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The goal of our budget in this framework is that our new country normally takes its rightful place on a global scale. Mr. President, good lawmakers, progress in Turkey's development columns is the result of our love for Turkey, great zeal and hard work. With government programmes, development plans, topic-based strategy documents and action plans, including our president's prime minister's prime minister's prime minister's prime minister's prime minister's term, each step has been carefully studied and implemented, along with his transition to the presidential government system and plans for a hundred and eighty days of progress. Our vision of the future, such as 2023, 2053 and 2071, has been stitched up, touching citizens both in the centre and in the local area and implementing public services, huge artifacts and sustainable policies that advance Turkey. Our budget for 2021 will take our progress further, and will be the basis of our new success stories in line with the expectations, demands, and dreams of each of our citizens. As in our budgets in the past, this budget is the budget of our workers, our business people, our farmers, and all our entrepreneurs who have been producing value by the sweat of our laborers, the economy; our health workers who have sacrificed their homes away from their homes, their families, our teachers who have turned their homes into a classroom, our security forces, who are seeking the help of our elders; we are sufficient for the shocks of economic uncertainty; we are able to say, "We are enough." The 2021 budget is the budget of Turkey, which has dried terror at its source, and has established peace and security in each corner; the national budget of Turkey, which has completed its 4th National Antarctic Science Expedition in 30 days, which has contributed most strongly to Karabağ's freedom in forty-four days with defence industry products developed by national means. The 2021 budget is the budget of Turkey, which leaps in public service with its e-state - digital Turkey - and carries the bar into space with Turkish satellite projects. Our budget aims for more prosperous tomorrows for our women, the most important wealth of our country, and for our students. In the conditions of the epidemic, there is no such thing as a public, private sector and university, which can produce respirators in 15 days, in a state of need, and can extend a helping hand to the world as well as to the East Mediterranean, Syria, Libya, there is no such thing as a struggle for rights in Libya, we always say, if it's impossible, it only takes time. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] With this budget, we will make possible impossible breakthroughs, make hard investments easier with unity and the spirit of barberism. With our 2021 budget, we will try to increase, improve and improve our country in the light of our goals. Our budget will be based on Turkey's success stories and its triumphal battles, such as 18 budgets in the period of EC PARTY governments. In our next year's work, we're going to go up in gear again, and we're going to sign up with our nation, side by side, and we're going to do it again. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have a central management budget for 2021, which we have prepared under the performance-based programme budget system, a structure that allows the needs and expectations of society to be more accurate in the budget, linking public resources with public services, and strengthening public financial management. With the performance-based programme being transferred into the budget, the budget has increased more than the inputs and has been prepared, implemented, monitored and evaluated with a result-oriented approach, and the budget has also been made simpler and more understandable. Our budget is a functional budget to support our fight against the Covid-19 epidemic, which aims to boost both investment and employment and reduce inflation and current deficits, in line with the New Economy Programme goals. My speech on the whole budget, developments in the world economy, developments in Turkey's economy, achievements in public finances, economic measures for the Covid-19 epidemic, revenue policies and practices, budget development and predictions, the final management account of 2019, the central management budget of 2020, the central management budget of 2021. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we're going through a difficult process where uncertainty is at a high level due to the pandemic of coronavirus, which has affected the entire world. The epidemic affects societies deeply in many ways, while the global economy has the most serious economic shock in recent history. In this process, both production and consumption have fallen at the same time, millions of people in the world have been unemployed, and despite all measures, the destruction continues. According to the International Fund's October global economic outlook report, the world economy is expected to shrink by 4.4 per cent this year. This is the deepest recession in the world's economy since the 2009 global crisis. We have drawn up our budget in this difficult environment where the Covid-19 epidemic has a global impact on economic and social life and risks and uncertainty. In 2019, trade wars between the United States and China slowed down global demand and confidence, global growth and trade volumes in the eurozone, widespread poor performances in the eurozone, uncertainties about Brexit, reduced investments in China by tight credit policies, and financial normalisation in developed countries, especially the United States. In 2020, historical setbacks were recorded on both production and demand on a global scale as a result of measures and restrictions against the outbreak of Covid-19 -- which was already being introduced in a slowdown global economy -- this year. In the second quarter of 2020, the effects of the epidemic have seen significant reductions in economies, massive job losses. In this period, industrial production and trade volumes have declined sharply, and retail sales have seen declines. The rapid spread of the epidemic has left devastating effects on health systems in many countries, including the United States, Italy, Spain, Britain, and has caused serious damage in the economic areas, particularly in the service sector. In particular, tourism and transport sectors have suffered severe impacts in the process. The country's currency has lost its value while capital currents have broken down against developing countries in the process. According to the International Fund's October report, economic recession in developed economies is expected to be 5.8 per cent this year and 3.9 per cent growth in economic recovery in 2021. In 2019, developing economies, growing by 3.7 per cent, are expected to shrink by 3.3 per cent in 2020 due to the epidemic. The growth of the country's group is thought to be back to 6 per cent in 2021. Despite some recovery of global economic activity from May 2020 due to measures and financial support packages brought into existence to support those affected by the plague, the countries' normalisation steps have maintained low-profile risks. It is estimated that global growth will occur by 5.2 per cent in 2021, along with the overall recovery and base of the country's expanding monetary and financial policies, economic activity, as well as the current inoculation. Mr. President, in 2019, the unemployment rate was 5.4 per cent at a global level. While measures packaged by governments have been implemented to limit the negative effects of the epidemic on employment, significant increases in unemployment rates have been observed on the global scale. The loss of employment has been felt especially intensively in the service sector. Weak global activity can lead to permanent damage to supply capacities, productive capital loss, and a long-term increase in natural unemployment. In 2019, average annual inflation in developed economies at 1.4 per cent is estimated to take place at 0.8 per cent in 2020. The inflation rate of developing economies at 5.1 per cent in 2019 is estimated to be 5 per cent in 2020. Although the price of oil started at 70 dollars per barrel in 2020, Brent was placed on a $40-50 tape after falling to a very low level. In the coming period, oil prices are expected to remain at these levels for a period of time. Due to the epidemic, the low movement in tax revenues has again increased pressure on public finance, mainly due to health expenditures and large financial support packages. The stockpile of debt, which tends to increase worldwide, has also begun to threaten the sustainability of public finances. At this point, in the coming period, the path of the epidemic is clearly unpredictable when the revenues of services, especially tourism revenues, will recover, the break of supply chains, fluctuations in the price of commodity and geopolitical tensions are the main sources of the global economy. However, the approach to the end of vaccine and treatment studies and the extension of enlargemental fiscal measures to 2021 are thought to be factors that could reduce risks at a global level. Mr. President, after the balancing process, the Turkish economy continued its trend of uninterrupted annual growth after the global crisis, growing by 0.9 per cent throughout the year, due to a strong growth performance of 6.4 per cent in the last quarter of 2019. In the first quarter of 2020, there was a positive 4.5 per cent growth in many countries, but in the second quarter of the year, Turkey's economy was narrowed down by 9.9 per cent due to the narrowing of economic activity by measures to prevent consumer behavior and the spread of the epidemic, as a result of a recession in foreign demand, due to net goods and service exports. As of June, with the number of cases dropping, the restrictions imposed under the epidemic have been eased, and the economy has entered a rapid recovery process as of the third quarter. Unsubstantiated from season and calendar effects, the illegal domestic product has confirmed strong recovery by 15.6 per cent in the third quarter of the year, increasing by 15.6 per cent compared to the second quarter. In the third quarter, Turkey's economy has achieved 6.7 per cent growth in support of domestic demand for improved financial conditions. Despite the re-enactment epidemic restrictions, we predict a positive growth of 2020 years. Preliminary indicators for October and November also confirm our expectations. In 2021, we aim for growth to show a balanced view of domestic and international demand and to grow our economy by 5.8%. We set up this growth process in a way that does not contradict our efforts to maintain macroeconomic stability and combat inflation, and we will carefully follow every step of the process. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, with a 5.8 per cent growth targeted in 2021, we also predict rapid recovery in economic activity and as a result of improvement in employment and employment rates. As a result of strengthening the economic security environment for employment, employment incentives will continue to be effectively implemented, along with the implementation of delayed investments and increased production. At the same time, we will be taking structural steps towards the labour market, such as extracting skill inventory, boosting business-work integration, updating vocational education programmes based on skill, accelerating integration into digitalisation, effective career counselling and targeted implementation of active labour force programmes. According to 2021, employment is expected to increase to 1.58,000 people and reduce unemployment to 12.9 per cent. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers were reduced to 11.8 per cent in 2019, when positive navigation, moderate demand requirements for food prices, improved inflation expectations and cost pressures were eliminated, and the TÜFE annual increase rate lost momentum. In 2020, the relative high course of motions and food prices at the annual rate of acceleration was eliminated and annual consumer inflation took place at 14 per cent -- yearly -- in November. It is one of our main goals that inflation has been permanently reduced to low and single-digit levels, both as a result of broad-accessed consultations with different parts of society recently, as well as the implementation of policies envisioned in the New Economic Programme. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as I mentioned in the global development section, the Covid-19 epidemic has become a major suppressive factor in the global economy, and there have been major reductions in global trade volumes. In our largest export market, European countries, slowdown in economic activity has had a negative impact on external demand. In 2019, we predict that in 2020 we will catch YEP targets and even rise above them in the annual exports of 180.8 billion dollars. Our export target in 2021 is 184 billion dollars. We also see that Turkey's advances in design and high technology have not yet reflected in our exports at the desired level. With that consciousness, in the coming period, we will be concentrating our efforts towards increasing our exports of high-end products. Turkey will continue to be an important actor in global trade by adapting with new-generation applications to changes in global trade and supply chains in the post-19th period. As global tourism comes to a standstill, we predict that our annual travel revenues over $30 billion in pre-infected travel revenues will occur at $10 billion in a sharp drop in 2020. In 2021, with the impact of the epidemic eased, we estimate that travel revenues will increase as a result of the recovery of tourism. As Covid-19 gradually decreases the destruction of the global economy, increasing capital trends in developing countries, reducing risk premiums and optimizing the environment for quality capital inputs will be the key determinant of external financing. The current accountability deficit is expected to take place at 1.9 per cent in 2021. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have minimized the negative effects of the epidemic in our country, allowing our banking sector to continue to work in a healthy manner, in order to ensure that the outbreak of global financial markets is less likely to be avoided in our country. As a matter of fact, the printed indicators confirm the integrity of our banks. As of September 2020, the Turkish banking sector's average capital efficiency rate was 19.4 per cent and the core capital efficiency rate was quite high with 14.8 per cent. At the same time, the sector's indicators, such as liquidity, foreign money position and leverage, are at high levels, much higher than the minimums envisioned by international standards. As of September 2020, our banks' self-source profit was 12.3 per cent and their active profitability was 1.2 per cent. The proportions point to the strong financial structure of the sector. During the year 2020, the banks, along with the banks, were again taken the necessary measures to access the funding resources of our real sectors, and the banks were allowed to keep their credit channels open. This approach led by our public banks to prevent the spin of the economy's wheels and the rise in unemployment during the epidemic. Using loan markets to support the real sector is not unique to our country. Due to extraordinary conditions, many developing and developing countries have implemented measures such as the flexibility of the arrangement to use loans for the protection of commercial institutions and consumers or loan support packages. Mr. President, I'd like to point out that the loan expansion, led by public banks at the time of the outbreak, is vital to the continued activities of our firms and the continued employment of these institutions. In the pandemic process, our public capital banks, of course, performed their function for the reasons of existence -- in these difficult days, they were on the side of our farmers, our farmers, our SMEs, and our investors, for short, the real sector, but they never deviated from basic banking practices and principles. The most concrete proof of this is that our public-owned banks have a strong compliance with the generally accepted banking standards, especially capital competency. You know, the minimum capital efficiency rasio requested by the BDDK is 12 per cent. Our three major public banks, as of September 2020, have capital competency rates that range from 15 per cent to 18 per cent. Another important indicator is that loans turn into chasers, while the banking sector average is 4.1 per cent, and our three public banks vary between 2.10 per cent and 3.73 per cent. When we look at the rate of loans that turn into chases in other countries, we see that Turkey is far above them. For example, 6.1 per cent in Italy; 9.2 per cent in India; 9.3 per cent in Russia; 31.3 per cent in Greece. In addition, in this process, our public banks have shown strong support for the real sector, as well as their profitability rates. These data show that our public capital banks have performed their basic functions by standing next to the nation during these difficult days, but have never been broken from the basic principles of banking. Of course, in the process, the Turkish Entity Fund, which is a capital public institution, and the Treasury and Finance Ministry, have stood behind public banks and offered the necessary support within the territory of ownership. This is a natural and desirable situation, which should be valued as a manifestation of the rational stance in our view of the banking system. For years, private capital banks in our country have been subject to such practices, regulations and standards as well as public capital banks. Our public banks, regardless of their capital, are also subject to any regulation and control of the BDDK, which follows the international practices, are also under the supervision of the Court. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in this part of my speech, I'd like to talk about what we've achieved so far for public finance. Thanks to our firm fiscal discipline and discreet policies during the time of our governments, the budget deficit and public debt stock are no longer a risk. In 2002, the GDP of the central management budget deficit at 11.5 per cent was reduced to 2.9 per cent in 2019. It appears to be low compared to many developed and developing countries. Similarly, in 2002, the GDP of EU-defined general management debt at 71.5 per cent was 39.4 per cent in 2020 as of the second quarter. This ratio is also relatively low compared to EU member states. According to recent data, in EU member states, the GDP is 87.8%. At the same time, over the past 18 years, the stockpile of debt has been significantly reduced to the risk of currency, interest and liquidity. In this scope, the five-point increase at the TL interest level has improved by 0.5; 1.5 and 0.5 points, respectively, compared to 2020, due to the lack of debt in domestic product scenarios in which TL is losing 5 per cent of value and 2 points in GDP growth. One of the most important achievements in public finance is the public-private cooperation model (KOI). With this model, we have reduced the burden of large-scale and signing projects, including infrastructure investments such as highways, bridges, tunnels, airports, and increased investment needs in health care presentations, such as city hospitals, once again understood during the epidemic. About 10 per cent of public investments completed during the EC PARTY administrations have been implemented by the KME model. The facilities built with these investments will be transferred to the public at the end of the contract period, even bringing in revenues by the age of the right to run again. Besides, if these investments are preferred at the end of the contract, our government will be able to run them. We're doing a lot of major investments at the same time, no more pushing our budget, no more public debt burdens, and in less time compared to their counterparts. For example, the new Berlin Airport was only completed in 14 years, even though it was one-third the size of Istanbul Airport, which was completed in a record period of three and a half years. Istanbul Airport's investment amount is 10 billion euros. This investment was built by the company in charge, and its first phase was launched. The project did not receive a guarantee payment in 2019; rather, it was paid for and paid for the state air squares. The total amount of rent we're going to collect during business time is 22 billion euros. In 2020, international and national aircraft travel, as in all over the world, will be reduced, and the average annual rent costs will be much lower than guarantees or compensations. This is unique to the epidemic period, with air traffic returning to normal, and the State Air Squares Administration will not pay guarantees, but will continue to receive a share of the money, as well as the rent. In short, at Istanbul Airport, without any payment from our treasury, except for the time of the plague, our state will have a airport worth 10 billion euros and will have collected 22 billion euros in revenues. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Also, we've acquired 17856 qualified bed beds, which are one-quarter of our total bed capacity, with 13 city hospitals that we've completed in a short period of three years. We also acquired the Eurasia Tunnel, which has 12 international awards, including the Project of the Year, Best Project Funding, Best Environmental and Social Applications, Best Innovative Project and Global Success, to our country in four years. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] All public-private co-operation projects will be handed over to our government at the end of the contract period, with renovation investments invested in infrastructure and exponential structure. With the KCI model, classical financing, we bequeath to our future generations by making the greatest works available to our nation in 15 to 20 years, four to five years short of ready to serve. We give our country the capacity to fight disasters like the Covid epidemic that happens once a century, and we inherit airports, bridges, tunnels, hospitals, in world standards that will save time and cost for years. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers have been the lifeblood of our economy in the uncertain climate of the Covid-19 epidemic, which we have achieved so far in public finance through cautious financial policies carried out by the EC PARTI governments. In this framework, we took action in the early days of the outbreak, creating and implementing the package of the Economic Stabilisation Shield. We supported our businesses by postponing tax and social security bonus obligations. In this case, we've postponed the $29.4 billion tax payment and the $40 billion social security premium. We also provided a tax reduction of $15 billion. So, when the spending of the Covid-19 epidemic was included in the cost of financing, including delayed revenues and discounts, we saved a total of 59 billion dollars from the budget. As part of the Social Support Programme, we paid $6.3 billion, $21.8 billion, $5.1 billion in cash, and $4.2 billion as part of the unemployment fee. In addition to spending from the budget, we have increased the limit of the Credit Guarantee Fund and provided access to financing for businesses that are short of collateral. We've created 326.5 billion-dollar credit packets for citizens, tradesmen and firms, and we've paid a total of $267.8 billion in loans as of November 2020. In order to minimize the effects of the epidemic on employment, in terms of working and social life, during Covid-19, we have imposed a contract annulment ban on employees. In this scope, we have provided cash allowance for those who are not eligible for short work grants and unemployment benefits and who have been granted a free leave of absence. On the other hand, as part of the Business Shield Package, we've brought the fast-tracking, employment incentive and plus employment incentive to support economic recovery after the Covid-19 outbreak. In order to support the tourism sector from the most affected sectors of the epidemic, we have implemented credit programmes for tourism businesses, administrative fines for cancellations, delaying rent payments, and the Safe Tourism Certificate Programme. As of November 2020, steps to support the economy under the outbreak of Covid-19 reached $562 billion, 562 billion! Mr. President, I'd like to brief you again on income policies and practices in this part of my speech. We are building our revenue policies to support sustainable growth in terms of our economy's goals and priorities, to finance public spending in a stable and healthy way, to ensure income justice, to contribute to domestic savings and to support price stability. Law number 7256, which was legalized last month, has been allowed to restructure tax and social security premium debts. It is important for our taxpayers to use this opportunity to restructure their debt and pay for the structured sums on time. In addition, if some domestic and foreign assets -- money, gold, foreign currency, mortgages and other capital markets -- are not moved into the national economy until June 30, 2021 -- will not be taxed and taxed. We expect citizens to bring their assets into the country's economy. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we will continue to fight off the off-the-book economy and continue to promote the use of information communication technologies in the fight against tax loss and fugitives. Again, with the off-the-book economy, we will review the regulations for taxing revenues by using electronics and social media. We're going to review the tax returns and simplify them according to the opinion of the taxpayers and the professions in order to increase the voluntary fitness and ease of doing business. We're also improving their efforts to increase tax awareness, to improve voluntary harmony through effective information on the rights and obligations of taxpayers and tax practices. Mr. President, in this part of my speech again, I would like to share with you some of the sizes of the Central Administration's Final Account Law Proposal in 2019: in 2019, budget costs were 1 trillion 27 million, budget revenues 870 billion 280 million, budget deficit deficits of 124 billion, 747 million, non-interest deficits of 24 billion, 808 million dollars. In 2019, the budget costs in 2019 increased by 0.8 per cent, especially according to the initial budget forecast, according to the estimate of the end of the year, based on the forecast of the year. However, our revenues increased by 0.6 per cent, according to the initial budget forecast, by 0.9 per cent, according to the forecast for the end of the year. The central management budget deficit, which was 124.7 billion dollars in 2019, is below $44.1 billion in the initial deficit and below the estimated year-end forecast. Reports of the year 2019 of the Court's Presidency presented to our Parliament have been evaluated in our Plan and Budget Commission. In the framework of accountability and fiscal transparency principles that our government cares about, our institutions are meticulously involved with the issues identified in the reports. Mr. President, our expectation of year-end budget improvements in 2020 is this: in 2020, we estimate that the central management budget costs will be 1 trillion 212.3 billion, the central management budget revenues will be 973 billion 129 million, the budget deficit will be 239 billion, 168 million, the non-interest deficit will be 101 billion, 768 million dollars. At the end of the year 2020, we estimate the budget deficit will be worth over $100.3 billion, with $239.2 billion. We estimate that this deficit is going to be 4.9 percent. If we look at the details of budget costs in 2020, we estimate that the costs of personnel will be $291 billion, social security agencies will be 48.5 billion, the revenues of goods and services will be 105.7 billion, the current transfers will be 500.2 billion, the capital costs of 86.7 billion, the capital transfers will be $10.9 billion, the interest costs of $39 billion, the interest costs of $137.4 billion. In 2020, we expect tax revenues to be around $790.7 billion and non-tax revenues will be around 182.4 billion. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in this part of my speech, I'd like to give you some information about the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021. In our budget budget for 2021, budget costs are 1 trillion 346.1 billion, except for interest costs 1 trillion 166.6 billion, budget revenues 1 trillion 101.1 billion, tax revenues 922.7 billion, budget deficit is estimated at $245 billion. According to the economic rating of the budgets of 2021, the distribution of the budget costs is 326.6 billion, state premium costs of 54.5 billion, property and service costs 89.1 billion, current transfers are 536 billion, capital expenditures are 103.7 billion, capital transfers are 8.8 billion, subsidies are 9.9 billion, interest costs are $179.5 billion. According to the estimate of 2020 years of central management budget revenues in 2021, it is estimated that 1 trillion 101.1 billion dollars will increase by 16.7 per cent of tax revenues to 922 billion $744m and non-tax revenues will reach 178,402 million. Mr. President, the primary goal of the budget of 2021 is to protect and improve the gains achieved within the framework of economic stabilisation, the permanent facility of production and efficient sustainable growth and fair sharing and the negative impact of the Covid-19 epidemic on the economy. The budget for 2021 will be a service budget, as it was in the previous years. Our resources in the budget will largely be used to provide services that our citizens need. Mr. President, good lawmakers, health is the head of the areas where we make the biggest investments. In 2021, we earmarked $78 billion for the Ministry of Health and its subsidiaries, $5.1 billion for the institutes of higher education, health and research centers. Health ministry and higher education institutions reach $238 billion in health care, given their return capital and health expenses from the Social Security Agency. Thus, in 2002, we predict to increase the budget of health expenditures of 11.3 per cent to 17.7 per cent in 2021. So far, we've been getting the results of our investments in health care in the time of the epidemic. While the health systems of the world's most economically powerful countries fail in this process, we are making a successful test because of our health infrastructure and also our human resources in health. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In an environment where people are left to die in their homes in many countries and the United States, including some EU member states and the United States, people are being treated only for lack of social security system, thousands of dollars in bills, while we in Turkey offer the best quality health care, and we continue to offer it free of charge. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] When we look back on the past, we still remember how our citizens suffered for days, weeks in hospital queues, that our needy citizens could not get health care even in emergency rooms, as if it were yesterday, as if today. If our people could get to the doctor, they couldn't get to the medicine, they couldn't get the right treatment. Today, the AK PARTI is bringing our citizens from abroad to Turkey for treatment by aircraft; at the right time, more than 150 countries and 11 international organisations are providing medical supplies and equipment support, and it's coming up, we're fighting the epidemic without creating our domestic respirator and harming even one of our citizens. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Since March, we've added 12,350 to the bed capacity in our hospitals, including 3,427. We've opened two emergency hospitals on the Anatolian and European coast of Istanbul very quickly, at a record level. We've planned these hospitals to serve as well after the outbreak. The epidemic process showed once again how important access to health care is. The recent implementation of city hospitals has contributed greatly to the fight against the epidemic. In addition, we have implemented additional measures, such as the search of our citizens with the call system, Covid-19 positive, and the tracking of patients by mobile paramedics in their homes. We've spread the diagnostic labs, we've worked meticulously to track contact, to get the drugs to our citizens, and to supply them with protective substances. We've encouraged domestic production of the drugs used in the Covid-19 treatment, and we've come to the stage of human practice in local vaccine studies. By April 2021, hopefully we'll have our domestic vaccine ready. Besides, with the deals we've made, in the coming days, our healthcare workers will start their inoculation studies, a priority. So we'll be among the first countries to start vaccine studies early in the day. The vaccine will increase our fighting power, but in the process, we will continue to carefully comply with measures that we call masks, distances and cleansing. I wish for immediate healing from here to all of our patients who have already been treated once again. For those who have lost their lives, I wish you God's mercy and my condolences to your relatives. Another important issue on our health-related agenda is the prevention of violence in health. The violence of our dedicated health workers has hurt all of us. In the past April, we had established an important legal arrangement against violence in health with the consensus of all parties in our great Parliament. Violence against health workers, each of which is precious to each other, is absolutely unacceptable. We will continue to take the necessary additional measures in the coming period. On this occasion, I would like to express my gratitude to all of our employees, including our medical staff, who have worked the night and day during the outbreak, and to all who have done the work, on behalf of myself and my people. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, we continue our work at the point where education services, one of the most basic public services, are widespread and accessible. We spend $211.4 billion on education in 2021. Thus, in 2002, we increase the budget of 9.4% of the education to 15.7 per cent. During the time of our governments, education has had significant improvements to increase human and physical capacity. In other words, we did the appointment of 629,000 teachers during our administrations. With appointments, significant improvements have been made in the number of students per teacher. The number of students per teacher in the 2002-03 school year dropped from 28 to 18 in primary school, to 16 in the 2019-2020 teaching year, respectively. We've also improved the physical capacity of education through the resources we've devoted to education. In the 2002-03 school year, the number of students per class dropped from 36 to 30 in elementary school, to 24 in the 2019-2020 teaching year respectively; there are even more serious ways to take. The free textbook application began at elementary schools in 2003-2004 and was expanded in 2006-2007 to include secondary education institutions. From the beginning of the application, 3.2 billion textbooks were distributed and $6.9 billion were spent. In 2002, there were 76 universities in our country, while the number rose to 203. According to 2002, the number of university students increased by more than 5 stories and increased by 8 million, while the number of employment professors increased from 70,000 to 176,000. With the growing number of colleges and students, we're constantly increasing the resources we've devoted to our universities. In 2002, we raise the budgets of higher education institutions, which are 2.6 per cent of the budget, 14.6 times higher, to 45.4 billion dollars in 2021, 3.4 per cent of the budget. Thanks to the infrastructure that we have, we did not disrupt our education and teaching at higher education through the EBA, through the first and secondary schools, through the infrastructure of universities. In 2012, we removed the tuition from the first education and open school, and we cover the tuition from the students within our budget. In 2021, we earmarked $763 million to pay the tuition of some 2.3 million of our students. Mr. President, our esteemed deputies know the value of our fertile lands and our veteran farmers, and we're doing first with our agriculture and forest policies. In 2021, we're raising a total of $42.4 billion from our budget to agriculture. In this scope, we're saving $22 billion for agricultural support programmes, $12.1 billion for agricultural sector investment funds, agricultural loan subsidies, acquisitions, agricultural KİT and export supports. In the last 18 years, agricultural support has increased by 12 times. The amount of agricultural support, which was $1.8 billion in 2002, was raised to $22 billion in 2020. In 2002, bonus support is given to 5 products, while 18 products are given to 18 products today. Our agriculture, forest and fishing sector has grown by 2.8 per cent in the last 14 years, with the right and rational policies applied, leaving behind many leading European countries today. The sector completed 2018 years by 2.1 per cent and 2019 by 3.7 per cent by the quick decision-making mechanism provided by the presidential government system. Our agriculture, forest and fishing sector grew by 5.3 per cent during the first nine months of 2020. According to World Bank agricultural product data, our country was ranked fourth in Europe with $24.5 billion in 2002, behind Italy, France and Spain, with 48.5 billion in 2019. In addition, we are among the top 10 countries in the world. Based on external trade data on agricultural products, our country is a net exporter in agriculture. In 2019, 1.827 agricultural products were exported to 193 countries. In the first nine months of 2020, after the outbreak of Covid-19, 13.3 billion dollars in exports of agriculture and food products were given $3.6 billion in foreign trade surplus. Mr. President, important lawmakers have been implemented in the area of transport and communication; the creation of transport and communication infrastructure; the prioritization of transport investments with the corridor approach; strengthening international connections; boosting railway loads and passenger transport; supporting high-moded and balanced transport; ensuring Turkey's cyber security against international threats; providing fiber communication infrastructure and broadband communication communication across the country. In 18 years, we've built a total of 1,581km of highways, so we've reached 3.325km of highway networks. With only six provinces connected to our 6,101km-long network of roads, which were divided from 2003 until October 2020, our divided road network reached 27,714 km and connected our 77 provinces. A total of 18 billion and 501 million dollars a year, including a savings of $6 billion,905 million in fuel, 11 billion, 596 million in labor power, thanks to divided roads. As of 2003, our railway line length of 10,959km was increased to 5,803km, a total distance of 12,803km, 2,505km, 6,526km, 2.082km of electric line lengths increased to 5.753km as of October 2020. Along with these, the number of passengers carried through iron in 2003 rose from 77 million to 246 million in 2019 and from 16 million tons to 33.5 million tons in the end of 2019. In 2003, the number of international ports was 152, while in 2020 the number increased to 180. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we've had successes over the last 18 years that have exceeded everything that's been done in the entire history of the republic, as a key element of development. By collecting 33,000 square kilometers of seismic data in the Eastern Mediterranean and 33,000 square miles of seismic data, we completed nine deep sea drilling ships with Fatih and Yavuz drilling ships. We have made the largest discovery of natural gas in our history in the Sakarya basin of the Black Sea, 175km outside of Eregli. We discovered a 405 billion cubic metres of natural gas by drilling in the Danube-1 well launched on July 20th. Our legal drilling vessel, which was delivered on January 31, 2020 and left Mersin Taşsü Harbor, will begin its operation in the Black Sea in the early months of 2021. As part of these studies, we will open about 40 wells in the Black Sea's Sakaryan basin, and in 2023 we will present this gas to the use of our citizens. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, about 46 per cent of electricity produced in the first nine months of 2020 was provided from renewable energy sources, 34 per cent from coal, 19 per cent from natural gas, and the rest from other sources, and the share of domestic and renewable resources was 61 per cent. In 2021, Turkey's power of electricity power was intended to reach about 100,000 megawatts. In the 2000s, only five of our cities used natural gas, but from 2018, all of our 81 provinces, 559 districts, and 165 organised industrial areas were supplied with natural gas. The number of natural gas subscribers -- 1.3 million in the 2000s -- has increased to 17 million in gas subscriptions, while 80 per cent of our country's population has been offered natural gas use, while the population has been actively benefiting from natural gas has increased to 55 million. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we're saving $50.6 billion from our budget for real-estate support. In order to support production and employment in particular, in 2021, we allocate $27.7 billion for employer's premium support, $5.5 billion for loans on treasury bail, $5.5 billion for agricultural loans provided through the Agriculture Bank, $5.5 billion for interest support of interest, and $3.8 billion for loans provided through the Public Bank. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we've launched the Technology Focused Industrial Movement Program, which is a state-of-the-art support mechanism for the production of high-tech products in our country. At the first stage, we published support decisions for projects in the machine industry. So with about $2 billion in investments, we allow for domestic production of high-tech products such as servo engines, CNC countertops, adding manufacturing machines. The construction of Turkey's Automobile Factory, which was launched on July 18th, is planned to be completed in 18 months and to be removed from the production band in the last quarter of 2022. A environmentally sensitive mobile ecosystem will be implemented along with the TOGG, thus contributing to the transformation of the automotive sector. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, in the defence industry, we take special interest in not taking any product from outside, especially in critical products and materials, reaching its goal of nationalism, 100 per cent. The opening of the delivery and design centre of our tourism engine, designed and built by Turkish engineers, is the defence industry, and it is the harbinger of a new phase in high-tech. With our Turbofaft project, we're building a test infrastructure in our country that can test the engines in this class and so on. This infrastructure can also be used to test higher power-class engines, such as the national combat aircraft engine. More than 700 projects are already under way by the Defence Industry Presidency. As a defense industry, we are now one of the world's leading countries in the production of systems such as the design and production of warships, the drones, the drones, the UAV, the TIHA, the ATAK helicopter, the FIRTINA. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Only a few of our defence industry projects, some of them: the new generation fighter TB2 tactical drone system, the TCG Anatolian attack ship -- the lower plane ship in a sense -- and now hopefully we're targeting our original aircraft ship -- BORA, KASARGA, HISAR and CORKUT systems, long-range air and missile defense systems, HURK, ANKA drone system, the naval rifle, the ALTAY tank, and the armored vehicles. The first four ships, Heybeliada, Büyükada, Burgazada, Künalıa, were also served under the Millgem Project, which was patented by the National Defence Ministry. Our achievements in the defence industry also contribute very seriously to our firm implementation of our national and international policies on the field and at the table. We see the impact of progress in our defence industry on the field both within and outside our borders in our successful fight against terrorism and in our support for the future and future of our fellow and brother countries. The last example of this is that we are at the side of Brother Azerbaijan, with all our means against the invader Armenia. (AK PARTY) Armenian, in Karabakh, the international community has become silent while slaughtering civilians without a word, women and children. Are we surprised? We're not surprised, it's what they always do. We know this silence better than Idlib, than Hama. We know this indifference of the international community better than Palestine, Yemen, and Arakan. In the face of human persecution, our President challenges seven heifers, if necessary, in the face of this silence of the world, we stand by the right and the truth for our friends, and we will continue to take it. This is what we do in Cyprus, in Libya, in Iraq, in Syria. Our support for the rescue of Karabagan from the invasion of Armenia is a need for our dignity in foreign policy as well as our brotherhood. As I congratulate Brother Azerbaijan on his victory, I strongly condemn the land of an independent state, the land of Karabakh, who tried to make the Armenian invaders succeed. We will continue to do our part as Turkey to ensure stability, peace and peace in our region, following policies in favor of human, conscience. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we've made a transition to a new era of social policy practices. By starting our Family Social Support Programme, we have moved from the idea of demanding services in social policy practices to supply-oriented service. In our budget for social spending in 2021, we've raised our resources to 81.2 billion dollars. This amount corresponds to 6 per cent of the 2021 budget; in 2002, it was 1.3 per cent, and the source we set aside was only $1.6 billion. If you count some of the important pencils in the social spending budget of 2021, 12.7 billion per month for people who have no payability, 16 billion for senior months over 65, and 4.9 billion for pensions connected to disabled and disabled relatives, 2.1 billion for social and economic support, 2.1 billion for social aid and solidarity, for student housing allowance, 10.9 billion for disability housing support, 8.6 billion for student loans, 8 billion for student loans, $5.9 billion for student scholarships and student tuition, 4.9 billion for education support for the disabled, 2.1 billion for social and economic support for students, 2.1 billion for student housing allowance, and 1. Mr. President, we have women on the front lines of our big and powerful Turkey photo. Under the leadership of our president, we are making great efforts to get our women to the level they deserve in every aspect of life. For the peace of our society and the assurance of our future, we are conducting policies to strengthen the family union. We took part in many legal and administrative arrangements that we've made so far. We've removed women's social participation and barriers to employment. We have been particularly sensitive to preventing violence against women, and we maintain that sensitivity. Whatever the reason, if a woman is a victim, we put her under the government's protection umbrella, and we're working to prevent new victims. We must all fight together against abuse, violence, or persecution that targets our women. We will continue to protect our young girls who were kidnapped by the terrorist organization, who were stolen from the mountain, and our women who were abused, and our women who were subjected to violence, with the same sensitivity. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In this direction, we increased the budget for the Women's Strengthenment Program by 19.8 per cent in 2021. We will continue by providing more resources for our work, such as Financial Reading and Women's Economic Strength Seminars, Turkey's Engineer Girls, the Mother Project at Work, the women's co-ops strengthening work and active women's labourforce supports and insurance premiums for women and incentives. We're going to strengthen our women's guesthouses and social services centers even more. Mr. President, the number of youth centers that operate to ensure that young people consider their free time efficiently and efficiently has reached 350. As of November 2020, the number of members in these centers rose to 2.3 million at the same time. Thanks to increased sports investments, the number of sports facilities reached 1,575 in 2002 increased to 3,774 in 2020. Between 2002 and 2020, 2,513 neighborhood football, basketball and volleyball courses were built; 1,365 synthetic football fields, 904 sports halls, 56 track and 174 swimming pools. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the basis of the rule of law state is judicial independence. The basic motivation of our legal reform line is an independent, neutral judicial system that works well. In the past period, our system of democraticisation has been greatly new, especially the Constitution and its fundamental laws. Innovations on social and democratic rights such as the protection of personal data, the constitutional protection of child rights, the development of union freedoms, the right to give public officials collective contracts, the right to information and individual application have been implemented on a constitutional basis. The Judicial Reform Strategy Document, a reflection of our view of reform, was announced by our President on May 30, 2019. With the help of our High Council, we have recently implemented significant amendments to the legislation within this scope. With these changes, laws on the protection and development of rights and freedoms have been adopted that strengthen access to justice in our system of executions, regulations and trials that are facing solutions. The implementation rate of the Judicial Reform Strategy Document, covering 2019-2023, has yet reached about 50 per cent in its second year. In accordance with the schedule we set, we are determined to continue our work without slowing down. We stand by our legal reform will, as we have now. We strengthen the rule of law on the basis of reforms and increase the functioning of democracy. At the same time, we are improving the investment climate and building solid legal grounds for new opportunities in economics, and we will soon bring them to the agenda of our great House. All 81 counties, each home and each of our citizens, we will continue to implement the necessary arrangements one by one in the coming period. Mr. President, we believe that our budget for 2021, as a citizen-oriented operating budget, will be based on the highest quality public service in order to improve the development of our country and the well-being of our citizens. We will not compromise fiscal discipline in the implementation of our budget in 2021. As I end my words, I wish that the Central Management Budget Law of 2021 and the Central Management Management Law of 2019 should be good for our country and our nation. Because of the perspective, leadership and support of the process, I thank Mr. President, our Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our Minister of Strategy and Budget, and all the ministries that have contributed to the creation of our budget proposal, particularly the Treasury and Finance Ministry, to all of our relevant, relevant, connected public institutions, and I salute you all once again.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0003par0152	Thank you. Members of parliament, talks on Budget and Final Account Law Proposals will be held according to the programme, which has been pushed and distributed in accordance with the decision made in the 22nd Union of 2/12/2020. In the beginning, the talks on the entire budget will be promised 60 minutes to conduct the political party groups and to express their opinion in accordance with Article 62 of the Interior Charter, which can be used by more than one speaker. Speaking on behalf of individuals, the deadline will be ten minutes. Now, I read the names of all political party groups over the entire budget, executive and individuals: Group President on behalf of the PARTI Group and Mr. İsmail Tatekoğlu and Samsun MP Mr. Erhan Usta. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Group Deputy Chairs Manisa MP Erkan Akçay and Sakarya MP Mohammed Levent Bülbül. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Co-Chairs İstanbul MP Pervin Buldan and Mardin MP Mithat Sancar. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, President-General and İzmir MP Kemal Kilicdaroğlu. (Cheers and applause from CHP) On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Group Deputy Chair and İstanbul MP Mehmet Mush and Deputy Chair and İstanbul MP Numan Surveil have been released. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] On behalf of him, Mr. Fuat Oktay, deputy President of the Grand Union Party and Ankara MP Mustafa Destici, on behalf of the execution, and finally, on behalf of him, Mardin MP Mr. Ebrü Günay will take the oath. Now, the first word on behalf of the group, on behalf of the Good PARTY Group...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0004par0159	Mr. President, I have a request.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0003par0160	Mr. Erkan, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0004par0163	Mr. President, I have a petition for your president regarding the matter, and I don't think you've processed it. It's about...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0003par0164	I've seen the petition for your request, but this is the program, as per the recommendation of the Council of Counsellors, the proposal of the party groups and the decision made by the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0004par0165	Mr. President, have you processed my petition and rejected it or not?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0003par0166	I've processed it, and since there's been an incontrovertible situation, I can't speak, I can't meet your request.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0004par0167	Mr. President, in this case, I'd like to open a debate on your approach, in accordance with Article 63 of the Civil Code, to invite the President to comply. I want a word against it.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0005par0168	Lehte.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0006par0169	A formal debate is an appreciation, Mr. President, and I'd like a word in favor if you'd like to open it.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0007par0170	Now, let's read 63: MADDE 63-Interview is discussed before other jobs, such as whether there is room for discussion, whether to raise the President or invite him to comply with the working procedures of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I've already read the agenda, so I'm not saying anything out of the question. If you're saying something like an invitation to comply with the working procedures of the Turkish Grand National Assembly...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0008par0174	Yes, Mr. President. I don't think it's appropriate to...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0007par0175	The method of work has already been established according to the Civil Charter, with the recommendation of the Council of Counsellors and by the General Assembly. So according to these, I don't see the opportunity to have an argument about the procedure according to 63.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0008par0176	Mr. President, you've already had the procedure discussion, but if you'd like to open the discussion and continue it there, but just to remind you, if you review the minutes of the meeting you led last year, it will be seen that you've promised to political parties represented but not grouped. So I think it's in order, we need to conduct this discussion, and if not, let the Supreme General Assembly decide that.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0007par0177	Mr. Chief, I remember last year's app. There were four political parties that didn't have a group at the time, and I said that I had done this to make it a precedent, so I don't think it's true that it's going to be a rule of conduct against the Civil Code. The number of political parties has been 7 and also 17 independent deputies in our General Assembly, our Parliament. In this regard, we do not have the means to conduct decisions made by the Council and by the Council of Ministers.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0008par0178	Mr. President, we're already having this discussion, and I think we need to have this discussion in a manner of speaking. Let's open this discussion -- we're already having this discussion, as you can see -- so after we've had this discussion, let's leave it to the General Assembly's discretion. Look, I know last year's report by heart, we had the same argument last year. By your own discretion, you made me use this right not to set a precedent for the harmony of the groups, which means it's possible to use it. This comes out, it's a right to be used. So I'd like you to reuse it, and if you refuse now, it's only natural to open a discussion of procedure.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0009par0180	Democracys are a speech regime, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0010par0181	It's in favor, if you open it.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0011par0182	Now, friends, I don't think there's any need for a formal debate.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0012par0184	We don't need to open it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0011par0187	Wait a minute, fellas, but if Mr. Chief Council wishes to make a decision on this, I'm going to open up a procedure debate and vote on it, and I'm going to settle this once and for all.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0013par0188	Lehte...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0014par0189	Lehte...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0015par0190	Against...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0016par0191	Against...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0017par0192	Wait a minute, I'll tell you this -- so your names are still -- my position is that we're going on a agenda based on a decision made by the General Assembly on the counseling board's recommendation. Apart from the political parties and individuals whose group is on the agenda, there is no ruling on the promise of political party representatives without a group, and that's my position. Those who wish to speak in favor of this attitude or against it should declare it.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0015par0193	Against...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0017par0194	Mr. Chief, this attitude is against you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0018par0195	It's in favor, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0017par0196	In favor of Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0019par0197	Against...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0017par0198	Against Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0020par0199	Lehte...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0017par0200	Mr. Turan is in favor.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0021par0201	The list should be based on the stenographer's list, Mr. President, because we made a promise before the AK PARTY Group told us.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0017par0202	Here you go, Mr. Head.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0022par0203	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly and the workers and the poor who follow us. Of course, the heart would like to discuss the content of the budget, which is the main thing, he and I, in my petition to the Speaker of Parliament, was to express my opinion. Dear friends, budgetary rights have been accepted since 1215 Magna Carta, and it says that budgetary rights are made up of laborers, the poor, the people, the workers. Thus, the public monitors, supervises, and directs how to use it, how to evaluate it, how to pass it on to whom. Now we're discussing this, and there's a party here in Turkey, during budget talks, that claims to be the party of workers, workers, poor people, and Turkey's Labour Party, which is almost 99 per cent of the budget. Mr. President says this party can't talk about the budget. Now, let's leave the law here once, the Constitution, the Civil Code and so on; can you digest it in your heart, your mind, your conscience? (HPP and HDP in rows) So there will be budget workers in this country, but the workers will not be able to speak on this bench; one. Secondly, dear friends, parliament, is where they're spoken for. In Parliament, people speak, freely, and even in society, they say a number of radical ideas, a number of shocking ideas -- more talk, more common sense -- but I found a majority in parliament; I speak what I want, I silence what I want. If you say, it means that you're in an act against the spirit of parliament, so you're in a wrong approach again. Third, look, here, I think it's a really happy development, there's a lot of political parties. Let all the colors of society be represented in Parliament, and let those represented in Parliament speak on these platforms, but now we have a list of speeches coming into our hands, for example, that one of these parties has put the president of the Justice and Development Party list in Parliament, and he can speak, but those who are in opposition can't. This is justice, this is democracy, this is freedom? Dear friends, political parties are essential elements of democratic political life according to our Constitution. For one thing, it is unconstitutional not to talk; political parties must speak here, they must be given the right to speak. I think that's what the President or the General Assembly should change their appreciation for. Let the representatives of the people who are taxing this country come out of this chair with the sweat and the sweat of their lives, and let them speak. No budget, no salt, no budget for the happy minority, no budget for the laborers, no money for the poor, and I give you all a lot of respect.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0023par0213	In favor of my attitude, Mr. Altay. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0024par0216	It's so good to have you on our side.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0025par0217	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you and the Grand General Assembly. Mr. President, Mr. Erkan Chief's request is a very reasonable, very legitimate, very legitimate request. It was a necessity to take your word for it, because Mr. Beştaş and Mr. Head had closed before me, but I would like to make that point. Politics has written and unwritten rules, and there are regulations in our parliament, and Article 60 of the Turkish Parliament's Council of National Assembly gives you an authority on the matter. There are five political parties, seven parties that don't have a group, and nine independent lawmakers. Yes, groups can of course have a difference, so there has to be an opportunity in terms of power, chair ratios, but there's no reason for our political parties in parliament to use the legislature as party leader or official, for example, on budgets and on special days, such as April 23rd. There is no need for this matter to be decided by the Council of Counsellors. According to your Council of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, according to Article 60, it is not the Parliament that makes it possible for you to commit five minutes, ten minutes in the budget of which the political parties who do not have a group in parliament, or their representatives, or their representatives, or their representatives, to whom it authorises, to make promises here, once a year; otherwise, it is the Parliament that will not make it Parliament. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'll tell you right now, this budget, we're talking about a budget that's up 36 times from 2006 to 2020 in the budget we're talking about today, and we're talking about a budget that's only four times the minimum wage. So, Mr. President, as the Republican People's Party Group, it is your most basic and primary duty to give the speakers, representatives of political parties who do not have a group according to the Civil Code 60. I salute you and the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0026par0224	Let's fix this.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0027par0225	Thank you. Against you, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş. Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0028par0229	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, yes, we are opening the budget today, and the right to the budget is essentially the people's. We're all surrogates here, in the name of the people, and we're conducting budget negotiations here on behalf of the public. Now, while defending the rights of 83 million citizens here, while expressing our views on the budget rights, the president of a political party's failure to get a single word in this matter is a blow to the work of parliament and to the right of public representation; we cannot accept this. There's no need to discuss the Civil Code here, there's a matter brewing right in front of us. What is it? We're going to talk about the budget, and we're going to discuss budget rights, public life, poverty, hunger, unemployment, where the money goes, where the taxes go, for 12 days. While we're discussing all of this here, the public wants to hear from the elected MP -- there's no need to have a group ofillas -- they want to hear their opinion here, and that MP has the responsibility and the duty to represent them. There are seven political parties, Mr. Prime Minister, the leader of a party, the leader of the Turkish Labour Party, and again the leader of the Democratic Regionals Party Salihe Aydeniz here; there are 2 Presidents, 3rd and Destici, today the ruling group promised the ruling group ten minutes. So, what is it? So let's say you're going around the Civil Charter, or you're going to comment in accordance with the Civil Code. Mr. President, our Speaker is a very good lawyer, so I don't think there's anything in the way of commenting in favor. So the fact that all seven political parties are being given reasonable time here is a very important issue for the discussion of budgetary rights above all. In addition, there is a theme: Last year, all Parliament Speakers, Parliament Speakers, spoke for ten minutes, five minutes, the apocalypse did not break, nor did we lose such a long time. So today, the presidential representative, the vice president, spoke for an hour and a half, spoke for another hour, the groups spoke for an hour. E, let each party talk for ten minutes; close an hour late. If it's in favor of public opinion here, we need to end the discussion, so we don't even need to discuss it this way. I mean, it's not a bad thing that there are so many parties in democracy. As a party for pluralism, I can safely say that every thought needs representation here, and that representation should be able to make its own words here. Therefore, I am against your attitude, and we hope you will change your attitude. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0029par0237	It's about to be in favor, Mr. Bulent Turan. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0030par0240	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, we started our 2021 budget negotiations today, and I hope our budget will be good for our country, for our nation. Also, I'd like to make another point: Today we offer our 19th budget. The longest budget presentation of our Republic history has been given by our nation, by the grace of our nation, by the will of the EC PARTY, and we are grateful to our nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As for the legal debate, Mr. President, while this discussion is an admirable right, Mr. President has been kind and has raised the issue. We're never bothered by anyone's speech, the expression of extreme expressions. We're here every day, and at times, our entire nation bears witness to how freely the most different views are expressed in an atmosphere. The issue is not whether a party should be discussed or not, but also one of the duties of the Assembly is to plan the durations of the procedure economy. In the meantime, the PARTI, representing the opposition, which is supposedly not being spoken to, will also speak with the HDP and CHP with numerous speakers.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0031par0245	Shut them up, shut them up. Everybody shut up!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0030par0246	We sat down with all the parties again last week and planned the budget negotiations.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0032par0247	Are we at your mercy?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0030par0248	While these talks were planned, the Council of Counsellors proposed a vote in parliament. So, beyond the President's discretion, the House has an agenda that is binding, and Mr. President is in charge of following that agenda, of course. So, despite the Council of Counsellors, we feel that it would not be appropriate for the rights, the economy of procedure, the legislature of Parliament to be promised, which, Mr. President, is that there has never been a crisis about speaking here, you of all people know very well. For example, if the Civil Code did not allow a party to speak because of the lack of time or for similar reasons, parties can resolve it among themselves. For example, today we gave Mr. Destici, the chairman of the Party of the Great Unity, the right to speak for himself, to speak for himself in favour of the House of the EC PARTY, which is part of its own household. In the same way, parties who claim to be in your favor can make a similar change among themselves. (EC PARTY Applause) So it's not preventing any conversation, it's simply following procedure. In the first speech of the budget today, I pay my respects to the presidents and all the MPs of political parties, who came to parliament at their first meeting to contribute to budget talks, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0033par0251	Sir, I don't think...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0034par0252	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0033par0255	Mr. Turan said that we have given our right to speak to the Party of the Great Unity, and that other parties can do it. Now, the Republican People's Party does not speak on behalf of the person today, but we have met all of the demands of political parties, both in terms of the budget talks and in terms of the final account, of our rights as the Republican People's Party, who can't form a group in Parliament, and if demand comes, we will. If demand comes, we'll get the political parties and independent lawmakers to speak, but today's request Mr. Bulent Turan didn't understand. In the first talks on the entire budget today, political parties who do not have a group have the right to speak, they want to use their rights. I personally don't think it's right for you to vote on this matter -- the groups -- but I do appreciate it, sir, but according to the Civil Code of 60, I would advise you to use that authority. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0035par0259	Thank you. Wait a minute, wait a minute... Mr. Destici...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0036par0262	Mr. President, I'd like to speak of the bench because of the bullying.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0035par0263	I promise you, not the bench, but your place.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0036par0264	One or two minutes off the stand... because my name has been mentioned twice.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0035par0265	No, that's not 69, look. Here, I'll give you my word from there.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0037par0267	I didn't say why you were given it. Besides, I didn't question why you were promised.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0038par0268	There's no bullying, Mr. President. I want a promise, too.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0035par0269	Guys... Mr. Destici, I can promise you your position according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0039par0272	They could have talked at this hour, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0035par0273	I didn't promise you guys.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0039par0274	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0035par0275	Why are you talking? Our friend's name is mentioned, and he's going to make a statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0040par0279	My dear President, dear MPs, first of all, I salute you with respect and love. I pray that our budget talks are a blessing from the Lord Almighty. Now, during the new legislature, or rather after the 2018 elections, we discussed our third budget meeting, both in 2018 and in 2019, the budgets in 2019 and 2020. I attended the advisory board meeting myself, and the group representatives of all the parties there said, "Mr. President, you don't have to wait here any longer. We've already agreed to all groups, and to all the other political parties who don't have a group, we promise some on the first day, some on the last day, some on the third day, and 5 on the fifth day.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0035par0282	Thank you, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0040par0283	No, no. Wait a second, I'll tell you this...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0035par0284	One moment, please... I'll give you a minute for 60.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0040par0286	Yeah, let me finish this for a second... In 2019 and 2020, political parties, who did not have the whole group, also spoke. And I wish that political parties with their group...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0035par0288	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0040par0289	Look, I don't agree that a political party with a political party as its leader and group, the Deputy Director of the Group should accuse me of myself.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0035par0290	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0040par0291	I am not here by anyone's grace, nor by anyone's grace, but by the power that I have taken from my people and my people, and by the power that I speak.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0035par0292	Mr. Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0041par0294	Mr. President, a quick word. Mr. Turan... what we said, how did he understand or how did he respond? For one thing, we have no problem giving speech time to other political parties who don't have a group in Congress. Here, not just in the budget, but in all the laws, as many independent friends as possible, the non-group, we're already giving them to them. That's not what we're discussing here. The House's institutional right to the Council of Parliament, political parties without a group, or we're already doing this between ourselves, as much as possible. Besides, we didn't pick on Mr. Destici, he was mentioned. If I count all the deputies I know now, they'll all come out and say my name. If he says his name, it won't be over. We didn't make an accusation, we just said it was given. We'll give it to you in the days to come. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So we're repeating to you that your Court should give this right to your presidency in a genuinely democratic manner.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0042par0300	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0043par0301	We're in favor of your attitude, Mr. President, so let's move on to the agenda.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0042par0304	Dear friends, I've listened to your opinions in favor and against them, and I'm going to evaluate them, and I'm not changing my attitude yet. I'm on schedule. The first word on behalf of the Groups now belongs to the Group Chairman and Mr. İsmail Tatüoğlu, a member of the group on behalf of the PARTI Group. Here you go, Mr. Tastyoglu. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0044par0314	Dear President, honored members of our Parliament, I salute and salute you all on behalf of the good party. Today, we welcome our party's views on the 2021-Year Centre Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2019 Central Management Law Law Proposal. As indeed in all political parties' programmes, budgets are a democratic fundamental right to decide on budgets and budgets. In this sense, the legitimacy of all political powers, the legitimacy of political systems; one, the fact that tax release depends on the permission of taxpayers, two, that tax expenditures must be audited and submitted to the knowledge of taxpayers. Unsupervised expenditures eliminate the legitimacy of governments who make that expense. They've always talked about it in the past, legitimately, with a concept. Now, in this context, that's what we're looking at as a party. In that sense, of course, budgeting is government. What does that mean? Of course, you'll get the authority to collect taxes, you'll answer to the nation for every penny of your expenses, and you'll keep your predictions, because that's what government is. When you say 10 and you get 2, you're not a government, and if you're consistent with that, you're budgeting, and you're running a government. In that sense, I'd like to make a brief mention of Mr. Oktay's words -- thank you very much -- here. First, I would like to point out, dear friends, that this budget is not the budget of the EC PARTY, and the national will in the 2018 elections did not give Turkey the authority to make a budget for the EC PARTY in Turkey. He gives the authority to budget to the majority of the Assembly, so there is a budget, such as the law passed with the majority of the Cumhur Alliance. In this sense, sequencing the AK PARTI budgets is highly wrong and contrary to the emerging national will.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0045par0318	He gives power to the President, not Parliament.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0044par0319	Yes, the President's authority is to draw up the budget and present it to Parliament; it was your government's earlier. So, who approves the budget? The House approves. Is the number of EC PARTY in parliament sufficient to approve the budget? Inadequate.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0045par0320	Maybe you can vote.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0044par0321	So it's wrong here to call these budgets AK PARTY budgets. It's not like there's an attitude in commission work, or commission formations, anyway. Why the Plan and Budget Commission 15 people? Did this nation give the EC PARTY a majority in parliament, or did it give equality and reflect it in the Plan and Budget? I want to specify this sequence here in particular; we need to reflect the national will. Secondly, of course we're going to focus on today's photo of Turkey, but Mr. Oktay, I've come up with a souvenir. In 2007, I was in Germany, and I met an engineer. An engineer who crossed the Berlin Wall on November 9, 1989, and I asked him about Germany at the time; East Germany, West Germany. He answered me, and he said: "When we were in East Germany, they always told us: "We are always twenty years ahead. Now, we're coming, we're talking about all the texts, we've been ahead of each text for a long time, we're always ahead. I, in fact, would expect you to mention 2023 targets in your speech today. How much longer do we have to spend on this $25,000, 500 billion dollars in exports? We talked about these 2023 targets for six years. Where are these targets? When we say, "It's gone to the trash," you get upset, but you can't hide it from people's knowledge. For example, what happened to the tenth Development Plan? What happened to the 11th Development Plan? It's over before it even started. WHERE are ALL YEPs, goals, and consequences? Where are the goals and consequences of your budgets, of this budget, that we're making these statements about this budget? We specifically ask that people be treated with sensitivity that they are not blind and deaf and that they should be respected. Getting the information right is an important part of doing the right politics. Now, we're doing the 98th budget of our republic and we're doing the 3rd budget of the party presidency. What does this budget want from us, from this House? It says: I will spend one trillion 346 billion dollars in 2021. I'm going to collect $922 billion in taxes for this. I'm going to have $179 billion of other incomes, and I'm going to find a $245 billion deficit, and I'm going to do those services as Treasury. Dear friends, we're looking at it now, what kind of atmosphere we're making in a budget. Let's take an economic photo of Turkey, see if it matches the photo Mr. Oktay mentioned. Yes, dear friends, today is December 7, 2020, 663 billion dollars in Turkey. Our national income per Fert is $7.921, except for refugees. Why do I say if we don't count it? Because that's what this $663 billion has. It's in this national income produced by 5 million refugees, but we don't do that in sharing. So we're actually talking about a multinational income under $7,500. Yeah, we're talking about 10 million unemployed in a broad sense. Yeah, we're talking about a $168 billion budget deficit, and we're talking 81st place in our world ranking. Yes, Mr. Oktay, when you sat in the vice president's office in July, Turkey left you a richer Turkey. A richer, $881 billion Turkey left $10,500 per unit income. Look, this is a picture of Turkey, Turkey in a poorening process. Look, we're going through the official figures of TÜİK. Turkey is a $111 billion poorer Turkey than 2008, according to 2008, and Turkey is the 65th national income per world ranking in 2008. Turkey, according to 2013, is a very valuable parliamentary friend, my dear nation -- $288 billion poorer than Turkey. This is half of Turkey's national income, half of this year's national income. What kind of poverty? It's not a momentary photograph, it's a conjonk. Since 2010, we have been talking about a Turkey that has been poor since that terrible 2010 referendum, a Turkey that has been driven into structural blockage, and Turkey that has come from a Turkey that talks about a middle income trap in 2010 to a poverty trap, a poor Turkey that has become poor; we are talking about a Turkey that parks a poor one with an important foot of structural blockage. We have $881 billion in 2018, and we're 72. Let's leave the 2020, and we can talk about 2019. Very dear friends, we've actually had these conversations in previous budgets, and when we talked about the budget for 2018 in 2019, I said, "Turkey is falling behind the EC PARTY 2007, falling behind the AK PARTY. If you go like this, you're going to fall behind 2002. Yes, we're there today, but I couldn't predict anything: even in 2002, we didn't think you'd leave the Federal Reserves - 55 billion dollars -- we didn't see that coming. And we're looking at the largest central bank reserve deficit in the history of the republic. Very dear friends, Turkey has had huge problems -- let's look at it from the time of the economy, starting in 1960 -- it has gone through them in different ways, but for the first time, both the Treasury and the Central Bank are empty. It's the first time he's been running a budget and running a business. This is not Turkey's disease. Those who work in the Turkish economy know. As Turkey grew older, it was clear that we should have solved it in the 2010s, and that's how the world solved it. The world has now solved inflation, the world has solved interest. After Zambia, we became a second-place country in the world in inflation. I'm sorry to say. We're talking about a one-base game, a closed-down media world, but you're talking about it, but that's not the truth. But from the outside, the stronger you are inside, the stronger you are out there. Now, can you say that Turkey of 2020 is stronger than Turkey of 2013? You can't. He's ours and Turkey's ours, but you can't say that. Now, even if we take the 2020s and the 2019s out of 2020. Look, in 2016-2020, five years, from 1960, look at the five-year period, when the worst growth is at its lowest. Let's say the corona period plus 3 is the second lowest growth period to growth, after 1976-1980. This performance has been coming for a long time, structural blockage. Why? Because since 2007, you have given up structural reforms, with the 2010 September 12th referendum and the next radical process, with the separation from the nation's agendas, with the process of resolving with the PKK, with the government's codes, you have gone beyond these structural reforms. And the last time we had a 150-year-old Parliamentary history, you put shackles on the Turkish nation's feet and we can't walk today. Look, this was a year when we had economic problems with the budget... and we had economic problems in 2001. Look at the 2002 budget, guys, you're going to see energy in the 2002 budget, you're going to see an exit budget. When you look at that budget, what kind of exit plan and excitement the people who made the 2002 budget are in. This is what you see in those who have drawn up the 1995 budget after the crisis in 1994. But this budget has no energy, dear friends. What does this budget tell us? This budget has no vision. This budget doesn't tell us anything. Is this the budget-fighting budget? No. The unemployment budget? No. Growth budget? No. What? What should we do with this budget? What should we do? What should we do? In any case, the energy of the political staff behind this budget is exhausted. After this budget has already been transferred... think about it, you're moving the budget in one country, and then you're talking about reform in the rear. What kind of a thing is that? You take off the horse, you start running from behind. Do you believe that such a sincere thought exists? If you're going to reform, you put it in the budget, and everybody knows it, and so does the world; it's a reform budget. It lacks a budget vision, perhaps the lowest-profile budget in history. So I sincerely say, "Come, come, let's make a mid-term budget as Parliament, a medium-term plan, and then we'll make an exit plan to Turkey and we'll go to national will in 2021, and we'll go to elections." Let's do this budget and this middle-term plan today, partner, we're in this as a good party, and let's go to our nation in 2021, let's apply to national will, let's get a new political climate that will take Turkey out. Without a new political climate, Turkey is seen to be impossible to find its way out of here. The only way out of this trap of poverty is through the change of political will. My dear friends, Mr. Oktay has said some very nice things about the SOCs. We'd like to say a few words about that within the budget. Let's just say once that I said in the beginning of public spending that if my speech can't be audited, the legitimacy of the political will that makes those expenses is questioned. All over the world, in every sane country, in a democratic country, public spending and transactions are subject to public knowledge. See, now, our Sakarya MP friend is applying to the Ministry of Energy, the question says that there is information that the price of natural gas in Europe is around $110, and there is about $250-280 in Turkey. It is forbidden for Parliament to take information on the price of natural gas for Turkey, which can lead the country into war. It's a trade secret, that's the answer. The cosmic room has been entered in this country, these contracts have not been entered. The answer is "Ticari secret." Now, how do we inspect it? There are hundreds of rumors. On November 14, 2015, they tendered the money, they deposited the money, they took credit, they went with the loans and deposits. It's $10 billion, 450 million minimum. Rumors are going from various copper sales, corporate tax exemptions to 20 to 30 billion. Well, why can't we control it, and why isn't it beyond our knowledge? What are we gonna tell people? If we don't ask, won't God ask us? We're going to be silent society? It has shown thousands of years of history that there is no way for a society that does not speak, question, or control in the world to move forward. Sir, city hospitals... look, I asked again, in this Plan Budget, I asked the Minister. He's built a Renaissance city hospital in Bursa, that's nice. And as for us in power, frankly, we're thinking of doing the University of Uludağ Medical School again, modernly, and building another hospital east of the city, but how much did you rent it for? How many? 19 of them. He just quit, Health Department, I know from the budget. How much is this leased to a person, a high school, a school, and he rents it? Don't the taxpayers have a right to know how much this is leased for? How else are we supposed to handle this? What kind of legitimacy? Where do we get that? Now, there are some very dear friends, other BCIs and contracts. Now, here's a bridge and 13 billion, 15 million, 630,000, this is the Osmangazi Bridge. I showed it to a friend who knows that number. And he said, well, if this is a new wolf, I mean, this is a good job at around $8 lira, it's a good job for about $1 billion, $650 million, but if it's the average wolf, then if it's 6,90, then there's a $300-350 million difference here. (PARTI, CHP and HDP rows) He said: "Hocam, there is no bridge without 160 tons of gold on its four poles. [[GOOD PARTY, CHP and HDP welcome]] Now, Mr. Oktay, dear friends, there is an area in Turkey that has never entered, has not entered, has not entered, has not entered; Germany, America has already failed to come by: BCIs, public tenders. It's so protected that we'd like to wish that those who run it would have run the Ministry of Justice of Turkey, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of National Education, and the foreign forces if they hadn't been there. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Now, what we're asking you to do is, look, this information I'm going to give you is wrong, but it's not from the top curtain, it's from the official documents you have. We want to know the real number. This is an account that we know of, and we asked that, Mr. Oktay, we asked you. Mr. Erhan Bey, our friend in the Plan Budget, Mr. Erhan, asked the Treasury and Finance Minister on November 17th, asked the Minister of Transport on November 19th, asked you personally on November 27th, and hasn't received an answer yet. Look, on April 7, 2008, there's a tender for Gebze-Izmir Highway. In the announced contract, 35 cents per mile/way, 35 lira bridge crossing -- possible, available friends can take notes or write them down, our nation on television can write them down -- and then 35 thousand vehicles are guaranteed; then the first zeilname goes up to 45 dollars; then the bridge goes up to $26.55; then it goes up to $35 -- and then on September 27th, 2010, the contract goes up to 40,000 vehicles guarantees -- with the production of 27 years and four months -- is guaranteed; and then the construction is divided into 45 dollars, so the bridge is divided into 26.55 dollars, then the second project goes up to $35 dollars, and then it's signed up to 40 thousand vehicles, and then it's signed up for each of them as an independent contract -- for 27 September 2010 -- seven years and four months -- nine months -- nine years, and five months -- and one of them says: Fifteen years, but that's not what the contract says. A payment begins... so the contract, which normally ends in 2021, will end in 2020, and will be paid for fifteen years, and the payment will end in 2035. So, did the bridge end in 2016, from 2016 to 2031, or will it lead to four years? No. The payment time will be extended, he says. Now, very dear friends, Mr. Oktay, look, what we've learned is that the Japanese company that built the Conqueror Sultan Mehmet Bridge, and the company that built this bridge, $1.470 billion, and in all the work, the cost of this bridge -- $1.2 billion -- is 1,430. Now, my dear friends, there's a feature of the payment starting with $35 here: from the date of the ad, from 2008, the rate of American inflation is increasing. I mean, it doesn't start at $35 when it opens, it starts at $42 when it opens, it's $46.74. Now, according to our calculations, it's just... and this first bridge ends in Istanbul for three and a half or four years, and the second bridge ends about three years, give or take, so there's no more than four years of these bridges, that's the world's experience. Thus, the bridge ends in three years and four months, and three years end eight months early, ending three hundred and fifty-four days early. What's the payment for a thousand three hundred and fifty-four days? 2 billion 130 million, 248 thousand additional payments. The cost of the bridge is 1,470. Dear friends, why isn't this in the contract? We're asking you to verify this information with official documents and enlighten the public, and we'll be a means of public enlightenment here. And the result is: at $46.74 per day, the average cost of this bridge is $13 billion, $15 million, and at the end of 2035, that's what the Turkish nation, the treasure, the nation, whatever it is, will pay, $3,944 million for the road, and $16 billion,959 million in total. Turkey's borders are 25,000 kilometers, we're building the bridge, we're building Turkey's borders, we're building the highway, there's $300-350 million left, and we're spraying it. We gave you the tank palette for $50 million, and it only has 212 million in its profits. If God grants us money, our nation will pay the bridge for $9.3, 80 lira; half of what's past is from the treasure. When you do that, this bridge will be paid in ten to twelve years. Our demand is that the CSIs and these contracts be passed on to the public together. Very dear friends, our preparation, of course, wasn't up to it, but it took some time on the subject. Now, essentially, this audit is part of budget management and budgetary rights. There's no point in talking about budget, budget, if we can't do this audit. I repeat, we're here to confirm this information with official information. With all our work, if we share this information with the public, whether it's this or not, we'll be a means to an end. My dear friends continue with structural blockage, poverty, corruption and bans. Look, we're in a banned Turkey, and there have been fines in the press that have started again, especially by making the GOOD PARTY invisible. I just want to remind friends of the AK PARTY: On August 14, 2001, the day the AK PARTY was founded at the Bilkent Hotel, Mr. Erdoğan appeared live on all four channels; and Mr. Minister is here as a witness. After that, Mr. Bkent, Mr. Abdullah joined, and we called that day Turkey of the Jews, and called it Turkey of the Jews. On October 25, 2017, Mr. Coral Akşener founded a party, and five months later, we could only show his photo on a television channel.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0046par0352	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0044par0353	Very dear friends, there is no progress in the societies where justice and righteousness fall. Look, one of the reasons we have problems is because we can't talk. Those who can't speak can't solve their problems and a Turkey that can't speak can't solve their problems, like at home. We're drowning under these. No one should be afraid of a talking Turkey. Progressal leadership requires a talking society, non-progressive leadership is afraid of talks and cowardly leadership. Today Turkey is not a photograph of Turkey, it is a powerful Turkey. Look, we own everything we need for a strong Turkey, everything. Believe me, let it be believed that righteousness and justice have entered this country firmly, and within three months there will be great enthusiasm in this geography, and this geography will be a Turkey that rises with its own energy and its own resources, just as you once did in 2007, and it will be a higher exit than that. With a renewed European Union strategy, Turkey will take its place in the strong world in the second half of the 21st century with an economic growth model based on production and employment, with an understanding that put economic geography in its centre in this sense, seeking stability in the region. Hopefully, our full demand is to go to national will for such an exit in 2021. I thank you, and I thank you, for bringing the budget back to charity, for helping our country solve its problems.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0047par0357	Thank you. On behalf of the Good PARTY Group, the second speaker is Mr. Erhan. Your time is thirty minutes. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0048par0362	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our dear citizens who are watching us on their screens, I salute you all. Today we are discussing Turkey's budget for 2021. Turkey's economic, social problems, foreign policy problems, political problems are getting worse. It seems the Turkish people no longer want to carry this government. So I'm a new politician, and I don't know much about these things, but in 2021, there's probably an election, and in this election, the government will go. So since it's probably your last budget, I think it would be best for me to draw out a little balance sheet for 18 years and do damage assessments. Now, of course, we're going to do budget evaluations here, macroeconomic evaluations. The owner of the budget, you know, Mr. President. The President does not participate in these budget talks, according to the Constitution, the Vice President agrees; he is also beautiful. But we haven't come across any statement from Mr. Oktay about macroeconomic issues, other than those budget presentations over there. Now, we're going to criticize, we're going to evaluate, and who are we going to tell? So we need to stress immediately that there was such a setback with macroeconomic management. The Treasury and Finance Minister plays a role as Minister of Economic Affairs in Turkey over the last three years, but you're looking at the Treasury and Finance Minister, who will come to these budget talks, as normal, as other ministers, with his own budget being discussed. This setback needs to be fixed. As there is a glitch in many parts of this system, it's a new glitch in this system. Now, Mr. Tatekoglu has just expressed that this budget really has no vision, this budget has no purpose. Now, for eighty-five minutes, we've heard Mr. Oktay here, for God's sake, what do we have in mind? So what will Turkey do in 2021, and what will Turkey solve? We have a growth problem, the growth's blocked. Look -- not just corona -- last year this Turkey grew 0.9, Turkey entered a poverty trap. There's a Turkey that's down on potential growth, is there a solution in the budget? Turkey is becoming poor, our current problems continue to grow, we've become the second in inflation in the world, we can't produce technology, we're pursuing records in unemployment, we're breaking records in the history of the republic; there's nothing in this budget about solving these problems, folks. Society has problems. The farmer's in a lot of trouble today, he can't plant his field, his crops are down 13 percent in the last 15 years. Sir, there's a problem with the YIT people, there's a problem with unemployment, there's a problem with mass trade, there's 2 million tradesmen shutting down; there's nothing in this budget. Just as Mr. Oktay was giving his speech, my friends, the AK PARTY group applauded the strongest part of the KUI, I don't know if you noticed. The CMEs are the softest belly of this budget and this government. I immediately came up with a story like, you know, IV. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Now, Bekri Mustafa, a young man who had studied madrassa in his day, but then it became a girl's issue, and he drinks himself, so he's a citizen who's always in the taverns, despite the bans at that time. Now, one day, the mosque of the neighborhood is empty, no imams, Bekri Mustapha, they say: "Come, you be an imam here, and Bekri Mustafa finally accepts it." Anyway... funerals happen, every funeral, Bekri Mustafa goes and says something in the ear of the funeral. The congregation is wondering what the last thing they do is pretend someone's dead and put them in a coffin. Bekri Mustafa says to the funeral, "When you go to the next world, they'll ask you what's going on?" They'll say, "What's going on in the world?" You can say, "Bekri Mustafa has been an imam to the mosque." They understand the state of the world. The most applauded place is the BCI and the softest belly of the budget. Mr. Tatekoglu just explained it in detail. Now, of course, there was no claim here, Mr. Oktay, but in places where there was no opposition, social media, or such unilateral talks -- starting with Mr. President -- and following lawmakers from the ruling party -- you think there was nothing in Turkey before the EC PARK. A congressman even asked, was there a car before the AK PARTY? I'm taking it further; there was no fire; there was no fire in Turkey; the wheel was not invented; it was with you! [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Let's see if that's what happened. Now -- but you're starting to face facts -- notice, he's always saying things before, and now he's always making excuses. Yes, Turkey doesn't grow, but there's a problem with inflation... but it's like this, it's always made up excuses. We're about to see if there was anything in Turkey before the AK PARTY. Friends, of course, growth performance, the most important thing is economic growth. Let's compare our growth performance to the AK PARTY period. Who are we going to compare it to? When we compare countries in our class to developing countries, I first say this: 18 years before the blue and orange AK PARTY there. What are we giving there? In the eighteen years before the EC PARTY, the blue ones are developing countries, and the orange ones are Turkey. Notice that Turkey, despite all the challenges of the 90s, has averaged more than the developing countries, a growth performance. So developing countries grew by 3.9 years, while Turkey grew by 4 percent. In the period of EC PARTY governments, or rather after 2000, growth performance has increased in developing countries around the world. Globalism... we've been through this a dozen times, and I'm not going to go into a lot of explanations. We're looking at the period of EC PARTY governments: developing countries grow by 5.2 per cent, Turkey grows by 4.8 per cent, average, in 18 years. Here, if we take the last year, the number of the government, maybe it'll go up to 4.9-5. So before the AK PARTY, despite all the challenges, developing countries are growing above their average Turkey, while developing countries are growing more than Turkey on average during the AK PARTY administrations. This is a very important matter. What's more important? According to the International Fund of Money for the next five years, developing countries will grow by 5 per cent, while Turkey's growth estimate is 3.9, because Turkey has lost potential growth. Dear friends, let's look at it as a share. What is Turkey's share in developing economies? The blue ones on the first block are 2002. Turkey has a 3.4 per cent stake in developing countries' national income, and we're looking at it now, and Turkey's share in 2019 is down to 2.1 per cent, so the performance of developing countries has been on us many times. When we look at the acquisition power parite -- which we don't look at because we're talking about each number over dollars -- we see that the performance is almost the same there again, but we need to see that Turkey performs far below the developing countries in the first bloc. Dear MPs, of course, we're getting these growths. You know, there's a very serious relationship between growth and current deficits, especially when countries like us who have a problem with financing need funding to grow, and financing is sources from outside, external savings, we call it current. Before the EC PARTY, Turkey made the growth on the performance of the developing countries that I just mentioned by creating how current it is, by creating how current the AK PARTY is, let's look at it now. Here, this first part is the national percentage of Turkey's current deficit in 18 years before the AK PARTY. Do you see the number? 0.5. Turkey has performed on developing countries and has grown by 4 per cent, with the annual average current deficit. What was it like during the AK PARTY administrations? Globality, that's the bet. We brought in the money, we buried it in the dwelling, we buried it in construction, we buried it in consumption. During the EC PARTY administrations, the current was up 4.1 per cent, year-on-year average. And I'll give you the number values of this -- in the 18 years before you -- Turkey, which, according to developing countries, achieved that growth by using just 21 billion dollars in external savings in total -- has given $562 billion in revenue in your time, so it's used external resources, yet it's performed under developing countries. So when we look at it like this, we need to see that your report card is very bad. Now, the foreign trade part is the same. I'm not going into current figures of the current current current account deficit; the New Economy Program has a $24.4 billion deficit of 2020. Well, in a day's time, can a number be invalidated? This is the 16th Midterm Program, no medium-term program, I claim, has been so disreputable. So on day one, we have a middle-term program that's been discredited; we now have a current account deficit at 28 billion dollars at the end of September, we have the same problem for foreign trade, but at the end of the year, we probably have $34 billion, or at the end of the year, 2.2 more dollars, 4.6 more dollars, $28.34 billion... you say that's 50 per cent off in a month; that's not going to happen. Now, Mr. Trade Minister says a few days ago: "We are reaching our destinations one by one. " You're looking at what goal is it reaching? I've just told you the Cari deficit, they've already crossed the target; how's the foreign trade? The mid-term program says $38 billion in foreign trade deficits, found $45 billion in January-November 2020. So I threw it away, and I said, "Mr. Secretary, please don't be so hard on yourselves, you've already crossed your goals, but this is a disease in this country. The ministers in charge of this trade always look at exports, no one looks at imports. Now, of course, it's becoming absurd to even ask, what was your export goal in 2023, 500 billion dollars, because your goal there is $214 billion for the $500 billion you're now renovating. Of course, when you don't grow up, you go through the roof of unemployment. Now let's look at unemployment figures: We're showing Turkey's unemployment rates. The Blues are the average unemployment rate for 18 years before the AK PARTY. So there was an average unemployment in Turkey before the AK PARTY, which was 7.6 per cent -- which is high. What happened in 18 years of AK PARTY? Ten and a half percent unemployment rate, friends, average. Now, let's look at the green part where you take over as a year. Now, when you take over in 2002, you have 9.8% unemployment, and in 2020 -- I'm telling you the number in the mid-term program -- 13.8%. Four points, you've increased unemployment in the time you've been getting it. That's the performance? That's why, in his frustration, Mr. Oktay has just had to explain a budget to us without any excitement. Of course, we're not happy about it, we're sad about it. That's a narrow-defined unemployment rate, folks. Currently there are 12 million unemployed in Turkey, and a significant part of them are young and educated. We need to see this, too. Now, there's an inflation story in Turkey -- I'm so sorry, I don't want to use that word, but there's an inflation lie. We say that sometimes: look, friends, inflation goes very fast. Turkey suffered inflation. Please don't underestimate this inflation. For example, we had a Minister called Nihat Zeybekci, and I remember part of him saying: "What happens if inflation is two points higher?" So inflation was underestimated. Sometimes, inflation -- now that it's 14, they don't say now -- was called 8 to 10 percent when it was said: "Ya, brother, Turkey comes from 70 percent inflation." Do you see a lot of 10 percent inflation, and now you're criticizing it? You couldn't find anything else to criticize. But, of course, since no one has ever managed perception as far as the AK PARTY, since no power in this country has ever been able to explain them, we thought that those 70 percent inflations were Turkey's problem, just that there were no problems anywhere else in the world. Now let's see if it is. Here, it's called the high inflation period... it's a bit analytic; periods, years one-on-one, not the same. The developing countries also had high inflation periods, and we had high inflation periods, and now we have low inflation periods, although not very low. I've already told you the details of this in the Plan and Budget Commission, and we can give it to friends. When we look at high inflation, friends, the average inflation of developing countries is 74.6 percent. In other countries, inflation is 74.6% and 70.9% in Turkey. High? Yeah, it's high, but it's a structural problem at the time. Why? Because there is no flow of funds for developing countries at the time, and countries are unable to grow, and they face high inflation issues. But as we look at it, those countries are rapidly overcoming this inflation issue. Now, this is a low inflation period. The first bar is the developing country. You see, average inflation in developing countries during low inflation is 7.4 percent. So now it's around 4.4, but since it's an average period, there's a graph going down 7.4 percent. How much do we have? 10.4%. So roughly when we look at these low inflation periods as an AK PARTI period, Turkey has now become a country with a much higher inflation than countries in the same class, while in the past -- prior to the AK PARTY -- has a lower inflation than countries in the same class. Of course, it's worse than that -- inflation has hardened in Turkey now -- it's next semester. Again, when we receive data from the International Fund of Money, in the 2021-2025 period, an inflation of 4.3 per cent for developing countries -- which is almost that level today -- inflation for Turkey for the next five years is 11.3 per cent, friends. So what we're trying to say about inflation is that, of course, inflation has fallen during the AK PARTY administrations, but we have to look at it in terms of the period and the countries in the similar class. A trend started, inflation was a fall trend, so we caught a bit of that trend. But we have to say that before the EC PARTY governments, when inflation was far below similar countries in the same class, Turkey faced much more inflation than similar countries during the AK PARTY administrations. Now, Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, of course, there are consequences for the fact that macroeconomic performance is so bad -- it reflects on other indicators. Now, you're looking... Let me tell you something else: it's G20, isn't it? For a time, Mr. President spoke too many names of the G20. In fact, in Turkey, Turkey became a G20 country during the AK PARTI administrations. Of course that's not true. Turkey became a G20 country before the EC PARTY administrations. In the 90s, Turkey, for example, ranked 18th in the ranking of the largest countries in 1993. What number is it today? In 2019, he was the 19th in 2020, according to the IMF, and 19th in Turkey's estimates. So according to our previous situation, yes, some progress has been made according to 2002, but there is a Turkey that performed much better in the 90s. But I'll tell you what's worse: Turkey will fall to the 21st place for 2021, according to the International Fund for Money. So Turkey's performance is getting worse. Of course, that was in terms of total size, and the situation is much more dire in terms of income per person. How's that? In '93, for example, I could say here, I could say 90, but in order not to extend it... in the 90th place, in 49th place, in the world, in terms of income per person, 51st in 91, 50th in 93. In the early years of the EC PARTY administrations, Turkey is also recovering from its period -- although it is bad -- to the 60th place -- and we need to hand it over. In 2019, however, Turkey has been ranked as the 75th in the world in terms of income per person. In the 90s, Turkey was ranked as number 50 in the 90s, ranking 75. More critically, in 2021, the International Fund of Money estimates that it will fall to the 85th place. Turkey doesn't deserve them, friends, Turkey doesn't deserve them because Turkey is badly ruled. Why is it mismanaged? So, again, I'll tell you from the numbers of the President of Strategy and Budget, there's an account called Total Factor Efficiency, I won't go into the details of the account, not everyone is an economist. But here's the thing: where investments and all kinds of factors that affect growth other than employment come in, that's what we call total factor efficiency. There's a legal system here, there's democracy here, there's business environment, there's education, there's health, there's workforce quality, there's everything -- it's an account that's been done by the former State Planning Agency, it's an international, it's a creditary account. Now, you see, in the 1998-2018 period, Turkey had an average of 0.7 per year to increase its overall factor efficiency. So from other factors -- for example -- if 4 is bigger, 0.7 is bigger, the average growth of Turkey is 4.7, we're going to add directly to it. Now, you're looking at the period of AK PARTY governments, the year 2002-2007, the contribution to growth from total factor efficiency, 2.7 friends, year-on-year. Because it was really the years when Turkey was well-run; the average contribution comes from 2.7 years. You're looking at the next 2010-2018 -- it's not an account that I can do because it hasn't been published, it's an account that's coming out of a model -- it's down to 0.6, look, you see the acceleration loss. But I'll tell you what's worse: I will continue to rule badly for the year 2020-2022, and I will not bring a growth of efficiency to this country. For the time being, we have a government that predicts the contribution to growth from the total efficiency of the factor for the next three years only to 0.4. Dear friends, we just said Turkey created a $562 billion current, right, during the AK PARTY administrations? Of course, that created a serious vulnerability in the economy. Now, in other ways than other sources, we're looking at Turkey's international investment position, which is Turkey's assets in total foreign exchanges and its obligations in total exchanges, and now, because we're so focused on this issue, it's because I'm taking it so hard because the Turkish economy has become a very fragile country, and this vulnerability has become a country with a serious foreign policy problem, and that's one of the main problems that we have in domestic politics is that the economy doesn't grow. It's a becca problem, so I'm on it. We have a third quarter of 2020 in the international investment position; we have $368.5 billion in net position Turkey. So when we subtract the currency liabilities from their currency, it's not a positive, minus $368.5 billion... It's a very high number, and it creates serious vulnerability. You know how sometimes friends -- they can't do it now -- they love to compare it to nice 2002, so let's give them a 2002 number, it's only $85 billion? At 85 billion dollars, you finally can't talk about 2002, you shouldn't have talked about it already, but you've understood some things. Now, you've brought your open position at $85 billion to $368.5 billion. Now, what's even worse, I'm telling you, as of September 2020, what's the opening position of our real-estate sector -- $130 billion, their obligations are $293 billion, their currency obligations, friends, and their net position is 162 billion, as well as our industry in OSTIM, or elsewhere, our business in Sites, or our higher, larger firms. You guys, now, you figure, let's figure out the financial burden that every penny in the dollar brings on this section. Come on, beyond that, if they're in liquidity trouble, they're going to have to change hands, they're going to have to change hands, they're already changing hands, we're going to run a story every day, or, in fact, it's not allowed to be reported. But when you talk to the industrialists, the medium-sized firms are always alienating, so Turkey's assets are in a sense attracting foreigners at the price of bargains. So it's a very serious problem for companies. According to the description of our firms, It's a very important issue, but since I don't have time, I won't dwell on it, but let's just take a note: our firms are caught in a medium scale trap. I remember that scale and efficiency are also a lot, and I remember talking about it here before, so we see that the scale is very low and the efficiency is very low. While we should be expanding companies today, companies are having a hard time standing up and getting into the hands of strangers. Now, when we look at Turkey's obligations under a year, we see that there are 182.5 billion dollars. So Turkey has to find $182.5 billion in external financing over the next year. Mr. Ismail just told me that our reserves are negative, so I'll give you that detail in a minute, so you think about the rest. Sure, what happens when all this happens? At one time, it was in the period of the government of Turkey -- the investmentable country -- which was once made from 3 ratings at the level of investment -- which we are grateful for today -- as a result of this bad administration, Moodys is at a level of 5 that can be invested according to Moodys, which is three levels below Fitch, which is four levels below S&P. I remember talking a lot about economic security in the 2018 budget here, and we did these warnings at the time, and unfortunately today we're dealing with the same things. The issue of economic security is important for Turkey; it is important for Turkey's back. We have to reduce Turkey's vulnerability, produce Turkey, we have to turn it into Turkey. None of these problems, if you don't produce them, take them there, give them here, and I'll tell you about the public banks in a second, so none of these problems can get through to them. We're always prepared to support economic security if any of us are asked for support, but economic security is a very important issue. Now, of course, we criticize, we make suggestions. We have no hope of you, Mr. Oktay, from you and your government, which means you will no longer be able to solve any of Turkey's problems because there is no political will, you have lost trust. Trust doesn't come back when it's gone again. You've worn out institutions, played with ministries all the time. You're against everything with roots, you're against everything in this country, from school names to institutions. Is that even possible? You've changed the name of everything, reconstructed it. You're ruining the name, you're doing it again. Yeah, institutions aren't Lego, they're not children's toys. So in this country, you've removed the State Planning Agency, removed the Finance Board, removed the Board of Accounting Experts. You're against anything with roots. There's no way to understand that. Yeah, what does that bring? In the end, we face a Turkey with no institutions, no reputations, the Central Bank has lost its independence, the BDK is tied up, the EPDK is tied up, the Information Communication Agency is tied up. We've brought it, and we've connected everything to one man, and then we're waiting for Turkey to settle its affairs. I told you in the Plan and Budget Commission that this country hasn't had a protocol list according to the new system in two and a half years, folks. There's no need, there's no need, of course, one person's location, no matter what's left of it, maybe because of it. We asked the State Department what is this protocol list? They said: "He is waiting in front of the President." The list of Turkey's protocols... think of the rest. We know you can't control the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I've been here a lot as a bureaucrat. So Erbakans, the Ironels would talk for two hours. Even an hour's limitation shows that the Turkish Grand National Assembly has failed to maintain control. Now, in the new system, we said that if anything goes wrong with the President's decrees, Parliament will correct this decree with a law he will adopt. Two and a half years later, is there a law here that corrected the President's decree? Can we say that this system works? Didn't they make any mistakes? They make mistakes all the time. So one-third of the decisions issued were the original decree, two-thirds of it was a decree that corrected those decrees, but it was a Parliament that failed to show the will to correct those decrees. You didn't give a damn about merit in assignments. You've destroyed the interagency reputation. Now, we need to look at a report card of the party presidency system -- of course, I'm running out of time -- but there's no need to look at the report card. So in two and a half years, Turkey hasn't grown, 0.5 percent smaller. In this period, TÜFE (TIFE) reached 25 per cent, reaching 46 per cent. You gave us 46% inflation during this period. Now, as of the end of 2020, we already know that it's 14 percent, and it's 23 percent. I mean, inflation sucks. He bought this system with a dry 4.55, which is now 7.80, and has lost 71 per cent of Turkish money. In the January-July 2018 period, when this system began, Turkey gave only 10 per cent of its tax revenues to interest, while now it's paying 20 per cent, doubling as a rasyo. The central administration's debt supply has doubled, so I'm not giving you the numbers. Because of the wrong debt strategy, friends -- look, this is very important, this is Chomelli -- Turkey has endured 135 billion TL, with no exchange and no gold debt. You know, when it comes to the shop, there's no money. It's called money. So, in total, we're dealing with a power that's given 17 times the amount of $8 billion we spent on the pandemic process to a handful of interest lobbys because of the error of the debt strategy alone. Now, our annual interest payments, our foreign interest payments are up to 15 billion dollars, jobs have reduced by 1.8 million people in the last two years -- look, I'm not saying unemployment has gone up, there's been 3.2 million job reductions in the last two years. The foreign debt stock has gone up five points in the last two years, even when we look at it as a national income rate. The Republic of Turkey's reserves are down to minus 42 billion dollars, with 72 billion dollars in reserves lost at this time. If we look at it in terms of international reserves, it's $125 billion. Of course, here, everybody's asking that question, and I'm asking you once, who did we give these cheap dollars to? Who did we sell these cheap dollars to? According to one account, the average was sold at 6.20. If we figure out over $125 billion, this government, this incompetent Central Bank, and the incompetent ministers, will come here and answer for it. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] Turkey's debt burden is also increasing during this period, friends. On September 30, 2017, when 141 per cent -- I'm talking about the debt of the entire country -- this time on September 30, 2020 -- there is no need to mention an external debt that has reached 168 per cent of national income, Turkey's total debt is increasing. During 2002-2020, Turkey's total debt increased 19 times. Now, Hakan Kara, the former chief economist of the Central Bank, says that limiting the interest of the Central Bank has done more damage to the country in the last decade than all geopolitical and global risks. This is what happens if you don't run the institutions. Needless to say, our 15% interest rate is first in the world. Poland is a developing country, with a 0.1 interest rate, and we have 15 percent. In India, in Africa, the interest rates are similar, so I'm going to skip here. Now, I'd like to briefly say the part about fighting the pandemic. The fight against pandemic has been extremely unsuccessful for Turkey. It was started with irrational decisions; the plane tickets were downloaded by VAT, the mortgages were given, so we faced a government that couldn't read the matter. Citizens who lost their income were not helped in any way during this period, my friends. Short work grants, yes, they were made; they were already paid for by the unemployed, from the unemployment fund. The grant from the budget is only $8 billion. We've made a motion for the tradesmen. At least for six months, he refused the motion to give 2,000 liras to our tradesman. Esnafa from here, I'm complaining about this government. A penny wasn't put into this budget for the tradesman. So 100 billion liras were put into contractors for public private cooperation, and not a penny was put in the shop, not a penny was put in the money.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0049par0398	Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0048par0399	His direct payments, including the farmer's money, gave the farmer a price under the last year. I'm going to move forward on public banks, but I'd like to come here to talk about agriculture. The farmer's a mess. Look, during the AK PARTY administrations, the agricultural product goes up 8.6 times, which is good, but the farmer's debt goes up 51 times. Farmers' debt also increases to 47 per cent. So if the farmer invests all of what he's producing in his debt, he's in a position to pay off his debt. October is down 13 percent in the last 15 years. Mr. Erdogan says we now understand the importance of agriculture in combating his pandemic. I'm sorry it doesn't work that way. If you put money in the budget, I know you understand the importance. If you keep 22 billion dollars stable despite 14 per cent inflation, that means you don't give the farmer anything in the budget. Now you're looking at the farmer...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0050par0401	We provided record support back then.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0048par0402	I'd love to, but I don't have time for this now, Mr. Cora, so I'll take care of it with you later. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] A farmer who bought a tractor in 2002 with 91 tons of wheat, now, for 2019...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0051par0406	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0048par0407	Thank you, Mr. President. ...at 116 tons of wheat in 2019, he can only buy 1 tractor, up from 91 tons to 116 tons. In 2002, a farmer who buys 220 litres of diesel with a ton of wheat received only 188 litres of diesel in 2019. Again, the farmer who buys about 1 ton of wheat and about 1 ton of fertilizer can only buy fertilizer if he sells 1.5 tons of wheat in 2019. After that, you say that we understand the importance of agriculture. This is no way to understand the importance of agriculture. Dear friends, the budget, the public finances are getting very bad, so we're going to talk about this in the Treasury and Finance Ministry budget now, but this matter of public banks is very important, and I'm going to do a detailed analysis there. You've got to get rid of this asset fund, you've got to find a solution to public-special cooperation projects, you've got to be transparent in public contracts. It's not possible to talk about sustainable development in a country where there's no rule of law, no understanding of transparency and accountability, no efficient control mechanisms, but we solve all these problems using our nation's common sense and conscience. Finding the truth is a matter of courage, it's a matter of courage, it's part of the good party. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] I call upon the good and good luck of the budget, and I salute the General Assembly and our citizens. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit01spe0052par0415	Thank you. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0052par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 24th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and with the Central Management Act of 2019. The commission is in place. The first speaker on behalf of the National Movement Party Group is Deputy Director of the Group and Manisa MP Erkan Akçay. Here you go, Mr. Akçay. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0053par0008	Mr. President, we begin negotiations with the esteemed lawmakers, the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021, and the Central Management Accounting Law Proposal of 2019. I'm here to share the nationalist movement group's thoughts and opinions. I salute our beloved nation and your honorable delegation who follow us. As we begin with my words, I remember our ancestors who entrusted our beloved homeland to us, the founder of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, our heroic martyrs who were buried for the sake of our country, the founder of our party, Basbug Alparslan Turkesh. In the plague, in the quakes and avalanches, I give my condolences to our citizens who died in various accidents, to their families and to our nation. Congratulating our security forces, whose success in the fight against terrorism is epic, I entrust each one to God. We hold budget talks at the end of a difficult year in the world and Turkey. The outbreak of Covid-19, which dominates the world and our country, is the ongoing fight against terrorism, the threats aimed at our stay in foreign policy, the economic attacks aimed at bringing our country to its knees are the highlights of the agenda. A hundred years ago, in the shadow of wars and epidemics, we again understand the importance of our Parliament, which was founded on the principle of national domination and ruled the Battle of Salvation. We're acting on the sense of responsibility that thousands of years of our national history and the 100 years of our Veteran Assembly have placed on our shoulders. Honourable lawmakers are one of the tools to oversee the government through parliament, the first condition of a state's democratic quality. The budget should grasp social facts, shed light on the Turkish nation's expectations. The budgetary right of parliament has been developed in the plane of balance, control and separation of forces, the core of the presidential government system. A budget contributing to financial transparency and accountability has been presented to the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The 2021-Year Centre Management Budget Law Proposal is based on performance. The performance-based programme will provide a strong link between public services and funding allocations and bring public expectations to light. In 12 days of budget talks, we will evaluate how much people's money will be spent in what services; in light of the facts, we will look at it today, today and tomorrow; in the perspective of our business, our farmer, our worker, our industry, our pensioner, our young, all social areas. By patiently and carefully following budget talks, we will share our thoughts with democratic maturity, objective, realistic, and offering solutions. Congressmans, we continue successfully and decisively to fight the outbreak of Covid-19, which has dominated the world and our country. While Europe has senior patients signing death protocols, our government is concerned with its citizens of all ages. Our patients are provided with free diagnostics, treatments, and supplies with a social state understanding. While Western countries sought piracy, Turkey responded to the cry for help from more than 180 countries. Turkey's loyalty, compassion, and conquest are an example to the world. We congratulate all of our health workers, who are working day by night in the fight against the plague, and we give thanks. Dear lawmakers, for us, politics is an activity with the nation, for the nation, for the nation. That's why we call it my country and nation, then my party and me. Politics is too important to be delivered to blind fights, too valuable to sacrifice to cheap politics. It's not politics to hope that your political motivation will grow from polymixes, demagogues, foreign countries, terrorist organizations, fucking ▪, PKK. It is neither politics nor opposition to the values and institutions of our country. (MHP and AK PARTY) According to our understanding, the politician should dedicate his existence to Turkey and the Turkish nation, not to the dirty intentions of dark ruins. The politician must take his power and his reference from across the Atlantic, not from Europe, but from the will of the nation. Any politician who wants to serve his country must first express his views by respecting the values of the nation and the institutions of the country. Think of a politician who has made a statement that Turkey has crossed the line in Libya. If the same person accuses his country and says, "It does not fit the decisions of the United Nations in Libya," how will we interpret these statements if Turkey complains and aims at the United Nations? A day after that announcement, the Turkish ship, which brought humanitarian aid to Libya, was raided by the German warship against international law by the Greek commander. It's a coincidence that a political friend of this politician's working together in politics is trying to justify this raid to the dominants, so how do we explain it? It doesn't end with counting these and similar explanations, but let's continue to make some reminders in order to refresh the memory. They said that Turkey does not respect the territorial integrity of its neighbours, it supports radical elements. They also said that Turkey helped Azerbaijan with weapons, sent jihadist groups. Turkey has no life and property security, no law and democracy, and they have spoken in terms of investing. They said the YPG was not a terrorist organization. They strongly opposed Turkey's cross-border operations against terrorist organisations. In Syria they described Turkey as a pirate state fighting the YPG/PKK. They compared the Turkish soldier in Libya to the legion. Dear lawmakers, some of them have increased security concerns in the community, but it's not because of the terrorists, it's because of the robbers, it's because of the police and the guards. What's that supposed to mean, not smearing the security forces and exonerating the terrorist and the extortionist? Consider the following words: Turkey is not legitimate in Syria. Turkey is a population engineer in Syria. They said. Is that not slandering Turkey? If we wage war on Syria today, I will hold the banko Assad. What will we say? What conscience do we refer to those who say "SIHA" to shoot civilians? A terrorist who fired bullets at our soldier and then was neutralized by security forces, held a press conference at the Capitol, and then put it under the command of the PTSK Qatar. How do we respond, and how do we interpret it? In his statement in the past, the person who opposed our activities in the Eastern Mediterranean was sold to the army Qatar. While the glorious Turkish army fought, fought, fought, fought, fought, fought, and achieved epic success on land, air, and sea. Dear MPs, the sainted Turkish nation, it is clear that an organised and synchronized smearing campaign has been carried out against Turkey and the Turkish nation, the Turkish army. Turkey's efforts to put it in a difficult position in the international arena are evident. It is clear that they have co-operated with some of the countries against Turkey. But the Turkish nation will never forgive them. Dear MPs, the Presidential Alliance has successfully completed its fourth year, the second year of the presidency's government system. Management systems are built with values, facts, and facts that are the carriers of these systems. In this context, an ideal and value union in the common denominator of the Cumhur Alliance, Turkey and the Turkish nation is the basis of a national consensus. The Cumhur Alliance is neither an election alliance nor a ruling coalition. The Cumhur Alliance is primarily an alliance of systems, and the Cumhur Alliance is also an alliance of production. The presidential government system's guarantor and reference is our national will and political history. This system is finally passed, not by daily political impulses, but by necessity and historical experiences. The presidential government system ended government crises, unstable governments, and the focus of coup and custody has been lifted to the dusty shelves of history. The system operates in a stable manner, within the framework of democratic institutions and rules. It will also strengthen its strength with reforms in economic, law and social areas. The essence of the presidential government system has been built on four pillars: stability, justice in representation, strong legislation, strong execution, balance and control mechanisms, democratic reconciliation and political stability. Let's look at the extent of these goals with the presidential government system, which is in effect on July 9, 2018: Our Veteran Assembly has achieved the highest representation at about 95 per cent in its 100-year history, so 95 per cent of the votes of our citizens are now represented in our Parliament. Our parliament has 12 political parties, 5 party groups and nine independent MPs, pluralism and representation, and a compromise structure, as well as chair distributions. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has achieved a strong, functional and more democratic structure with separate forces. In the administration, more than 50 per cent, a high support and representation made Turkey strong in the execution of the national will, strengthening it. The stability of the administration has dealt with threats to our national ranks in both domestic and foreign policy in a stronger way. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, the guarantee of democracy, human rights, a healthy legal system is to have an independent and powerful state. Security is one of the basic conditions of state and nation's life. Therefore, the fight against terrorism, a multidimensional issue, is our top priority as a country. Terror is a vile scheme that concerns every member of our country, aims at our unity and integrity, costs the lives of tens of thousands of people, hurts us so badly, tries to ruin the future of our country, and wants to trap our energy within ourselves. Turkey is the main target of this treacherous scheme in the world and in our region. In the fight against terrorism, it is also necessary to deal with tie supporters who are as much as blood-soaked, armed terrorists, who are carrying and promoting terrorist organizations, who are supportive, who are trying to prevent the fight against terrorism. Those who try to promote terrorists as a canary-loving association should know that the Republic of Turkey will continue this struggle with determination, no matter what anyone says, and hopefully the root of terrorism will be wiped out. A number of politicians and professional rooms executives and some media members have never opposed the ▪ or Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK); on the contrary, they opposed the struggle with ▪ and Kurdistan, particularly after July 15th, using the government's fight as a lever with a democratic opposition mask. As it is known, on the evening of July 15, 2016, the collected agents attempted a coup against Turkey. The servant of the imperial lords, the traitor, was defeated on the night of July 15th. The fight against PKK, Å, DAEŞ and all terrorist organisations continues successfully inland and across the border. Turkey, regardless of its name, will continue its relentless struggle with all terrorist organizations, regardless of what it may be called. The mothers who were kidnapped by terrorist organizations and their supporters are behind the terrorist organization as they rise from Diyarbakir. Cities are free of terror, built, peaceful environments. The common saying and prayer of all of our citizens who have experienced the suffering of terror is this: Let God not destroy our state, our nation, and our security forces. Let terror be rooted out, peace. Congressmans, we need to analyze the chaotic structure of the world very well today. The world that's out of control, the world that's out of balance, is in the throes of new balances. The international system is moving towards a new balance and paradigm. The imperial games in the world and in our region are the manifestations of these pains. Turkey is not a prisoner of issues in foreign policy, it is a judge; it is a factor, not a passive one. The Turkish state will never honor the mandacist mousy within us. We know our geopolitical and geostrategic facts. Turkey has not been indifferent to any matter concerning its stay, its rights and interests. The man has not said, "Don't worry about it, go late." The sieges surrounding us are being eliminated one by one; the evil game is broken, the private game is set up. In northern Iraq, with Operation Claws, in northern Syria, we have been established with the Fırat Shield, the olive branch, the Peace Fountain, and our borders have been free of terror, security and peace. In the Mediterranean, the necessary response is given to the focus of the aims of compressing Turkey into land. The pawn state has struck the will of rights and interests of the United States and France, which have unleashed Greece upon us. Sevr's ambitions have failed, the game of evil alliances has failed. Armenia's attacks on Azerbaijan have resulted in Azerbaijan's epic victory. The toad has been freed, and the walls surrounding us have fallen. Every table without Turkey has been proved rotten, every field without our flag fluctuating is slippery. Honourable MPs, Turkey is also fighting very hard in the economy. The global hit men's July 15th initiative exploded in their hands, and they've come up with new sneaky plans. Global money brokers came in with weapons of courtship, threatened foreign trade, played with markets and coveted our nation's pockets. Credit rating agencies have deliberately reduced notes. Some foreign heads of state personally threatened the Turkish economy. They've imposed an embargo on our two ministers. The United States brought additional taxes on Turkish goods. Speculative courtship attacks were carried out. Now they're trying to test it with interest. In 2018, the rise in FED interest, the rise in dollar index, the US-Chinese trade wars, the slowdown in the world trade, also caused Turkish lira to lose value in the face of dollars. In 2019 and 2020, inflation and interest were improved by the government's rapid and efficient decisions. During this period, significant distances have been recorded to reduce vulnerability. The improvement occurred in the last quarter of 2019 and in the first quarter of 2020. In 2020, many threats have been fought, from Syria to Libya, from Aegean to Eastern Mediterranean, from the Middle East to the Caucasus, mainly from Covid-19 outbreaks, natural disasters, asymmetrical, economic epidemics. A number of economic measures have been taken to reduce the negative impact of the Covid-19 epidemic on the economy. Turkey has been separated from the countries of the United States and the European Union in particular, thanks to economic measures in its time and place. In March, the Economic Stabilisation Shield Package (Pack) and the first steps to promote employment and production were taken, and further supports were expanded. Turkey's economy grew by 4.4 per cent in the first quarter of 2020 and 9.9% in the second quarter. At the same time, however, countries in the European Union have shrunk by 14 per cent and OECD countries at an average of 10.9 per cent - double digits. Leading data, such as industrial production, trust indexes, capacity usage rate, point to a strong recovery in the second quarter. In the third quarter, the economy of the United States and the European Union continued to shrink, while Turkey's economy grew by 6.7, despite record reductions in tourism due to pandemics. Despite the extreme recession of all the world's economies, our economy is expected to grow by at least 3.8 per cent in 2020 and 5.8 per cent in 2021. There has been no significant break in the economy, which has been taken in time to resist fluctuations. The success of the economy has disturbed the underdogs, attacked the economy with a new scenario. The longest of them is the attack on the Bank's foreign currency reserves. In early November, the national currency seen in all developing countries was seen in our country, similar to the value of dollars. Speakers of global economic hitmen have tried to make this development appear different to the public. In fact, a certain and famous ex-con has taken it to terrorist propaganda in front of the cameras. It also provided economic financing for Syria, the Eastern Mediterranean, Libya and other operations and policies. The discovery of natural gas in the Black Sea will contribute to a lasting recovery of our current balance. On the other hand, in our defence industry, the breakthroughs in the national drones, the SIHA, the TIHA, the ships, the armored vehicles, and weapons are the harbinger of the economic boom. Dear lawmakers, the world is pregnant with a new order. History invites Turkey to rise. The heart of this struggle is Turkey, its sponsor is Turkish history and the Turkish nation. Great and powerful Turkey is never a dream. Methehan, Alparslan, Fatih, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Tough roads don't cross with soft hearts. We're not going to defend the line, we're going to defend the sale; it's the whole country. We will work to bring our country to the ideal of 2023, 2053 and 2071, the great and powerful country of Turkey. I wish for the 2021 budget to be filled with brilliant achievements for our country. I salute your grand delegation and the great Turkish nation. Long live Turkey! May you live forever, Turkish nation! Blessed is he who says he's a Turk!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0054par0043	Thank you. Now on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the second speaker, Deputy Director of the Group, and Mr. Muhammad Levent Nightingale of Sakarya. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0055par0047	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group over the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2019 Central Management Accounting Law Proposal. At the beginning of my speech, I salute your grand delegation. The budget and final bill proposals submitted by the President to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 17 October 2020 began to meet with the Plan and Budget Commission on 21 October 2020, and the talks were completed on 27 November 2020. In the most dangerous period of the Covid-19 outbreak, I would like to thank all those who have worked hard, contributed, and served in the process of drafting the budget law proposal and negotiating it. I'd like to say that we support the budget law proposal, which is considered the National Movement Party. The budget of 2021 will negotiate the budget of 223 public administrations, including 40 general budget public administrations, 127 universities, 45 private budgetary public administrations, 11 regulatory and auditing public administrations. As a result of the amendment, the budget for 2021 was first prepared under the budget basis of the programme. The budget proposed in line with the goals in the New Economy Programme, which covers 2021-2023, aims to improve public balances and protect the public financial gains. According to 2021, budget costs increased by 22.9 per cent compared to 2020, it is understood that 1 trillion $346.1 billion and budget revenues were offered at $1 trillion 101.1 billion, while the budget deficit was estimated at $245 billion. The total tax revenues of 2021 appear to be 922.7 billion. The 2021-Year Centre Management Budget Law Proposal was prepared under the circumstances of the Covid-19 outbreak, which caused a massive shock and then a concussion in the global economy. Although the short-term destruction of the Covid-19 outbreak in the global economy has just begun to manifest itself, the real impact is foreseen by major changes in the global economy in the long run. In 2020, there were significant developments in production and demand in the global economy. The global scale growth projections were forced to be revised in the lower direction. The world economy is expected to shrink by 4.4 per cent in 2020. It is considered the largest recession since the 2009 global financial crisis. In 2021, it is estimated that the developed countries will shrink by 5.8 per cent in the same assessment, while in 2021 it will grow by 3.9 per cent. In the first quarter of 2020, Turkey's economy, which grew 4.4 per cent year-on-year, has shown itself since June, with its plan to normalise the economy, despite a global recession in the second quarter. In the third quarter, our economy grew by 6.4 percent, showing a strong V-type recovery performance. As the epidemic reduces its impact, it is estimated that in 2021 our economy will grow by 5.8 per cent. Despite the narrowing of the second quarter in 2020, exports in other quarters are estimated to be at 165.9 billion dollars, and export figures in 2021 will be at $184 billion. The unemployment rate is expected to be 13.8 per cent in 2020, while in 2021 it is expected to be reduced to 12.9 per cent. TÜFE is expected to fall to 8 per cent in 2021 and gradually down to 4.9 per cent by the end of 2023. We believe strong measures have been taken because of the policies and targeted strategic reforms set out with the new economic package at such a time as increased uncertainty and hesitations, commercial warfare rather than commercial competition. Given the fact that the global economy is on a negative course, it is of great importance to combat inflation within a system where firm monetary policy and financial policies and other tools will be effectively used. Again, it will be possible for our prosperity to reach the desired and desired levels by having an economy of production that leads to production-based exports, reduces import dependency, aims to increase investment and employment. Turkey's economy shows signs of resistance and recovery, with minimal damage from the tremors of the epidemic process, compared to the many developed and developing economies in the world. We expect positive developments in democracy, human rights and social well-being, as said by our President recently to take steps in the economic and legal field. The presidential government system is the most strategic management reform in Turkey. It is also vital that the presidential government system is rooted in its institutions and rules. For this reason, political parties and election laws, Turkey's Grand National Assembly Institution, parliamentary immunity, political ethical regulations, the conclusion and implementation of work for public institutional trade institutions will contribute greatly to the system's radicalisation. The presidential government system is Turkey's strategic force. With the government system built on strong state, strong government, democratic stability, our state has gained the ability to make faster and more effective decisions, and has the ability to act much more flexiblely. Turkey has shown to the world that it is a sovereign state, not a prisoner, but a dominant state, thanks to effective and human-centered diplomacy and deterrent firepower as it cuts off the breath of custody and terror centers inside. Turkey must deal decisively with the threats and attacks that concern it in any way in its administration at a time when it faces a major siege of Libya, the Sea of Islands, the East Mediterranean, Cyprus, Syria, Iraq, Caucasus, Western Thrace and the Balkans. When our recent political history is examined, we know very well that whenever our country tries to take an important step in the interest of our national interests, or if it tries to interfere with the activities of an imperial force, the governments who run the country suddenly face political operations or economic impacts. The presidential government system, at this very point, appears to be a strategic power factor, which, with undisputed legitimacy, does not allow governance crises, allowing any kind of threat and manipulation to fight uncompromisingly. In areas such as economics, energy, technology, defence, industry, agriculture, education and culture, national steps will only be possible with a strong and stable understanding of governance. The presidential government system, which is more suited to the structure of the Turkish nation and to the needs of the Turkish state, will become much stronger after the planned reforms take place. Dear MPs, on 23 April 2020, we have come to understand the 100th year of the establishment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Our Gazi Assembly, the headquarters of our national struggle, has earned its second title for the second time in its determination and heroism in its attempted treasonous coup attempt on July 15, 2016. Important programmes and activities have been carried out to mark the 100th year of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which no other parliament in the world has ever had. On this occasion, I wish our presidents, MPs and members of Parliament, who have served until now, especially our first Parliamentary Speaker, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and wish the living a good life. A constitutional amendment adopted as a result of the referendum on 16 April 2017 has made the division of forces more evident. In accordance with the principle of justice, Parliament has become more democratic and more powerful. Today, 12 political parties are represented in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, while 5 political parties are grouped. As such, the House appears to be at its highest in representation. If there was a parliamentary system in a table that was so diverse and reflected at the highest rate of voter will, we would have to talk about extremely fragile coalitions. However, the representation of so many political parties in parliament today thanks to the presidential government system does not cause instability in the administration, while the government remains stable, while a more fair and democratic representation could be involved in parliament. Following the new system, Parliament has demonstrated an intense legislature performance. When it is taken from the administration of the law to issue a decree, the authority of the legislature with the law has become absolute. Laws are submitted and legalized by lawmakers at the proposal of lawmakers. We believe it is necessary to make the necessary changes to Parliamentary Interior to ensure that the presidential government system is established by its institutions and rules. Once again, we would like to say that we are prepared to contribute positively as the National Movement Party to the changes in the Civil Code, which will improve the legislature's legislative capacity and quality. However, we believe that the commissions should be effective in the legislation and audit processes, that the system to analyse the impact of law proposals and report should be created, that a separate permanent residency commission will be established, which will be discussed by final accounts and audit reports. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, it is very important to increase trust in the judiciary, to develop and develop rights and freedoms, to improve judicial independence and neutrality, to facilitate access to justice, to maintain the right to trial at reasonable time. In accordance with this principle and values, three separate law packages have been passed in our Parliament. On 24 October 2019, the first court package was adopted on 15 April 2020 and the second court package on 28 July 2020. In the five-year period of imprisonment with the legal regulations carried out during this process, the possibility of appeals to the Supreme Court in cases related to certain crimes that have been finalised in the district court has been put into practice as significant developments in the investigation process of arrests, the adoption of settlements, prepayment, the course of a simple trial and the process of a series of trial, the restoration of the Justice Academy, the adoption of testimony and statements of children or victims in private courts. Again, it is possible that the application to a mediator in trade conflicts with consumer courts has been enforced as a condition of a lawsuit, that the courts of trade, ficri and testing rights can be established in major districts along with the city centers. Important regulations have been made in matters that are expected to be changed by the Law of Law and block judicial proceedings. In all other crimes, including terrorism, drug trafficking, sexual assault and abuse, intentional murder, torture and persecution, the sentence has been reduced to 1.2. The sentence has been extended to three years for other crimes, including terror, drug trafficking, sexual assault and abuse, torture and torture, and other counts of privacy. Prisoners in open prison, except for terror offenders due to the Covid-19 outbreak, have been released from open prisons temporarily. With another judicial arrangement, the entrance exam to Law Trades has been passed, and it has become possible to establish a new bar with the signature of at least 2,000 lawyers in more than 5,000 cities with the number of lawyers. At least 15 years old lawyers have been issued passports, and bar fees have been agreed to be removed by half of the lawyers who have just started the job. In addition to these regulations, the administrative regulations made by our Ministry of Justice and highly beneficial practices are being implemented within the framework of judicial reform. There is no doubt that new steps in the field of law will further strengthen the quality of our state's democratic legal state, contribute to the economy, investments, and ultimately the stability of our country. After the attempted coup attempt on July 15th, our judicial community has waged an relentless struggle against the اya and other terrorist organizations. Given the destruction that ▪ has caused in our judicial and justice system, the supreme sacrifice of our judicial community, which has fearlessly done its duty in the phases of investigation and trial to this day, is worthy of any appreciation. We are pleased to follow that the recent cases have concluded the trials of close to all of their structures and that they have received the fines they deserve. The new type of coronavirus Covid-19, thought to be effective at a specific time and a specific geography in the first period of December 2019, became a global epidemic known as SARS, swine flu, ebola viruses, which appeared in the Wuhan region of China in December 2019. The Covid-19 epidemic has taken over the entire world and has caught all government governments unprepared without a strong, weak state. The impact of the epidemic was not only in health, but in the global economy, in international relations, in the psychology of societies and in social life. By relying on their enormous economic, military and technological power, governments have surrendered to an enemy on a microscopic scale. There is no telling how much more life loss and damage the Covid-19 virus can cause until the vaccine is administered, which is certain to be prevented by a widespread use of the vaccine. Unlike many countries, the Turkish health system has not been caught unprepared for pandemics. Established in January 2020, the operations centre and established Coronavirus Science Board were acted with a proactive understanding. Turkey, along with its available resources in areas such as health care infrastructure, social security, food safety, has come to the attention of a state that has not only been self-sufficient, but has been able to help many countries. In the fight against the epidemic, the World Health Organization and many countries have made publications and made statements that have appreciated Turkey and found it successful. At Turkey's proposal, the World Health Organization adopted 2021 as the Year of Health Workers. The fact that our social security umbrella is free of trial and treatment for Covid-19 pandemic disease, which includes all of our society, and that the vaccine will be applied to all of our citizens for free, shows that Turkey is separated in a positive direction from many countries. A successful follow-up with filament teams created by the Ministry of Health has been carried out. In this process, Turkey has demonstrated its health power worldwide, not limited to the Covid-19 epidemic alone, with two emergency hospitals with a thousand-bedbed in the service within a very short period of time, along with city hospitals. In the meantime, it is also very important that the breathing device has been produced with domestic and national possibilities. It is also very satisfying that the success of drug and vaccine studies against coronavirus in our country and that it was announced by our Minister of Health that in April 2021 the local vaccine would begin to take place. However, until our local vaccine is used, 20 million doses of vaccines will be in our country on December 11th and will be given to our citizens free of charge. We give thanks to our medical army, the doctor, the nurse, and all of our medical staff, who have declared mobilization since the first day of the outbreak. A statement recently issued by our Ministry of Health stated that 12,000 new medical personnel will be taken. As well as welcoming these purchases, we also wish that our health care professionals, who are waiting to be closed as soon as possible, and who are waiting to be employed in public, will soon be able to receive their rights. Mr. President, our country is facing multi-dimensional and multi-layered security threats. The fluctuations in the international system, the chaos and conflicts in our nearby geography, the replaced by global competition, and the acts of terror and coup attempt in our country have clearly shown that the threat and danger we face in our country is at the level of beka. In a period when international organisations and international law are practically paralyzed, the rule of law is that Turkey has mobilized all its resources to eliminate threats and dangers against it and is determined to fight against its might. This framework includes our country from Libya to the Eastern Mediterranean, Cyprus to the Middle East, from the Middle East to the Caucasus. Unfortunately, our country deals with the bistandard behavior of the West, especially the United States and EU countries, in our fight against international law for the very right reasons. Turkey's strength with its army, its economy, its diplomacy, its ability to make decisions and implement them, its approach to issues with a sense of human-based justice and mercy is a threat to Turkey's great powers. With the outbreak of Covid-19, Turkey has aided 156 countries with health supplies, bringing more than 100,000 citizens from different countries of the world to our country. The world is greater than five. ▪ The international system is being adopted and expressed by many countries in the world today, especially about the change of the structure of the United Nations Security Council, which has rendered international law unfunctioning. In Turkey's region and in the areas of chaos and conflict around the world, it contributes effectively to peace, to arm the people who are hurt by humanitarian aid, and even to open the doors of its country, to welcome refugees in a manner worthy of human dignity, as factors that boost Turkey's reputation in our region and in the world. Turkey has made it clear to the world that there is always an important force to be reckoned with in its region. At the point of our legitimate rights and interests, our country's national policies will not only affect our present, but also our future. The interests of our country and the Turkish Cypriots are being ignored in the eastern Mediterranean. Because of existing hydrocarbon sources in the region, countries such as the United States, France, Britain, Russia have taken their place in this tension. Against the efforts of Israel, Egypt and Greece to seize the rights of Turkey and the Turkish Cypriots, Turkey remains decisively present in the Eastern Mediterranean. It is in no way acceptable for our country, which has the longest coastline in the Eastern Mediterranean, to try to be imprisoned in the Gulf of Antalya through a map called the Sevilla map, which has no bindings in international law. These freaky dissertations are under our rule and under our feet. Cyprus is one of our biggest, most important national issues due to our national ties, as well as Turkey's rights stemming from international law and founding agreements. Turkey correctly states that the Turkish Cypriot interests favour a two-state solution in which it can live freely and independently. He has made it clear to the world that we will not allow any of this to happen. We also want to say once again that we are pleased that Mr. Ersin Tatar had been elected President in favor of the two-state solution to the presidential election in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are in the middle of the Balkans, the Caucasus and the Middle East, the three most conflicting and disarrayed regions in the world throughout the world. It is undisputed that living in such an important geography requires great sacrifices. The Turkish nation, who have given many martyrs throughout history to be in this land, is still paying for the blood of this land today. The developments in the Middle East have led to the change of borders set by imperialist forces a hundred years ago, efforts to decomposition the countries of our own neighbours into micro-departmentes, eventually turning them into fires, millions of innocent people lost their lives in civil wars, and countries like Syria and Iraq have become uninhabitable. The lack of authority in these states led to terrorist organizations nesting in this land and boosting their power. In particular, a corridor of terror is being created by these terrorist organizations that have been established and established on the borders of our country. These organizations are setting up attacks on our citizens, causing our people to lose their lives, to be injured. These terror organizations were forced to fight across the border, with Operation Fırat Shield in 2016, about 3,000 DEASH-led terrorists were neutralized, while around 4,500 PKK/PYD-YPG terrorists were neutralized in 2018. Operation Peace Fountain, launched on October 9, 2019, has been neutralized as many as 1,200 PKK/YPG-PYD terrorists. With Operation Spring Shield, a major humanitarian drama was prevented, and the Turkish army and our martyrs were questioned. Turkey has used its right to self-defense under Article 51 of the United Nations Condition. Again, the PKK's terrorist organization has been hit with a series of Operation Claws in northern Iraq and with internal security operations within the borders of our country. Turkey successfully implements its strategy to destroy terrorism at its source, with its actions and local weapons and ammunition, which it has, and these achievements are heard worldwide. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been freed and freed from occupation by Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) in the attack launched by Armenia on September 27th, under the occupation of terrorist Armenia. On November 9th, the cease-fire declaration ended the conflicts, and Armenia suffered a major defeat. During the days of the conflict, Armenia committed war and humanity's crime by attacking civilian settlements, the cities of Azerbaijan, with missiles bearing 500 kilograms, one ton of harp caps. Eventually, the Azerbaijan army won a glorious victory with Turkey's great support. On this occasion, we wish God's mercy to our Azerbaijan soldiers who were killed in the conflict, and to our veterans a good life. The invasion, which has not been ended for 30 years, has been eliminated by the struggle of the Azerbaijan army. The Minsk Group, who worked in the Co-Chair of the United States, France and Russia, claiming to end the occupation through diplomatic means, has been much better understood in this process, when it is not neutral. It has been made clear, especially in France's attitude, that he ignored Azerbaijan's rights, and that he justified the invasion of Karabakh by Armenian terrorists. France remains hostile to Turkey and Islam on all grounds and does not observe any legal and moral principles while doing so. In France and other Western countries, Islam and Turkish hostility have reached dire points, causing Muslims and Turks worldwide to be violated, harassed, and even lost their lives. Turkey must be strong under any circumstances and show that justice and mercy can also be powerful in the world with a sense of right. Sadly, there is no other nation and no other state in the world with the character to show it. Turkey's 2023, 2053, 2071 vision has led to this goal with great determination. With national and domestic understanding, the Cumhur Alliance rules out all threats and threats leading to the Turkish state. The Cumhur Alliance is a national, moral and historical union that will take steps that will keep the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish nation alive and make our country a global force with the determination to pursue the goal of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk to rise above the murky civilizations. The hope of the Turkish nation, the Islamic world, and even all the oppressed is in Turkey, and in the Cumhur Alliance. The future, we believe, will belong to the Muslim Turkish nation and Turkey. With these thoughts, I say again that we support the proposed Budget and the Final Accounting Law, and I salute the Grand Assembly and the great Turkish nation.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0056par0086	Thank you. The first speaker on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group is the Co-Chair and İstanbul MP Mr. Pervin Buldan. Here you go, Mr. Buldan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0057par0091	Thank you. Mr. President, before I speak, I salute and cherish the General Assembly and our dear people who follow us. From here, I send my warm greetings to my beloved Figen Yüksekdağ, who is unlawfully held in prisons, and Selahatin Demirtaş, and Sebahat Tuncel, and Idris Baluken, and Gültan Kışanak, and all my friends whose names I can't name. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Members of parliament, budget rights are the right to speak and demand for the establishment of economic policies that surround the community and the establishment of control. This right is one of the most important social gains received by Magna Carta, the convention for Great Freedoms, dated 1215. But with the 2017 referendum, we are experiencing a process in which the right to the public's budget is transferred to the palace. Today, in the People's Assembly, we are discussing the budget of the AKP government, which does not belong to the people, but is taxed by the people, where Parliament can't even touch a comma. This budget is a budget that deepens poverty, poverty, unemployment, inequality, injustice; it is a budget that seeks to make a living, not for millions, but for elections and only for the sake of its own. Therefore, we say that palace power is the cause, and all these economic and political crises are the result. What we're going through today is the multiple crisis of the single system. In the system you have built instead of pluralism, instead of democracy, you have replaced fascism, the state of police instead of law, bans instead of freedoms, lies instead of truth, conflict instead of peace, bullets instead of bread, trustee instead of the chosen ones, parliamentary power, denial and resolution instead of resolution. When you come to power, we will fight for custody. You said, "You are now the new owner of custody." In this custody system, no one can speak of a peaceful power with a citizen. You are fighting with almost all parts of the community; you are fighting with women; you are fighting with the Istanbul Convention; you are fighting with ecology struggles; you are fighting with doctors, barrooms, rooms; you are fighting with mine workers; you are fighting with miners; you are fighting with farmers; you are fighting with farmers; you are fighting with the neighboring countries. No one is safe except those of you who are in your system, both Kurd and Alevi and Arab and Armenian and Süryani and Ezidi and Rum and Roman and Çerkek and Laz. You've made the country so private that in the past, unsubstantiated structures such as Susurity, organized within the state, no longer need to conceal itself in your power. These structures have gained the strength to intervene in politics with the courage it has taken from you. The way your alliance plays a role as a trustee is the result of your system. They're the shareholders of a regime that doesn't depend on democracy and the rule of law; they're the coupgers, the mobs, the gangs. Where there's no democracy, there's dark space. It's been nine years since the Roboski massacre. You said, "Roboski will not be lost in Ankara's dark depths." It's been nine years since you said that, and Roboski's still in the air. We see now that you're allied with these dark depths. Minister of Justice, let justice be done, and all hell breaks loose. Let the judges look at the file in front of you when they make a decision. These words are a clear confession that your judgment has decided not by law, but by looking between the two lips of power. It is a very real proof that your judgments have come out of the palace of Fivepepe, not from the palace of justice. It is not the law that has arrested tens of thousands of people, politicians, co-chairs, journalists, including Demirtaş, Yüksekdağ and Kavala, but the inquisitor mentality that calls them. In this country, it is a fact that those who once made an alliance with the coupgers who bombed the Assembly, those who winked at Syria and Turkey, who turned Turkey into a pool of blood, to opposition politicians. The statements about our friends are from the community prosecutors, and the warrant for your arrest is from your power. Your partnership continues in political cases. As a result, a former deputy of yours began to practice the same methods. He confessed. You discipline him because he told the truth, but you can't expel the truth with discipline. Look, the previous MYK of our party was staged by the same judgment. The groom, your prosecutor, went to the palace, received instructions and pressed the button, then was awarded a full-time job as a Supreme Court member. Now, we're looking at the same judgment, which clearly protects people from helicopters, tortures and judicial executions, and security guards who commit abuse and rape. The perpetrators, who were thrown out of the helicopter to kill Osman Shiban and Servet Turgut, were not brought to trial for days because they were in the protection of your government. The policeman who murdered Kemal Kurkut, who was killed in Diyarbakır, has been acquitted; justice has been shot once again, dear friends. The meaning of this decision is that the Kurds are free to shoot, so don't get caught up in the process. They know there's a power that says: Sherali Dereli, 61, and Ozcan Erbaş, a 16-year-old boy, were killed by soldiers. The security forces at your command have made Hakqari (Akahi) like Palestine. The killings don't stop because those who point guns at the public know very well that they won't be tried because of you. You don't hear the cries of justice in Roboski, Soma, Suruç, Ankara and Çoran massacres, but when the dollar is 8.5, you think of the law. We know that your idea of law is not the law of humanity, but the law of dollars. In such a process, your power has revealed the speech of reform. The results of your final judgment package are obvious. You made a reform that allowed them to re-criminalize by releasing the mafia, women's killers, women's rapes, children's rapes. It is clear that your new reform will not be any different. Your judgment has put a man under arrest for defaming the Mafia for criticizing the mafia system, and that is the reform mentality of power. In the last 20 days, 983 persons, mostly of our party members, have been taken into unlawful custody under orders from your government. Your police entered our party building in the middle of the night, leaving a note, saying, "We are here." We've never seen anyone break into an ISIS cell like this. Those who do so take courage from your Kurdish anti-Kurdish policies. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Those who target the third largest party of Turkey, the HDK, the DTK, the democratic institutions and civilians daily, the torturers, the method of killing people such as Gladio will know that this is the power that you lean on. And they'll let you down. Then you won't escape justice, and you'll pay for what you've done, one by one, before justice. And this power will surely, surely, one day, give justice to all their injustices, and nothing will remain in the dark. [[Applause from HDP rows]] My fellow lawmakers, as a result of an unlawful regime, Turkey faces the biggest crises. The AKP has said we will solve every problem with the presidency. Let's put the solution aside, they've become the biggest problem of all. You said there's no crisis. You said there's no crisis. You said there's the worst. You said there's no harm. You said there's no harm. You said there's no harm. You said there's no harm. You said there's no harm. You're constantly watching crisis and conflict politics to prolong your power's life, but that won't be enough to save you. From Libya to Syria, from Iraq to the Mediterranean, from Aegean to Azerbaijan, you followed a continuous conflicting policy. In Turkey, you tried to have a say in ISIS structures. We warned you here in 2011 as HDP; establish the right dialogue with the peoples of Northern Syria, develop a peaceful policy, so that both Syria and Turkey would open the way for democratic solutions, but you ignored our warnings, didn't take into account the determination and power of the Kurdish people, you went and invested in gangs. The result is that you went to make a king in Damascus, but the people in Kobani said to you. Your ISIS queens didn't work. You've lost Syrian chess. Every day, you operate on the operation against HDP to avenge Rojava. You think you can't break the power of the HDP, you can talk them out of democratic politics, but you're so wrong, dozens of governments have come and gone who want to purge our democratic fighting tradition. They've all been wiped out one by one, but we've grown bigger and stronger. We are no longer able to fit into the prisons or into the fields. We don't run out of time, we don't run out of time, we don't breathe through torture, we don't breathe through pressure. You've come in all kinds of difficult ways, but you can't stop the public flood, you can't. You're temporary, but we'll still be here. And as long as it's us, neither the voice of peace will be silenced nor will we be able to cover the truth, nor will we allow a political life without a woman, nor will we allow an inequal life. The language of truth, the defender of justice, we will continue to be the founding force of a free life, and we will do it, and we will do it, and we will do it, and we will do it. Yes, lawmakers, every time this government is in a jam, it resorts to three ways: fake reform, news of natural gas and membership in the European Union. The European Union came to your mind again, where we see our future. You started to say, You don't have a future. So what have you done so far to meet the criteria of the European Union? For example, is a trustee appointed to replace the chosen ones in Brussels? Are opposition politicians arrested in Switzerland? Do people get thrown out of helicopters in Denmark? Are people shot with fighter planes on the border in Italy? Does the judgment in Strasbourg decide by the direction of the politicians? You have all this. You've replaced the European Union criteria with court criteria, so you can't even cross the edge of the European Union, let alone membership. Those before you who have promised and failed to meet the needs of the European Union will be almost where you're going right now. A country where the state of law, democracy, freedom of thought, even an ancestor is arrested, has no international dignity, dear friends. Where there's no democracy, there's no economic stability. Today, the economy has collapsed because we destroyed democracy. You have produced no added value during your rule. You sold factories, you sold the country's resources, you sold the land, you finished agriculture and livestock. Eighteen years of power is full of factories you sell, not your ration card. It's your policies that cause people's poverty, unemployment, hunger. There's no need to go too far, go down to the Kızılay. Look, you can't meet one of our people with hope in their eyes, because you've finished hope. People are no longer able to imagine, and you've taken away people's dreams. Today, you have condemned millions of people to hunger for a minimum wage, hundreds of thousands of Turkish Cypriots. You took away people's jobs, their bread. You stole the future of millions of college graduates. Every college graduate, there is no such thing as finding a job. You have left the young people who have been taught by poor families to work so hard, you have led them to despair. You've made the torpedo the only criteria in public admissions, not the merit. You've linked hiring to your party agencies, congregations, cults. You've turned your organizations into IKUR. You have ruined workers, pensioners, merchants, manufacturers, and sentenced the IIT people who are waiting for retirement to retire in the grave. Go, look in a grocery store, dear lawmakers, the most acquired product is onions, potatoes, bulchers, pasta; you can't get people past butchers, you can't get a kilo of meat in their house. While enriching your power, your environment, your allies, you have made the people even poorer. When people couldn't even pay their rent, electricity, water bills, you spent people's resources on your winter, summer, flying palaces. You've wasted people's taxes on war and conflict. Millions of people are fighting for their lives under the hunger line, while your palace spends an entire day at $8.6 million, spending a month's wages on the minimum wage in one day in your palace. While the people were barely taking the bread, you paid the $3.3 billion from Qatar, a month's salary of 1.5 million minimum wage. No matter how people live, as long as your reputation does not fail, your alliance with Qatar-satar remains intact. You're saying economics has grown, national revenues have increased. If the economy has grown, why is the minimum wage still $2,300, and why isn't it $4,000, and why are we asking here? Either your growth numbers are unrealistic or you're getting the growing part yourself, and the shrinking part is you're getting the workman, the laborer. You paid 17 million liras to your subsidiary company, Genghise, for a 19,000-dollar job in construction of a tunnel. As for the worker, as for the worker, there is no source. You say, "No, but when it comes to your followers, the shop is yours." (APPLAUSE) The waste of the palace is a cause, and the minimum wage under the hunger line is a consequence, my dear friends. Your presidential government system is a wasteful system and is the main reason for poverty. Even in the pandemic disaster, you left the people alone with their own fate. All over the world, governments financed and supported their own people, and instead of helping them, you gave people IBAN and raised money. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) And you've loaned people loans. You even used the virus as an opportunity. No matter how you look at it, it's embarrassing. Even in the epidemic, you didn't think about human life, you thought about your runt, your subsidiary companies. When you couldn't even deliver a mask, you made the Canal Istanbul tender. Yes, you have no right to be a police state, but when it comes to becoming a social state, we've seen a state and a government that says, "Take care of yourself." You've even hidden the size of the plague. We're almost out of funeral homes because of Covid. Tens of thousands of people fall into the grip of this disease every day, looking for empty stretchers at emergency doors, desperately waiting for an empty bed in front of hospitals to be treated. The reason the plague has caused this heavy damage is because you keep hiding the truth. You have targeted the Medical Corps, physicians, scientists who have uncovered the truth, and you have declared it a terrorist. You didn't fight the virus, you fought the truth. Of course, this epidemic will pass, but what you've done, what you've done to the public will never be forgotten. The dying souls, every day, will never be forgotten the cries of the physicians, who said, "We are afflicted with death." If I don't go to work, I'll starve." "The people's despair will never be forgotten. Your scheme will kill me, not the virus." The voice of the citizen will never be erased from memory. [[Applause from HDP rows]] My fellow lawmakers, the most important breaking point in national state politics on both the Middle East and Turkey today is the Kurdish problem. Once again, the president did not have a Kurdish problem, we solved it. He embraced the language of denial politics. Eyes that see, for the hearing ears, once again, we want to say that there is a Kurdish problem, a historical problem. The Kurdish problem is that the villages that have been burned down, the millions that have been emigrated, the prisons built, the banned Kurdish, the decrees written on the Parliamentary records, the torture written everywhere, the Roboski (registered to the murder of Kemal Kurkut), the acquittal of Tahir Elçi's body on the ground, the hanging glances of Ceylan Önkol and Uğur Kaymaz. The Kurdish problem is the destroyed tomb. The Kurdish problem is a 100-year appeal to Kurdish policy denial. The Kurdish problem is that Kurds can't live their own identities equally and freely. The Kurdish people today do not feel safe in Turkey because of the Kurdish hostility raised by the power and break every day in the will to live together. The state mind needs to see this truth well. The Kurdish problem is not just a problem of Kurds and HDP (HDP); it is a common problem of all political parties, parliament, citizens, civil society, especially the state. Today, democratic Kurdish politics demonstrates an important will for the immediate solution to the Kurdish problem, which has been transformed into a Gordion node due to unresolvedness. This will is the development of democratic politics on the basis of democratic reconciliation, free politics and universal law, and the adoption of the democratic constitutional alliance in universal law. The dialogue and negotiation process, conducted between 2013 and 1515, was historically significant for the creation of a new democratic paradigm, but the AKP squandered the process for the sake of presidential ambitions; it chose the presidency of one man over the peace demand of millions. I would like to take this opportunity to record Mr. Ocalan's message that Mr. Ocalan shared with the public on August 7, 2019. Let's solve the Kurdish problem. In a week, I'll eliminate the conflict situation, the possibility. I solve it, I trust myself, I am ready for a solution, but the state and the state must do what is necessary. We saw once again that you wanted to cut the Kurdish problem between isolation and trustee scissors. Historical experiences also show that if you don't solve the Kurdish problem, the Kurdish problem will solve and solve you. I'd especially like to address the state's mind here: to give up isolation law and darkness as soon as possible. Thousands of prisoners in prisons today have begun their hunger strike to end the isolation; let this unlawfulness end, dear friends. If you do not open the doors of the Imralı to dialogue and negotiations, you will continue to be dependent on the door of Moscow, Washington, Europe, international forces, Qatar capital. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) The international lockdown on you will not be removed. With isolation, you must accept the fact that you cannot stop the democratic progress of the Kurdish people. Today, the Kurdish people are the democratic leading force of radical change in all the lands in which they live; the force of peace and freedom; therefore, they are among the respectable peoples of the world. While you 1925, 38, 80, 90, are trying to revive the dark spirit of the people, the Kurdish people are living a new century in which they have created their own time. You will never be able to break and change the course of history. And as you run away from the solution, you won't be able to get away with it. Let me make this clear: the Kurdish problem will first solve your power and create the change of power, and then the solution will be opened. With social alliances, democracy alliances, civil society alliances and Kurdish problems and democracy issues will be resolved simultaneously. As was yesterday and tomorrow, the HDP, which is ready and favoured the solution, will continue to be the leading and executive of the constitutional democratic solution. As long as the HDP exists, the solution will always be clear. My fellow lawmakers, budgets are one of the key tools to reduce gender inequality and to develop policies for strengthening women. The lack of budgets to respect gender equality deepens the inequality. This budget envisions more labour exploitation, more poverty, more deprivation for women, not for women in the process of economic crisis and pandemics, but for women who are trying to maintain and improve women's situation. We never accept that women are left to face unemployment, hunger, poverty, exploitation of women's labor, that women should be left to much heavier challenges by appointing trustees to our co-chair municipalities. For us, co-chairing is life, and we don't give up on life. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Once again, we would like to point out that we will continue to fight for the distribution of public resources sensitive to gender, and for the rescheduling of public services to develop effective solutions to women's problems. We will continue to raise our voices against the budget of workers, workers, workers, women's sweats, resources stolen from their table, and war. We will continue to promote our fight on all democratic grounds to protect women from violence, reduce gender inequality, the Istanbul Convention on gender inequality, and the effective implementation of Law 6284. We promise all the women from here.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0058par0135	Mr. Buldan, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0057par0136	Dear people, dear lawmakers, this dark process that we're going through should never lead anyone into despair and pessimism. Our citizens don't have to pay the heavy cost of this government, they don't have to endure the bitter prescription. It's not the people who have to pay the bill, it's the power. Of course there is a way out of this collapse, which is radical, democratic change. The crisis caused by this system that connects the future of 82 million to the future of one man is only possible with a change of power. The HDP idea opened the way for this change on June 7th and March 31st. The point is that we can save the people from this collapse without any major damage. To do that, we have to build the new and the common future together. See, in the 100th year, the will and control powers of the parliamentary system, where public sovereignty was represented, were largely eliminated by this power. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It is clear that their next goal is to complete the republic's liquidation process in 2023, in its 100th year. In the end, it must not be forgotten that the monogamous structure of this one-man system, the non-democratic, pluralistic republic. Dear friends, dear fellow lawmakers, for this reason, we make our call for early elections here once again and repeat: "Early elections." We call them "Early elections." And we say, "Let's go to the people." I would like to emphasize once again that those who run politics for democracy must be as brave, determined and clear as a citizen on the street. Yes, as I finish my words, I would especially like to finish by saying that in the face of those who face the ancient peoples of this country, their beliefs, their women, their young peoples, our peoples... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we have the power to live through democracy and the spring of freedom, we have sight, we have faith, we have determination. With our faith in the good and bright days, I salute and thank you once again.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0059par0146	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0060par0147	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Buldan has also expressed strong criticism of your anti-Kurdish policies. If you'd like, I'll take my call.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0059par0148	Let's do this, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0060par0149	Aye.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0059par0150	On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, the second speaker is Co-Chair and Mardin MP Mithat Sancar. Here you go, Mr. Sancar. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0061par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs and our dear people who follow us, I salute you with love and reverence. I would like to speak under the roof of the democratic and pluralist parliament of a country that has solved a lot of its problems here today and say what's missing in a positive picture, but unfortunately that's not the case. I told you earlier in my speech that in the 100th year, this Parliament is at its weakest, and in the name of democracy, we face new losses every day, new destructions in the name of freedom. Yeah, we got a lot of problems. We also know that many of our problems have roots in the past, but we have to stress the important areas of problems that have taken on new dimensions of this period. On this journey, even if I try to count the major problems that we've had in the 100-year journey to Parliament and in the history of the republic coming up to 100 years, it's a long list. I'd still like to bring some to your attention: yes, in the first place, the Kurdish issue, of course, the Alevi problem, the rule of law and the injustice issues, the falsification of gangs within the state, the changing focus of custody, social dissolution and polarization, racism and discrimination, the problem of gender equality, the problem of deep labor exploitation, poverty and inequality, the destruction of the corruption, the destruction of war policies, nature and the environment. These problems have become almost hostage to society by folding into 2021. With the authoritarian government in power, all these political, social and economic problems have become a deep crisis, leaving our people breathless. The ruling coalition is either ignoring these areas of trouble and crises or trying to make them forget by greater crises, covering them with greater crises. But we know that the night conceals the world, but brings out the universe. Dear MPs, dear people, I've said that many of the problems are permanent. Budget talks coincide with the end of the year; the end of the year is the period of accounting. Of course, we're going to do a year's accounting first, but just because we're satisfied with a year isn't enough for us to explain problems, to make solution proposals healthy, and we have to go back further. At the beginning of the most important questions of perpetuity comes a sense of citizenship. The idea of citizenship is based on a hundred years of understanding, mission emphasis and inequality. We read this in the words of Mehmet Emin in 1926 in the words of the Malumat-i Vataniyayah: "The rights of the citizens are for the sake of their duties," he says. It's the idea of an acceptable citizen who requires a whole public act, who leans on the language of loyalty and obedience. Sadly, today we have one of the saddest examples of those who were considered as no one of a period who came and were able to enter the same libas with enthusiasm and even ambition. Hence, the problems are getting heavier, deeper, and more likely to lead to a dead end. For example, the Kurdish problem; the president, the party president, the other day he said there was no Kurdish problem in this country; we solved the Kurdish problem. He has a Kurdish problem. We know when he says it's his problem. So we figured it out. So we're looking at what he's talking about. For example, if I now speak Kurdish in the minutes of the Assembly, which we speak under its roof, it will appear as an unknown language in the transcripts.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0062par0159	He'll write even if you speak Arabic.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0061par0160	Mr. Mush would be much better off if he explained why he would become an unknown language. (APPLAUSE) Well, why? I know if I speak Arabic, it'll go in Arabic, I've seen it before. That adds up to the problem, Mr. Mush. I didn't want to give you an answer, but I think it would be better if you didn't pick on me. And I'm not gonna answer any more taunts. If I speak English, it'll go in English, but it doesn't go in Kurdish. Is there any more clear evidence to indicate the existence of the Kurdish problem and the location of the government in the Kurdish issue? Dear friends, again, the same President was able to use the concept of Kurdistan on this stand five years ago, and now, when you use this word, you are being sued, and the Parliament is being disciplined. I've watched the word "Kurdistan" in budget debates, Kurdish provinces, ruling MPs who don't even accept the words of Kurdish geography, who don't even tolerate them. Is this not denial (of the truth)? The Kurdish problem is a denial problem, isn't it? Dear MPs, there are other examples, for example, from textbooks, where the word "Kürt" is deleted. But when you delete the word Kurdish from textbooks, you don't erase Kurds from life, you don't take the Kurdish problem out of fact, you just deepen problems. Yes, it is possible to increase samples from the banned Kurdish theatre games to the people who were attacked because they spoke Kurdish, but I think that's enough. So, local democracy, which is essential to the solution, has settled in this country, and the Kurdish problem has been resolved? No, it was the opposite of power. Instead of placing local democracy, he even purged the existing scraps and did them with trustee policies. Today, the word "absoluteness" is considered to be a major sin. If the prosecutors see fit and receive instructions, they're suing only for using this word. However, the 1921 Constitution, the founding norm of the state of Turkey, was built on the principle of probability. Where we came from a hundred years later, yes, I present to the attention of our people. Just him? Don't those who jump up and down when we say the word "compromise" know that this state is on the side of the European Convention on Autonomity? This condition considers autonomy a right, and it says: "The strengthening of local governments, the defending of autonomy, is the basic requirement for the establishment of a European (e.g. the principles of governance and democracy) based on the principles of governance and democracy. " Don't call it autonomy, accept it as strengthening the principle of governance under local democracy, and let's discuss it. As an opportunity for this country to resolve both the Kurdish problem and the democracy problem, let us make sure that local democracy is on the agenda, because it is not only a matter of appointing trustees to Kurdish municipalities; it also comes to the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, Ankara, İzmir Metropolitan municipalities, in the form of constant intervention in other municipalities held by the opposition, with preparations and actions. So local democracy, yes, has a key importance in resolving the Kurdish problem, but also in solving Turkey's democracy problem. We're basically saying that Turkey's Kurdish problem and democracy are intertwined, and only together we can solve them in form, in the form of a democratic republic. Dear lawmakers, our dear people, this power, in short, has increased any pressure on Kurds in prison, in prison, in torture, in death, while outside, it is the Syrian policy to make sure that the Kurds don't get the slightest gain. This fundamental approach to the Kurdish problem and the Kurdish problem is the main reason for the resolution of power, which has been full of examples for the past 40 years. If you approach the Kurdish problem like this, you will fail and you will surely be resolved in the problem of democracy. Right now, that's what this power is going through, precious MPs. The AKP has now fallen behind even the 12 September junta constitution, with its goal and its promise to change the Constitution, and today it is considered a crime to even discuss the Constitution. He gained the support of the masses, promising the democracy our people have longed for for for for decades, becoming the architect of practices and regulations that fall behind the single party period and coup governments. Those who once held their fair order in their tongue have now created an unjust order from top to bottom and boast about it. Turkey has built the largest regime of favours and capital transfers in its history; it has become the center of a plundering policy, with the hands of five subsidiary companies where public resources have been transferred, where the most state tenders in the world are being pursued. That's a fair order? Wouldn't it take an accounting to come from fair order to this point of view, a need to face it? If she doesn't, we'll have to do it together, along with all the parts of this community that feel this need. It's up to us to stop this. Turkey has fixed its position among the top five countries in the OECD countries, where revenue inequality is densest. According to Transparency International, in 2001, the total capital ownership rate of the poor in the country was 33 per cent, while in 2018 the rate dropped to 18 per cent. The remaining 82% of the capital was earmarked for a handful of rich people. Increased security and war policies have been spent every year to transform the budget, not to the well-being and freedom of the people, but to transform the continuation of power into a ceberut security device to secure its stay. The future of this country is mortgaged by these policies. The future of a country is children and young people. Today it's beer instead of merit. Youths are tired of life with the interference, the torpedoes, and so on, and are now being made to give up looking for hope in this country. Yes, even the most popular artists in the country have to go abroad to sing their songs freely. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has been abandoned to the depression of these increasingly deepening political, social and economic problems. The main source of these multi-crisis-related crises is the political field. Today, their cover is the presidential government system. The presidential government system is another name for making the state of emergency permanent in the country; it's the name of arbitrary, it's the name of liquidating democracy, it's the name of authoritarianism, it's the name of assigning to the allies, and it's one of the most important reasons to lead the country to disaster. [[Applause from HDP rows]] With the implementation of the new government system, Turkey has stepped into a very heavy economic crisis. However, in campaigns prior to the 2017 referendum, the ruling spokesman introduced this new arrangement as a system to fly Turkey. It was the opposite, and Turkey was driven to the most severe economic crisis in its history, dear friends. In Turkey's budget, which we face today, 17 per cent of security spending, they explain it with what: security needs. But all of this has nothing to do with a real safety debate, precious lawmakers. The goal of power is essentially an internal conflict of armed force, which I strongly recommend to all democratic forces to be carefully monitored. What does a government do looking for the true security of Turkey? It reduces the number of enemies, the odds of conflict, the risk of war. However, this government's policies, even its existence, are based on increasing the dynamics of conflict both inside and outside, and have these consequences. Every force outside and every citizen inside is coded as a potential enemy. The domestic politics that this paranoia shapes both maintains permanent insecurity in the community, and the state is putting up with it, legitimizing more resources for internal security and defence, allocation of more people, inflating defence and security budgets. Yes, Eisenhower had a saying or a saying in his famous farewell speech in 1965, and I'd like to remind him of that. He says, "Let him not pursue it, let him not pursue it; we must beware that the military, the test complex, will have an illegal impact on the government boards." Only an alert and knowledgeable community of citizens can be compelled to operate the enormous testing and military defense machine in harmony with our peaceful methods and goals. We can question Eisenhower's reasons for saying these things -- not in particular -- and of course, we can discuss the consequences of his policies here -- not in particular -- but as a person at the head of this machine -- but as a person, as the head of this machine, we must take it seriously. This is what's happening in Turkey today, so they're constantly looking for new battlefields, and they're getting more tension inside, because the military, the test complex that's created needs to be sustained, and it's only possible with security, warrior, warrior, polarizing, enemy creative policies. We recommend the term, concept, doctrine of human security, against the use of public safety in this way. I'm not going to go on and on about what human safety means -- the process is going down -- but this concept was defined in detail in the Human Development Report, published in 1994 by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), counting human safety; economic security, food safety, health safety, environmental security, personal security, social security, political security -- all of these have subsections. If you follow them, based on your policies, you will no longer need to search for enemies inside, create new conflicts outside, or create new ones. This is exactly the sense of security that we offer to our people, to this country, and it has to do with the social state and other areas, with human rights, with the environment and with nature. There's no way I'm telling this here anymore, it's limited time. Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers and dear people, this budget is a budget for war, support and court, not the public. When you look at the choices made, they all appear as conscious choices. For example, the problems of millions of KYK debtors can be removed; millions of non-employees can be given direct income support to millions of unemployed citizens; the minimum wage can be made free of tax, and 4000 euros can be made available if the funds are changed; it can be made available to thousands of dollars per day; support can be raised from the budget; electricity, water, natural gas, internet; support can be extended to farmers who are bent by rising diesel and input prices; it is possible to be paid directly for thousands of jobs due to their growing loans in the pandemic period; it is possible to be paid directly for thousands of loans. Mr. President, the valued MPs are the resources of this country, the resources of this nation, which are earmarked to the ministries. Why do ministries get funding? For example, why would the Home Office be paid? To ensure our safety and freedom, right? However, we know that even opposition leaders have no security, and the answer to them is constant denial, abstract denial. Threats fly every day. Today, is this government's Internal Affairs budget being used as spending pencils in an interpersonal relationship with those who seek illegitimate jobs? We want an answer to that question. Why is it given to the Home Office? To prevent crime. We called it, but the tortures have taken hold of him. From zero tolerance to torture -- my dear Co-Chair just counted the samples -- we've come to countless tortures, and they're being tried to be exonerated with the Minister's hand, the Minister's mouth. As soon as public officials are involved in sexual assault charges, we're looking at major disgraces covered in the moment the security guards are involved. Reports of such barbaric, brutal sexual assault came yesterday that what the governorships did was in a pattern of denial, but what should be done is follow them to the end, question them, and illumination, precious MPs. Why would the Ministry of Health have a budget? To protect the public's health. But why should we pay the public's money by mistransferring the data, by deceiving the public, by preventing the health measures from taking place, by endangering the well-being of our own people? Why are we giving the Health Department budget to an understanding that doesn't protect the medics, that doesn't respect the workers' efforts, that threatens the medics and their organizations? In a country where we'll be in charge, these resources will be earmarked to the opposite. What we're watching here is, on the contrary, world school, we're going to sit this world school on its feet. This is our promise to our people, our promise, dear friends. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Look, even in the fight against this epidemic, false data transfers are explained by national security, by national security. I'd like to give a friendly warning to all democratic forces that whenever this government uses the concepts of public security, national security, national interest, stop, and question it, because after that there will be numerous antidemocratic practices, countless violations of rights, countless damage and destructions. So, please, let's not get behind the government's public safety, national security stories, deceptions. On the contrary, what you call national interest is not determined by a person, but by a public debate in democratic parliaments; that is one of the basic needs of democracy. In the past, those who complained that the National Security Council had defined national interests and national security, left them to one person today. It's up to us, yes, to come up with the common interests of this community by arguing on democratic ground and canals, not by sticking to the national security and national interests of power, valued lawmakers. And finally, there are a lot of examples, but let me finish the examples by reminiscing about two other ministries. For example, why is the Ministry of Culture being funded, given resources? The Ministry of Culture shall preserve culture, preserve cultural assets, ensure that the cultures living in this country grow equally. The source must be transferred, whereas it is done the opposite; these resources come out of our pocket as spending on assimilation and denial policies. The Kurdish policy of destroying the culture of these people is motivated by taxes from the pockets of Alevi (Ali) and from the pockets of other peoples. What kind of thing would that be? It shouldn't be. The Democratic Republic is our goal, none of this will happen in the democratic republic. We want the Ministry of Culture to support culture, to support cultural institutions, to support art institutions, but those theaters and arts institutions that have closed the pandeminium have no limits, precious MPs. Yesterday, for example, the Ankara Art Theatre had to leave its building on December 6, 1963. He served in that building for 58 years, not for a generation, but for the memory of generations and a city, a land's hundred-laden institution can no longer use it because it can't pay its debts. I'm not going to go on and on about what AST is, but it's a big part of my story. We came to college in 80, where we met the theatre, where we knew the Rana Jabbar, where we saw many beautiful plays. One of them, the Southern woman, is the other. This is where we've seen countless actors take their first scene, and this theater is now leaving that building, where it operates for 58 years during this period of power. It is our duty to send a message of greetings and solidarity to the AST workers from here, dear friends. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Why is there a budget for the Head of Religious Affairs? Because we want the President of Religious Affairs to be equal to the beliefs, equal to the beliefs; that's what's supposed to happen when we build the democratic republic, but that's not what's going to happen now.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0063par0187	Here you go, Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0061par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. In this country, the belief of Alevis, who have found millions in numbers, has been under pressure for years; they have been exposed to segregating policies, racist policies. Marking the homes of Alevis at times or every day is considered a common case, and they are not given any status as their place of worship. It's also denied that status is not given, it's denied its assets, and it's considered perfectly normal to attack these institutions, where security forces can raid them. We will not live in the democratic republic where we will build such a thing, our dear people. Yes, let's repeat that what we need as we come to the end is the democratic republic, if the republic has been...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0064par0192	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0061par0193	...if we can manage to face the ongoing problems, the wrong practices, and their shortcomings, we will be able to change this power in the elections with the power of the people, which has caused the greatest destruction to the Republic and democracy. If we can't do this, if we can't get the Republic to meet democracy, believe me, we won't be talking about democracy without a scrap of it, and maybe there won't be any more of the Republic at the latest in 2023. Now, for that, we need a confrontation. I'm going to tell you a film and a story so I can tell you about this confrontation. If Mr. President connects immediately, then I'll be done in two minutes...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0064par0195	I gave you a plus 2.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0061par0196	I'll be able to tell you without being cut off.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0064par0198	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0061par0199	Okay. The film is a film by Luis Bunuel, known in Turkish as the Destroyer Angel. A group of rich and famous people gather at a society friend's house for a dinner party. It's time for them to leave home when their fancy meal is over, but for some reason, no one can leave the house. Each of them makes a different excuse to spend the night at home, and no one actually has a logical reason. Yeah, they finally spent the night at home, but the next day the same thing happens, no one wants to go out, they don't think they can go out, they're caught in some sort of collective neurosis. Actually, there's no reason why they can't get out, but they can't. This vicious cycle cannot be broken. The situation at home, after a while... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm just finishing up.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0065par0203	Okay.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0061par0204	I'm not going to tell you all about the movie anyway, so I'm sure the precious MPs will be watching it. The situation at home is soon noticed by the outside world, but no one can enter the garden of the house and help. There's no logical reason, but they're inside. After a while, the conditions get heavy and they start eating each other. Death, suicide, fighting, a stream of shitty time begins. Yeah, it's a big bruise and a big one. They go out after a while, they think it's over, but the same group goes to church, and the same thing happens in church. Why did I tell you that, dear lawmakers? Turkey can't get out of its system because of its collective neuroses. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One minute, Mr. President, one final minute.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0066par0209	It's five minutes, so let's finish, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0061par0210	This vicious cycle became a propeller of these wheels during this period of power, and it began to grind society. Now, a reflection of collective neurosis was paranoia -- the threat of communism at one time, the danger of law another period, now there are terrorists everywhere, traitors everywhere. Such a country cannot survive the fate of the Destroyer Angel. What we need to do is break this vicious cycle, this devastating cycle. Yes, we invite all the people and parts of this country to come together to make a new start and to make an honorable life, together, from democracy, peace, labor, justice, equality, freedom, and nature. This invitation is ours.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0067par0216	My dear friends, Mr. Sancar had a statement here about our Parliamentary Presidency and the Service of Records. I think there's something wrong with the information, and I want to fix it. First of all, as a principle, both the General Assembly and the commissions are being held in Turkish. When a language is used outside of Turkish -- it can be Kurdish, it can be English, it can be Arabic, it can be French -- it is not written as an unknown language, no matter what language it is. There's been dozens of motions for this, and we're giving them all the same answers, but it's been an opportunity, so I'd like to explain that. The unknown language is not written for any language, but when a language is used outside of Turkish is used here -- there is a writing guide -- as a footnote in this department/parts, a non-English word/word was mentioned by the speaker. Thus, for no language, the unknown language is not used. So I can fix this on this occasion. That's what we've been doing in Congress for 12 years.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0061par0218	In that case, let me make a statement in one sentence.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0067par0219	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0061par0222	Yes, I know that the anonymous language statement is in the transcripts, so I'll correct it if I'm wrong.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0067par0223	No.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0061par0224	But it's either a sign or an indistinguishable language...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0067par0225	No, no, none of that.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0068par0226	I do.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0069par0227	I do.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0070par0228	I do.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0071par0229	Neither.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0069par0230	We'll show you some examples.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0071par0231	No.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0072par0232	Let's look at examples of this later. It's impossible to connect this discussion here, but here's an example I've had...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0071par0233	No, starting from 2008, our reports are used in what I say -- the committee and the General Assembly -- in terms of non-English words.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0072par0234	Mr. President, let me share an experience I've had: one of my speeches included an Arabic passage. And then I got the transcripts, and that Arabic passage was written in the exact same way in Turkish letters. It's not the same when spoken in Kurdish, so I just gave that example.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0071par0237	Mr. Sancar, as you know, the reports are kept raw first, then given the final form and become official. Our friends may have taken notes in raw reports -- let me put it this way -- but there's no expression of the unknown language in the official reports, the approved transcripts. What is used for all languages except Turkish is a note in the form of words other than Turkish. There's no x. (x) You're going to mix it there; there's a sign there used to refer to footnotes because it's going to be a footnote; it's a sign used to refer to footnotes about this part. Thank you. Yes, Mr. Bostanci...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0073par0242	Mr. President, thank you very much. I'm going to have a very short supply. We object to Mr. Buldan's speech for us, which is probably not foreign to the House, which I would call anonymous, and we don't agree in any way. We have a lot of reasons for that. I'd really like to explain all of this in a very detailed way, but I'll tell you this: you're free to hit Kurd, your anti-Kurdish policies. It's not true and it's for this country, and it's not the right strategy and politics for geography that we're part of.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0074par0244	That's an understatement.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0073par0245	If you present the matter as a matter of human rights and if you put it that way, if you walk on that kind of politics, there's no doubt that more people can hear your voice, but this language, which is based on ethnic identity...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0075par0247	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0073par0248	Excuse me. As far as I'm concerned, it's definitely not connected to ethnic identity, but there's a political narrative behind it. Because the HDP says it's the party of Turkey, but when you look at your language, you don't count the Turks who voted for you as Turks, and when you look at your language, you don't consider the Kurds at other parties as Kurds. I assure you, that's what it means as a result. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I think it would be a more appropriate approach for both this geography and the modern world to address the issue in terms of human rights. But why are you talking like that? The analysis of this is very separate; it's very separate, but it's not going to allow you to solve events with the misty glasses of such an exaggerated ideological language.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0076par0252	It's not an ideological speech, it's all the facts, Mr. Bostanci; we told them what happened.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0073par0253	Our friends, sir, some problems, look...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0077par0254	Guys, please don't talk to me.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0076par0255	We told them what happened.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0077par0256	Let's do it, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0078par0257	There may be some problems you object to, but I assure you, Turkey has been fighting the PKK for 40 years. We've never once heard you object to this terror, which is the main problem of the Kurdish issue. We've never really heard of it. (AC PARTY) Because I think a political terror center with a whole face on the side of democratic politics should be far away from the language and attitude of an organization that has made the core, believe me. Our friends will give us more details.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0077par0258	Sure, there's time.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0078par0259	Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0077par0260	Thank you. Mr. Altay, do you have a request?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0079par0262	No, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0077par0263	No. Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0080par0266	Thank you, Mr. President. We listened to Mr. Bostanci's objections, of course. Besides, we wouldn't expect Mr. Buldan, our co-Chair, to attend the speech, or we would be in different places right now, where we would be in different places in terms of solving the problem. Now, Mr. Bostanci, of course, it's impossible for us to continue and finish this polemic here, but I'd like to make a few points for the record. Unfortunately, from the public inspectorship to the Islamic Plan, from the period of the State of Emergency and the perpetrator to your regime of trustees today, there is a Kurdish problem, unresolved, and there is no Kurdish problem anymore, I solved it. Those who say, actually deny the problem and are implementing an assimilation policy. Now, we're talking about a historical period, and it's not just about today, and you know it.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0081par0271	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0080par0272	Yes, sir. So, for example, if we lived in a country where modern democracy exists, if we lived in a country where universal human rights and freedoms can be used, if we lived in a country with the rule of law, the issue could be handled in terms of human rights, what you're saying about that is true, but we don't live in a country like that, and unfortunately, you see that, for some reason, these human rights violations are happening to our Kurdish citizens. The number of examples, the shooting of the public, the shooting of the young, the shooting of the children, the torture, the abuse, and the rejection of all of this, all of the operations against us, detentions, arrests... and you have declared the regime of trustees, and in fact, you have eliminated the right to choose and choose from the people of the region. When we look at all of this, it's important to remember that we're facing this situation. And I'll remind you of one last thing. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One last sentence, sir, if I may.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0082par0277	Let's finish, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0080par0278	Thank you. I'd like to remind you that if only you'd come out and said those words out loud then: The G20 Leaders Summit was held in Osaka, then Trump held a press conference. They asked me a question, and the answer to that question was, "President Erdogan is a tough nut, but I can get by with him." Maybe that's a bad thing, but I think that's a good thing, because, frankly, everyone knows that he has a problem with Kurds. He had an army of 65,000 at the border, and he was going to wipe out the Kurds who helped us against ISIS. I called him and asked him not to do it -- I think the Kurds are his or Turkey's natural enemy -- and he didn't do it. Sir, for what I'm saying now, when Trump says these words, the Kurts are not our natural enemy, they're our lungs. Unfortunately, we didn't hear his explanation from power, we didn't hear it from power.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0082par0282	Dear friends, Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0083par0283	Mr. President, there's no need to explain. The presence of power has already submitted to Trump. The presence of power and the social group Trump.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0082par0284	Trump's gone, over. [[Smiles from CHP and HDP rows]] Wait a minute...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0083par0287	What saddens me is that Mr. Saruhan Oluç gave a footnote from Mr. Trump, who looked at and analyzed the Middle East under the American strategy. That's what upsets me. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0082par0293	Dear friends, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, President-General and İzmir MP Kemal Kilicdaroğlu will speak. Here you are, Mr. Kilicdaroglu. [[Standing ovations from CHP rows, applause from good parties]] Your time is 60 minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0084par0297	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with the warmest of love. Dear citizens who watch us at the head of television, dear young people who watch us on social media accounts, respected citizens who listen to us at their radio station, I send you all my love, respect, and conversation on behalf of the Republican People's Party. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, the outbreak of Covid-19 was mentioned, and it was about success. Who does the success belong to? It belongs to the paramedics. Where do the paramedics do their duty? He does it in hospitals. Who are the paramedics? They're from medical schools where the Republic raises the most successful students. Any success? Success. Did they work 24 hours? They worked for 24 hours; they didn't even see their children, they couldn't even go and see their families, they couldn't talk. So, what did we do with the paramedics' success? We all clapped together. They were successful. So who sent the patients in front of the paramedics, who didn't take precautions? Who gave the citizens of the Republic of Turkey false information, and who gave them incomplete information? I've told you over and over again, a state doesn't lie to a respected citizen. You didn't give me the right information. They insisted, the Union of Turkish Medical Medicines said the death toll was much greater. You almost lynched the Turkish Medical Corps. What happened? Who told the truth? The Turkish Medical Association. Where have we reached? The political institution, which has to take precautions to prevent the outbreak, is the health institution that works to cure the patient. The health institution did its part; the political institution released it. Why didn't you take precautions? On what grounds did you not take precautions? On what grounds did you hold meetings? On what grounds did you gather the citizens and throw tea at them? On what grounds did the plague reach such size, and on what grounds did we become first in Europe? On what grounds? I need someone, a servant of God, to tell me, for what reason? Don't let the doctors, the paramedics, take credit for their success. They are the light people of this country, no matter what anyone says. They worked 24 hours a day. We told them... none of the paramedics are from the AK PARTY, all of the medics are civil servants.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0085par0305	Guys, please...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0084par0306	Wait a minute... wait a minute... wait a minute... We have people who vote for every party, but all we have to do is applaud all the paramedics. They worked for 24 hours, we went out, and we said: "Let's give the medics a month's salary as a political institution, a month's salary. You didn't give them a month's salary, you didn't give them a month's pay. Last time, I spoke to an ICU nurse over Zoom, and the paramedics, do you know how much extra money was deposited in the ICU nurse's bank account last month? Seven liras, seven liras, friends. Are you aware of such injustice? Why don't you just weigh your conscience? Talk to an ICU nurse. What did they do? How much money did these people have in their bank account? That wasn't even done, guys. I'm sorry. You don't want to see the truth. It's the truth, it's sad, but it's the truth, my dear friends. We're the 4th worst-run country in the world; I don't say, the whole world does. The political institution, you took precautions, and we fought back? Look, when Covid-19 happened, we never criticized power for a month and a half. We counted what needed to be done, one by one, do this. Because the problem isn't a party problem, it's the problem of Turkey, it's the problem of the world. You need to take a look at this question, have you asked the government what was the government's strategy for Covid-19? The strategy should be: Health-based measures to prevent the epidemic will be taken; economic problems will arise; measures to address the economic problem will be taken; unemployment problems will arise; measures to prevent unemployment will be taken. Did they follow that strategy? They didn't. We also showed the way, and we said, "Look, if you want to learn this, gather the Economic and Social Council, each of those people have faced this problem, listen to the problem from them, and listen to the solution from them. Then as a political institution, you do it or you don't do it, but listen to the person who has the problem. You haven't listened, friends, you haven't listened. You've called the president of the TOBBB, the president of what's-his-name. Is there a doctor there? He doesn't have a doctor. Does he have a farmer? He doesn't have a farmer. Does he have a tradesman? He doesn't have a business. And how is that going to work out? Dear friends, we've helped 156 countries, we've helped nine international organizations. Didn't you ask yourself, for God's sake, this question? To disband five masks, the power argued within itself for months, five masks! We wanted to disband. Wow, how do Republican People's Party municipalities distribute? Instead of fighting Covid, you began to fight our Republican People's Party municipalities. Yeah, that's crazy. I assure you, it's beyond reason. (Applause from CHP rows) However, if Republican People's Party municipalities only help CHP members, I too will be angry, and you have the right to be angry; equal to everyone, we said, you will be equal to everyone. We have said this. Republican People's Party municipalities have launched a charity campaign, you've confiscated their bank accounts. There's a soup kitchen account that's been going on for years, and you've even confiscated the money. Didn't a servant of God, a servant of a God of conscience, come out and say, "This is wrong?" Why didn't you say so? Why didn't you tell me? Yeah, well, that's against humanity. For years, food has been taken from that soup kitchen to poor, needy families. You could not say, "Don't seize this account." My dear friends, I will ask no more of the budget at this meeting. What budget is this, for God's sake? What budget is this? Let me put it to you as someone who works at the Treasury Ministry for 27 and a half years, the budget I know is prepared by the Finance Ministry, sits behind it, the Finance Minister holds a press conference, the entire economy is there, the columnists are there, the NGOs are there, and the Finance Minister tells us what this budget brings to Turkey, and we all learn. What's been done about this budget? What's done? Was there a meeting like this, or did the Minister of Finance make a statement?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0086par0311	We're not in the Cabinet system.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0084par0312	Who, for God's sake, is the Minister of Finance? Why doesn't he explain, why doesn't he? What budget, friends, what budget? Look, dear friends, what brings this budget to the worker? What does he bring to the farmer? What does it bring to the pensioner? This budget is the interest budget, this budget is the budget of the thieves, and I'm telling you clearly, it's the budget of those who serve the embezzlers. (CHP) Look, I'll say it again, and I'll say it again, believe me, believe me, this budget is the budget for services to thieves.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0086par0314	Would you invite me to speak in a clean language, Mr. President, in such a manner?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0084par0315	I'll come, and I'll come to the veterans. My dear friends, look, why has one government been established? I mean, it's up to one person, and all authority is tied up in one person. It's all gonna happen so fast, isn't it? It was all going to happen so fast. Was the mid-term program broadcast on time by law? It hasn't been published. Do you ask why it wasn't published? Who stopped you? Was the mid-term financial plan published on time? According to the law, it wasn't published on time. Did you ask why it wasn't published on time? Who stopped you? What power prevented it? You're on your own, nothing else. Yeah, they can't even enforce the law. In the same way, the Budget Call and Equipment Guide, Investment General and Investment Program Prep Division, which was not published on time. The supplements of the budget came to the House after the budget was given. In addition to the budget, the budget was given at midnight. The budget is tried. But did we wait for the budget that night? No. On Sunday, the Anadolu Agency announced to the world with a shy message. It was given a budget of 2021. Who's stopping you? So they served and we stopped them? So they didn't publish it in time, and we stopped them? They didn't publish it in time. They don't follow the laws you make, yes, you see, I know, they know, they don't fit, but you raise your hand again. You have to question your own conscience. I have a question that history puts on you, you have a mission, you have your own conscience! Oh, man, we made a law! Follow the law. I don't obey the law, he says. Why? I've got lead soldiers in the Capitol, they'll raise their hands whatever I say. Oh, yeah? That's right. [[You're missing out on the AK PARTY.]] I hope not, I hope not.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0087par0320	Don't confuse us with CHP MPs!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0084par0321	Look, Mr. President, Mr. Oktay started with a sentence like this. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the site of the national will.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0088par0322	You sent in a deputy crying.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0084par0323	So, good, is it necessary to answer the question motions of the highly respected members of the Turkish National Assembly, which is the basis of the national will, according to the Constitution, in 15 days? I do. It's not like there's been an answer for a year and a half or two, let alone a 13.606 question motion. Which council are we defending? We're defending the Parliament and the executive body that responded in 15 days. Why don't you object? Because you don't make questions. Well, we want to know the truth, we're making a question motion. (CHEERING) You have to say, "O government! We voted for you, you got elected, why don't you answer the motions in 15 days? And I have a promise to Mr. President, and Mr. President has to warn the executive body, so why don't you answer the congressman's motion in 15 days? My dear friends, see, the executive body does not fit this, nor does the executive body fit the Constitution. You accept an executive body that doesn't comply with the Constitution, that undermines Parliament's reputation, that says it's not worth answering the parliamentary's question motion, by not making a sound, and we don't accept it. Whatever executive body it has, it has to do with the constitution. This isn't happening, my dear friends. The Plan and Budget Commission... we made the law, we sat together, we made a law. The Central Bank will address the next Plan and Budget Commission at certain times of the year, the Social Security Institution, Court, Treasury and Finance Minister. According to the Law on Watching and Controlling State Supports, Capital Market Board President, Director of Natural Disaster Insurance Institution, President of the Savings Insurance Fund, Insurance and Retirement Organization, TİİK and Turkish Entity Fund will provide information to the upcoming Turkish Grand National Assembly. Did he? Then why did you say yes to these laws? Ask your own conscience. They don't come in, they don't give out information on time, they come in whenever they want, look when they want. They're not coming... so if it's a crime not to obey the law, they don't fit, so what are we gonna do, no? This Parliament, what was it, was the establishment of the national will. E, they don't care about national will; they say they don't care about you, and I say they won't. What do you mean, friends? Look, my dear friends, last week a research motion was discussed here for whom the $128 billion was sold. I'm not talking about $1 billion, I'm not talking about $1 billion, I'm not talking about $50 billion, 128 billion is sold to whom? You called it no. Why did you say no? What in God's name are you going to say if your children at home ask that question? Yeah, who was $128 billion sold to? Yeah, let's know about that. Now, did the farmer take $128 billion, retired, the peasant bought it, bought the bagels on the street, bought the tea shop, bought the hairdresser? Who took 128 billion dollars? Yeah, that question's in the air. This institution, which is the basis of national will, is not to investigate it, nor to touch the person who delivers it, but the reputation of this place will be filed, my friends. Dear friends, we have to claim the right of the undignified orphan, if we want justice, the right of the undignified orphan. You've given up the right to an unfinished orphan, and you're standing like a fortress behind the dollar lords. (CHEERING) Is that acceptable, is that acceptable? Dear friends, when this motion is discussed, the testimony of a respected MP who has been president of the Central Bank in the past is: I worked in the Central Bank for thirty-five years, I have never encountered a negative reserve. Minus 47 billion dollars, minus 47 billion dollars, the central bank's vault is minus 47 billion dollars. How'd you guys come up with this arrangement for $47 billion, minus $47 billion? Who brought it? Who runs this country? It's not $1, it's not $5, it's not $100, it's $47 billion, so it's what our kids and grandchildren will pay. Let's look into 128 billion dollars, don't look into it. We have 47 billion dollars minus, so don't look into it. Investigate what? Well, then, friends, make a motion to how long canaries live, maybe friends will say yes to that, and we'll know about canaries, what's going on. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, my dear friends, we're locals and nationals. You say, "Good." I have no doubt that you're local, but I'm concerned that you're national. I'll count, I'll count one by one. Look, how do you know a country's nationality? With his money. Turkish lira. When the Ottomans left, when they brought a country into their land, they would print the Ottoman coin. Why? He used to say, "This place belongs to me." Oh, yeah? Yeah. Good. How many dollars is the deposit in the banks of the Republic of Turkey now? 56.3%. 56.3% of the assets in the banks of the Republic of Turkey are US dollars. What kind of nationalism is that? What kind of politics does that make this country? Why? The citizen doesn't trust me, and I'll keep my money and savings in dollars. He says, "Turkish lira melts." Look, my dear friends, who discredited Turkish lira, and who made it this way? Have those who have ruled this country for 18 years brought Turkish lira to such a terrible position? Well, they did. Look, I'll tell you something else: this is bank deposit money, at least the money's there. They made it possible for non-fashion companies to borrow money on foreign currency. Think about it, there's no foreign currency, but you can borrow it over the tattoo. Why are you borrowing money? Don't you have Turkish lira in this country? It was forbidden. It was banned during the reign of the late Ecevit. Companies without foreign currency can't be borrowed over currency. If you have foreign currency, borrow money, but if you don't have foreign currency, don't borrow money over currency. You're ruining Turkey. What did they do? They took it away, and now you can borrow it on the exchange.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0089par0332	Istanbul City has also borrowed money.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0084par0333	You've opened the way, and the city of Istanbul... look, I don't want to borrow money...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0089par0334	You're busted.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0084par0335	I'm talking about nationally, domestically, citizens borrowing money from foreign currency, domestically. One more thing, one more thing, don't worry, guys, one more thing. The government of the Republic of Turkey, of its own citizens, has borrowed dollars from its own citizens, citizens of the Republic of Turkey. What do you say? Here, tell me, his own citizen, citizen of the Republic of Turkey. The state, the state of the Republic of Turkey, over the dollar in debt. Why? That citizen doesn't lend you money, says he'll lend you money if there's a dollar. Who created this insecurities, who created this insecurities? My dear friends have ruled this country for 18 years, making Turkish lira unreputed. There's no need to run around, there's no need to run around. My friends who study economics probably know a law called Gresham Law. Bad money fires good money. Everybody keeps the good money, tries to get the bad money out of their hands. At the moment, Turkish lira is bad money, but currency is good money, everyone keeps the currency, 56 percent of the deposits in banks are like this. Have you ever heard of Ihsan Salman, in Iğdır? You forgot, didn't you? But this brother of yours didn't forget. What did he do, dear Salman? Barber, Salman, barber. I'll shave him three times for free, he said. Look, he's more nationalist, he's more patriotic. You didn't even claim her rights, not even her rights. My dear friends, since New Year's, Turkish lira has lost 23.6% to dollars; Turkish lira has lost 29.7% to euros. I'll tell you what that means. There are now 30 major companies in the Istanbul Stock Exchange carrying Turkey. The total market value of 30 companies, such as Akbank, Business Bank, Guarantee Bank, Peoplebank, OYAK Cement, Ereglı Demir and Steel, Koç Holdings, Sabanci Holdings, Doğan Holdings, TÜPRAŞ, PETKIM, Turkish Telekom, Turkcell, Turkish Airlines, was 150 billion dollars, 150 billion dollars. How much are they worth today? $60 billion. 150 billion dollars, today's value is $60 billion. Who did this to you? Who did this to you? In 2018, the country's national income was $892 billion, at 2018. Now, the national income of the country is $736 billion; the national income that melts in two years is 156 billion. Who took 156 billion dollars, who took it? Do you ever wonder who pulled it out of people's pockets and gave it to who? You came here and listened to the story of Alice in Wonderland, and you clapped every once in a while, and there was no excitement, and I saw her, too. When this country became like this in 18 years...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0090par0338	Why did he vote?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0091par0339	You're bringing it!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0090par0340	Why didn't he give it to you?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0341	He'll get the vote back, don't worry; he'll get his vote back, you'll see. You'll see, by God's leave... look, I'll tell you again: by the will of God, you'll see how this nation will travel in the first election.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0093par0343	Muharrem Slim or you?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0344	Who does he work for? Who does he work for?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0094par0346	Guys, please...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0347	Listen, guys, we're running out of time.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0094par0349	Please... we don't have that kind of procedure.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0350	Guys, please... What's the interest on the budget in 18 years, 18 years? $492 billion, $192 billion, $192 billion for 18 years. How many million dollars do we pay every day? Every day, Turkey pays 75 million, 573, 63 dollars interest, paying $3,48,878 per hour interest. Can you tell me... that's what I mean when I say that this budget is the budget for extortion? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you voted, good. They set up a second budget: the Turkish Entity Fund. I mean, some of Turkey's assets are there, but do you know anything about it? No. Are you in charge? No. Does this Parliament, which is the basis of national will, oversee it? No. Why? If the entity is there, if the Turkish asset fund is there, why... where is it going? My dear friends, 177 billion needs to be audited, audited, or I'm reading the reports too. Just as the budget for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is being audited, the second largest budget needs to be audited, there is a value of 177 billion dollars. Let me give you a number: Do you know what their short-term debt was in 2017? It was $26 billion. In 2019, what about the short-term debts of the Turkish Entity Fund? It went from $26 billion to $951 billion. Have you ever questioned your conscience? Where's that money going? They took this money, they borrowed it, and where did it go? Long-term loans were $32 billion, up to 271 billion. Have you ever questioned him? There's so poor, there's so many families that feed on market scraps, there's families that feed on dumpsters; where's that money going, where's it going? Where the hell is he going?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0095par0356	Sidebar!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0357	Look, the Stock Exchange is in Istanbul, Turkey is in the Entity Fund. They sold 10 percent to the Qatars. We asked you how much you sold it for, $200 million... why $200 million? What's the profit rate on the stock market in Istanbul? 52 percent. It's 52 percent profitable, so it's 15 to 20 months from now. What kind of a honey sale is that? He sold it well, he could sell it for $1, because there's only one official, and he's not subject to the Law of Contraction. What is Qatar, king of Qatar?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0095par0358	Emiri.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0359	Just as Qatar Emiri gave us a free plane, the Stock Exchange could give 10 percent of Istanbul for free, there are no obstacles. Do you have any idea what kind of order you're building? Public-special cooperation projects... And, my friends, didn't your esteemed President come out and say not one, not one, not a hundred, but thousands of times, there will be no money left here, here, here, in the nation's pockets? He did. Well, now look at the budget, it's billions coming out of everyone's pockets. Can you tell me, when a president talks, he has to rely on data, he has to rely on information, why would he say that?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0096par0361	Why don't you hang in there?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0362	I'm holding on. Look, every sentence I say is true, every sentence I say is true.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0097par0364	Don't be rude!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0365	Wait a minute, guys, wait a minute, Mr. Free, wait a minute... But here's the problem: people who rent their minds can't see the truth. I'll say it again: those who rent their minds can't see the truth. [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] See, we're local and national, right? There's an unofficial national alliance. I'll tell you again, there's an informal national alliance. Why? And friend, are you bidding? Yeah. Who's doing it? The Republic of Turkey, the Republic of Turkey. Who's taking the contract? He's a citizen of the Republic of Turkey. So, where is the subject of the tender being held? It's done in the state of the Republic of Turkey. Why US dollars and not Turkish lira? Why? Let's say we accept the American dollar, there's been a conflict, not the Turkish courts, but the London courts... Is that your native nature, for God's sake? Is that your nationality, for God's sake? (CHP and GOOD PARTY) Look, you're not just giving them dollars, we're calling these people five gangs, you're not just giving them dollars, you're also giving them the difference in courtship as Turkish lira melts. 2014-2019, how many liras were paid? I don't want to. Court report: 61 billion, 719 million, 322,000 liras have been paid. What did you give the farmer? You said close the shop. You told the coffee shop to close the shop. You said, "You have forbidden him to play cards." What in God's name did you give him? What did you give the coffee shop? What did you give the shopkeeper?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0098par0369	500 billion...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0370	You lent me money, you lent me money, you lent me money! Then you'll go down his throat. Give him his debt. [[Applause from CHP rows]] But from here, from this stand, I speak to all my citizens: God willing, we will be in power. By Allah's leave, you will see, we will put an end to this robbery. We're going to nationalize and buy all these investments of the five gangs that are going to exploit even our grandchildren. [[The voices of the CHP's rows (Bravo) are constantly applauding]] Wait a minute, guys, I'm running out of time. Thank you. I said, what did you give the farmer? What did you give him? Did you give him something for a dollar? Did you give him a penny? You didn't. Did you give her any groceries? You didn't. What did you give to whom?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0099par0376	500 billion...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0377	You gave it to Qatar.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0100par0378	We gave it to the poor.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0379	That's right, 500 billion. You know what happened? Thank you, you remind me. Qatar entered, bought $500 million, and said, "I will publish the right to publish the games for $ 500 million." He said, "I don't do the deal, and I don't pay the money." Well, there are courts. There's a palace behind me, and I won't pay. What did he do, Minister? He dropped $90 million to one person. Look, you didn't give a dime to thousands of shopkeepers, you gave a penny to a Qatar firm, $90 million at a time, $90 million! Oh, for God's sake, aren't you going to do an interrogation of conscience? It's $90 million! You give it to one person, you give it to the one person you need to give it to. He's got a deal, he's got to give it; I'm not going to give it to him. That's it? No. They did one more thing. On top of the dollar, the Katar company said to him, "No food, no dollars increase, no telling where it's going, turn it into Turkish lira and stabilize it." They did. They fixed it on 5.80 and turned it into Turkish lira. Would you tell me, for God's sake, would you tell me? You make a company do this, I'll give you $1.168 a month, 39 lira a day, live like kings. Is that what justice is? Is that what humanity is? Is that a conscience, for God's sake? My dear friends, you have set your sights on the farmer's property. We made the law, didn't we? Agricultural Law 21st article: Each year, a farmer is supported by at least 1 per cent of the national income from the budget. It says that it is not available, it is given.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0101par0382	It's being given.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0102par0383	It's being given.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0384	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I don't know anything about ignorance, ignorance is different. It's not right to argue with the ignorant. (CHEERING) But I told you... Turkey has national income, you open the figures of TÜİK, you look at the 1%, the farmer is now going to receive $211 billion from these rulings. There never was. You should've given me an increase in national income every year. Yeah, well, once you don't even know about this budget, dear brother, you don't even know about this budget. The incentive in this budget is the same as last year, not even 1% more. Yeah, I wonder how you talk without knowing it. But I'm sure you'll raise your hand like a soldier right away, I'm sure of it.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0103par0387	These hands are clapping like soldiers.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0388	You're impounding the farmer's goods, his tractor, his cows. Hey, guys, there's the Bankruptcy Act. Is the farmer's livelihood confiscated? You confiscated it. In this case, the farmer, in this case, the citizen who collects paper from the garbage, in this case, is miserable, living off the leftovers of the market, but -- some of you, I mean, sorry, I don't mean this side -- some of them and some of their men don't get paid enough, some of them don't get paid enough, they don't get paid enough, they don't get paid enough, they don't get paid enough, they get paid four. Is it your conscience to accept a man's four wages, five paychecks, and a lot of money when there's so much unemployment? Is morality okay with that? Would conscience accept that? Who would agree to that? [[Applause from CHP rows]] The Tank Palette Factory... we did, yes. The Tank Palette Factory is the virtue of this country. Can you tell me which country of the world has delivered its own tank pallet factory to an army? Sir, if it's not $20 billion, it's $250 million, did Kilicdaroglu ever pronounce 20 billion? I just told you, who did you sell $128 billion to? It's not $20 billion, even if it's a dollar, it's the honor of the country! All the secrets of this country are there. Qatar, come on, if the tank makes it, I'll say Qatar makes tanks, so we'll take advantage of it. For God's sake, can you tell me, what kind of tank is Ethem Sandzak? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Erdogan says that there is absolutely no such thing as the sale of the factory to Qatar investors. True, because it was given for free. If it's a sale, they'll get paid. Not even a lira, not a dollar, not a penny, not a penny, given for free. That's why we called the Tank Palet Factory a go-between. Dear friends, this is not a privatisation, says Erdogan. Either he didn't read the decree he signed himself, probably talking about the Privatisation Law, privatisation, in four or five places. How can a person not read the inside of a decree that he signed, see what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it. The love of Qatar has blinded your eyes, it seems. (HPP clapping in rows) One more thing he says: "Even though we've shown everything in headshots," he still talks about it. I didn't see it. If there is any excuse for you, we'd be delighted if you'd be so kind as to give it to us. He hid the second resolution, and I pulled it out, and we both found out. Why are you hiding the second verdict? On what grounds are you hiding it? What were the workers who worked there, Tank Palette? "Tank Palet is a country, not a country." I kiss the eyes of all those workers for taking care of the Palet Factory and their homeland. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Let's skip that and skip that. On November 9, 2018, the President of Defense Industries throws a tweet: Sir, along with the mass production of the main combat tank, the logistical era... the logistical age... with logistical support...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0104par0395	Let's start over.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0396	No. The TSTM installation and operating agreement they've made. The first ALTAY tank will be delivered to the Army Command in 18 months. Where's the tank?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0105par0398	Eighteen months? It's been two years.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0399	Where's the tank? It will be delivered in 18 months.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0105par0400	They're building a battery tank, a battery.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0401	They could at least buy a toy tank, buy a toy tank. Where's that tank? You gave it away, 18 months later you'd have a tank; you gave it away for free, the factory's gone, and there's no tank. You gave it away for 25 years, 25 years. I ask the government, I ask the government: Now, Ethem Sandzak collects goods from stores, writes the goods he collects on a bill, puts 25 percent profit on it, says you will pay me. Let them explain. I know the bills, I've seen the bills, I've got an example of the bills. Why? He buys from the outside, he doesn't produce, he doesn't produce, he gives there, he gets 25 percent of the profits, I'll make a tank with it. What tank? Where's that tank?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0106par0402	You get in the tank, we'll build a tank.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0403	Dear friends, aren't these the ones who confiscated the money of the 15th of July martyrs and veterans? They didn't confiscate it?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0107par0404	No.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0108par0405	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0406	If it wasn't for us, would those coins be gone? It would have been destroyed. Let me tell you something even more strange: In the terrorist attack on Beşiktas, 40 were killed by police and 47 by our citizens, where a fundraiser was launched, 52 million liras. Does anyone know how many pounds a month is attached to a man whose child is a martyr? You don't know. Why don't you know? It's a problem. Why don't you ask?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0109par0408	Of course not.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0409	Ma'am, let me remind you: 121 lira 96 cents. I'll give you the bank receipt if you'd like. Now, if, on your conscience, you call the father of a cop who is a martyr in terrorism 121.96 cents a month, right? Stay put, if you don't say it's true, leave your post. I'll give it to you, give it to you, give it to you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0109par0410	You're giving me the wrong number.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0411	No one has security of life and property in this country. Once again, no one in this country has life and property security. Trust in justice is shaken. Who was at the table when the Stock Exchange sold Istanbul to the Qatars? Did you ever wonder who was at the table? There was a businessman there. That man went to Pennsylvania after 17-25. After 17-25, he bought 10 percent of Zaman's newspaper, and that businessman Bank invested money in Asia. So, Bank, how come you locked up guys who passed Asia, and this guy's sitting at that protocol table, sitting at a government protocol table? How come you caught the cadets and put them in jail, and you're carrying this guy over your head? Have you not seen the reports of MIT? Have you not seen the reports of MASAK? Look, I'll tell you why he's there. This indictment, the roof indictment, goes there too, but no one can touch it, no one can touch it. Why? His lawyers are Mr. Erdogan's lawyers. Look, Antalya Science University, they closed them all, they didn't close this university. Who's the president? Fettah Tamce. Who's the Vice President? Ahmet Special, the President's Attorney. Member Ahmet Kurdistant Köhle, President's Attorney; Mustafa Doğan İnal, Tevfik Günal, the President's attorneys, these are in the state protocol. Why can't they touch it? No one can touch it, no one can touch it. My dear friends, one more thing, look, I'd like you to listen carefully. Our citizens from a French company in Turkey have their dues, they're being sued and won, but if all creditors sue, the company will be in a tough spot. What's the first thing they do? To find the President's lawyers. They find, they sit, they call two judges, not in court, but outside, the French official, his lawyer, the President's lawyer, and two others. Look, the president's attorney tells the judge who is sitting in front of him: let's see before the decision is issued. Let's correct it. He doesn't say that in court, he says that to the judge. Who's singing? The President's attorney says so.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0110par0415	He's been denied.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0111par0416	You can't just lie...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0417	It's not a denial, it's a recording, it's a recording, guys. You don't know the world, you don't see the truth. You've rotted the inside of the justice institution! It's the justice institution you've corrupted! Am I not the one who enforces the Constitutional Court's decisions, for God's sake? Who isn't implementing the Constitutional Court rulings? Who isn't implementing the European Court of Human Rights, and I'm not? One of you has to go out and implement the Constitutional Court rulings. Did you say? You can't say that, only we can say it. We love the state, but you guys have problems. You have a problem with the structure of the government. The press is free, uncensored. See, one of the most devastating practices of the justice institution is the Press Agency and the RTÜK. What in God's name did they do? The Press Agency is punishing the newspapers for writing the right news, because they won't get an ad for a month, three months, five months... why doesn't the press ads? Is the news wrong? The story is true. Did Fahrettin Altun pergola do it? He did. Did he take the day off? He didn't. We're not against her pergola. Look, he's a citizen; he's a citizen; he goes, he's applying, he's petitioning, and he's the President of Communication. It's called, it's easy; he goes, he does his pergola there, but I don't listen to laws, I don't get permission from anyone, what do you mean? I'll do the pergola, and no one can make a sound. From the moment he says, then stand there.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0112par0420	It's a shame, isn't it?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0421	He had to tear it down, he had to tear it down. So, what's the shame? It's a shame to punish the newspaper who did the right news. That's a shame. Is that what democracy is? RTÜK is also my dear friends. Look, the government's being robbed through the Press Agency. Mr. Oktay, the state of the Republic of Turkey is being robbed through the Press Agency. There are newspapers, no circulation, no dealerships. You're looking at 50,000 sales. He's getting an ad from the press ads over 50,000 sales. Ready money, ready money. Five newspapers, 50 grand, as long as the government's behind you. Mr. Oktay, if you love this country, if you're against injustice in this country, do you immediately -- do you do it through the Press Ads Agency, do you -- let the circulation of newspapers be controlled by an objective institution, let the money be given according to it; would the state be robbed? There was a newspaper called the Sun, you remember. It had 150,000 circulation, they shut it down. Will 150,000 newspapers close? It won't close. So, there's something here. My dear friends, look, banks only advertise in certain newspapers, public banks. Don't you guys ever ask why these public banks only give them to certain newspapers? Why? He buys them according to his circulation; he gives them according to his circulation; he gives the most ads to the best-selling newspaper; no one objects. Where does Turkcell put the ads? He just can't give it to them, to those TVs, to anyone else. Is that what justice is? Is that what this is? That's the law? Why don't you object to that? Look, my dear friends, in northern Iraq, in the city of Solomonia, one major, and 11 soldiers were put in the sack. We objected, we said, "Give note to the United States of America." Erdoğan has objected, are you referring to the music note? I mean, is such a state to be given a note? It has not been given. Now, I'm asking you: the soldier was put in a sack, no note, but two separate notes were given to Reza Zarrab. Why, why friends? Is Reza Zarrab worth more than the army? No, I know it's never worth the army, but what if Riza Zarrab talks? My dear friends, who's been running this country for 18 years and who's been running it for 18 years? They passed the law you asked for, the law you asked for, the decree you asked for, you appointed the bureaucrat you requested, you changed the institution you requested, you changed the law of the institution you requested. After 18 years, why are we like this, why are we like this? I know, if you had the chance, you'd say, "Sir, it's because of the CHP." We were going to make a beautiful law, and they stopped it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The government is not run like an anonymous company. If the anonymous company goes bankrupt, it's closed, but governments don't go bankrupt. But what Erdogan was saying is that we need to run the state like an anonymous company. Unemployment is the mother of all evil, unemployment is my dear friends, unemployment is the root of all evil. Dad, Mom, the kid who finished college, they're all unemployed. Neither father can look his son in the face nor son can look his father in the face. At the bottom of the walls of that coven, people came and burned themselves. They wanted to go up on the roof of that coven and kill themselves. What did you guys do in 18 years? I'll tell you what the measure of a power's economic success is: the basic measure of a power's success in the economy is measured by the work it creates. If you don't create jobs, you only work for certain circles, certain people in the economy. If there are more than 10 million unemployed in Turkey today, 18 years of power has worked for a handful of people, not for citizens of the Republic of Turkey. Yes, you've made the entire state of the Republic of Turkey available to a bunch of loan sharks in London. They did, and I'm not telling you anything. It's only your fault, I tell you, to raise your hand without questioning what you bring in. Yes, question him. Tell him it's wrong. Tell him, brother, correct him. Tell him, brother. My dear friends have announced 16 employment packages so far, 16; the total package is 22. After each package, he grew unemployed, after each package, after each package... we're tired of the package, so we can't keep track. They don't know, they don't know what to do. For God's sake, tell me, is this the way to run an economy? You shut down the most fundamental institutions of the state -- a friend of ours told us -- the State Planning Agency, the Finance Board, the Accounting Committee. Dear lawmakers, when I was an accountant, we used to go to colleges and teachers and we'd say to the teachers, "Who are the most hardworking students?" We'd go and beg those students to come and take our test. We, the Inspection Board, fought amongst us. We took the most hardworking student. The State Planning Agency would have taken the most qualified students, their master's degree, their Ph.D. You shut down these institutions. There's no merit in the government. There's no merit in one man's regime anyway. Why? One person decides, you don't need the bottom one, you don't have to. Look, my dear friends, they raided a ship in the Mediterranean. We won't be able to find out the truth if they don't make a statement and the European Union's authority doesn't. They say: "We will search the ship, will the state of the Republic of Turkey allow it?" Four hours pass, no answer, four hours. The ambassador of Rome says, "Wait one more hour, perhaps we will get an answer." Five hours past, no response again. Why not? Because no one can reach Erdogan. Yeah, doesn't this country have a foreign minister? How many foreign ministers does this country have? Is İbrahim Kalak the Foreign Minister, Hulusi Akar the Foreign Minister, or Mevlüt Sargeglu the Foreign Minister? Who's the Secretary of State? Five hours, fellas. Then, the next day, our State Department makes a statement: "Sir, this is what happened this morning." They came to the ark at 5:45; we reproached them. You also reproached them, and we all reproached them. Have you ever asked what happened for five hours in Turkey? What happened in five hours? My dear friends, the hunger limit of a family of four is $2,517, the hunger limit; I'm not saying poverty; the hunger limit is $2,517. The minimum wage today is $2.324. Let's make this decision -- a wish decision -- let's all take it together: minimum wage is $3.100 and tax-free, no burden on the employer, and the employee gets the rights of $3,100. Look, the people who get paid five places don't get $3.100, every place, at least $10,000. If it's not tax-free, it's not going to be tax-free, it's going to be over. Let's do it, they didn't do it, so let Parliament do it, and let's defend the minimum wagers. The minimum wage is average. A terrible position, my dear friends. So let's not hand the budget over to the loan sharks, but let's give the budget to the rightful owners; let's serve the workers, the pensioners, the villagers, the civil servants -- all of these -- to the industrialists, to those who sweat. Do you realize that the London loan sharks dictate interest, interest that we want? Turkey's Entity Fund has tendered 3 times, to the international tender. He left in September, nobody paid him. He came out again, nobody paid him. Third time out, nobody paid me. Because the interest they want is high. If you give us this interest, we'll give it to you. They said, they dictated it. Look, my dear friends, our municipalities are getting less than $2.5 billion in interest from the Republic of Turkey, less than that.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0113par0438	Is it a treasure guarantee?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0439	It's not a treasure guarantee, guys, it's a government guarantee, the government gets it, guys. If the interest is lower than the treasury of the Republic of Turkey, you'll think about the size of the trust we have in us, my friend, you'll think about it. If Izmir City finds money to invest in international markets for lower interest than public banks, you will consider trust in us. Yes, you will think of our trust. Let me put it this way: no one despairs, my dear friends. Turkey is a great country, Turkey has the strength to overcome all its problems, and it has the capacity. We'll all be on the side of the sweats of the forehead, we'll be on the side of the laborer, we'll be on the side of the farmer.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0114par0441	Will you side with the women?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0442	It will be God's will that we remove the shame of the families who feed on the leftovers of that market, the families who feed on the dumpsters. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We'll bring democracy in the first elections, we'll bring justice in the first elections, we'll bring justice in the first elections, we'll tell the world how valuable the sweat is in the first elections, we'll save the state of the Republic of Turkey from the loan sharks in London; everyone needs to know that.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0115par0446	Will you be able to run?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0116par0447	Candidate, candidate!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0448	My dear friends, where have you come to? Who told you if I could run? Who told you? [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] What do I want? I don't want a one-man regime. I don't want a government in this country that's gonna be on the back of a tradesman's neck. I want a parliamentary system; democratic, publicist, parliamentary system. I want a policy that pays for every penny. When I'm threatened, if you don't look for my property, if you don't study it, you're an asshole. I want a policy that says, "You're an asshole." I'm not from a culture that sees politics as a means of enrichment, I'm from an understanding that serves politics to the people and to the people. I've never, anywhere, laid a hand on forbidden food, violated anyone's rights, his law. I've always been on the side of justice everywhere, and I've defended justice everywhere.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0116par0451	Then run!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0452	I've never gone and greeted those who threatened me with my presence. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, today, when you're paying a loan, you're borrowing money. You borrow money to pay money, you borrow money to pay interest. Yes, know these facts. Life is bitter, but know these facts. [[Look at the big cities from the AK PARTY rows]] Don't worry about a thing. We work like bees, all our municipalities work like bees. (CHP) I said, no matter what obstacles they take out, you'll never complain, ever. You will make no distinction between citizens. First you'll start with the poor neighborhoods you've neglected. I said, "You'll serve them." I said, "There's no barriers, but there's to the end of public service." I said, "There's to the end of public service." And that's what they do. Didn't you call that Ankara... or that you sold the parcel? Wasn't it you? Did you check with the guy who sells parcels? You're standing behind him! How come you're standing behind the man who sold a parcel of Ankara? (CHEERING) How can that be? What morality, what religion, what faith! For God's sake, tell me! My dear friends, there's more to it than that.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0117par0459	Mr. Kilicdaroglu, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0092par0460	Well, friends, the state of the Republic of Turkey is a state that gives the National Liberation War. [[Noises from AK PARTY and CHP rows]] Friends, no, don't talk at all. No matter what they say, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. The state of the Republic of Turkey is a state that gives the War of National Liberation. Would it be appropriate for the state of the Republic of Turkey to be appointed ambassador to the person taking bribes? (HPP clapping in rows) It's two people! Yeah, he obviously took bribes, took bribes in chocolate boxes. I took the other one's bribe certificate out of the court file and explained it. You've appointed ambassadors! This man will carry the Turkish flag in his car. It's hard on me, it's hard on you, isn't it? Let me tell you: there are people of great value among you; look, I'm critical, but there are people of great value, people who will represent Turkey best. And why are bribes appointed ambassadors when there are these people, why? I don't understand it, but if you have a reason, you can come out and say it on this stand. For that reason, we're throwing out the bribers as ambassadors. We'll find out. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My sincerest greetings to all of you, dear friends.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0118par0468	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0119par0469	Mr. Beştaş... Guys, please... Mr. Beştaş, please. Guys, let's not talk without making a promise, please...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0120par0475	Thank you, Mr. President. A few moments ago, Mr. Mithat Sancar, our co-Chair, was objecting to the findings made in his speech. So I brought some of the reports that were published. On February 21, 2019, in the speech of our Deputy Mahmut Toğrul, I will share the minutes with you, President, because of World Mother's Day. Again, in the 7/11/2019 interview report, Erdal Aydemir had spoken in Zazaca in three or four places. Again, in a speech I celebrated World Mother's Day, I celebrated Kurdish Mother's Day, and it went on to be again. Mr. President, you'll appreciate that it's also used in the dictionary to describe the unknown; it's the same in mathematics, it's the same in modern life.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0121par0479	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0120par0480	It seems here that writing the unknown language was a little difficult and difficult, but instead the concept of "x" was preferred. Obviously, we've talked a lot about the bans on Kurdish, the obstructions here, and we'll talk a lot about it from now on, but right now I'm going to say what I said in my native language in front of the entire House and in front of Turkey, so let's see how it goes down to the transcripts. Among 83 million citizens, the main language of about 25 million citizens is Kurdish..........
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0121par0481	That's not true, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0120par0482	(PHP 3, PHP 4)
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0121par0484	Mr. Beştaş... Mr. Beştaş... what you said...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0120par0485	Let's just watch this tomorrow.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0121par0486	Excuse me...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0120par0487	Let's see how it goes.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0121par0488	You're wrong, what you're saying is wrong; it's written as a footnote.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0120par0489	No.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0121par0490	On the bottom of the page, it says, "I saw that some words were expressed by the preacher in a non-English language. " Above, it says "x" as a footnote sign.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0122par0491	There's only one x here, so there's a lot of x here.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0121par0492	Look at the whole note, look at the entire report.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0123par0493	I'm looking at the whole story.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0121par0494	No, I got one, too. The Home Secretary spoke, used a statement, wrote it down...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0124par0495	He has disbelieved.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0123par0496	I'll bring it and show it to you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0121par0497	...and it's written exactly on the bottom as a footnote. Some words were expressed in a non-English language.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0123par0498	No, I'll show you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0121par0499	Yeah. So it's not written in x, it's a footnote sign, it has an explanation at the bottom, in the footnote.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0125par0500	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0121par0501	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0125par0502	Mr. President, we've heard from Mr. President. I've requested a brief statement from my position, if that's all right.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0121par0503	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0125par0505	Mr. President-General, when he used an open language in terms of the way he spoke, I guess our friends had a little bit of a conversation with him, or else, of course, we'll listen to them. As I listened to Mr. President, I remembered the introduction of Robert Musil. At that entrance, he was saying: "We thought we had wonderful treasures in the depths of darkness in the sea, but when we came to the sea, I mean, light, we could see that all we had was broken glass. (Applause from the lines of the AK PARTI) Now, why did I remember that? Why do I remember? Dear friends, Mr. President, they gave a speech on December 5th, Women's Rights Day, and I listened to them on TV. There, quite rightly, they expressed that half of Turkey's population, even more, were women, they mentioned gender quotas, and they also demanded that the Political Parties Act be changed, and that parties would make that change. Isn't that right, sir? We know that the fact is that today, the Republican People's Party's MPs have 12 per cent of women, sir, 12 per cent of women, 18 per cent of AK PARTI. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You could do what you said at the Republican People's Party without changing the Political Parties Act, without the law.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0126par0511	Mr. President, there's no such thing in the budget. About someone talking...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0127par0512	Allow me to lead.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0126par0513	There's no such procedure in the budget. The budget has a tradition. Let's all go out and talk then. Is that a thing?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0127par0514	Excuse me, excuse me.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0128par0515	I just felt the need to talk about it as an example, because each question is bound to create a separate argument. Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0127par0517	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0129par0519	I don't want to make it too long, but I wish Mr. Bostanci had found it, and I wish -- and I can appreciate your conscience -- Mr. Bostanci, either he's gone, and he's hurt me with $90 million that's taken extra back to Qatar. If he had said, I'd have waited for him to answer the question, or I'd have expected him to tell us who the $128 billion was being sucked out of the U.S.A. Bank for at least how it was sunk for minus 47 billion dollars, or so domestically, after bragging about the savings in the banks, I'd expect him to say, 56 percent of the money, or I'd expect him to ask him to understand who's being a native Indian.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit02spe0127par0521	We'll continue the negotiations. Guys, I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0127par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 24th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and with the Central Management Act of 2019. The commission is in place. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the first speaker is Deputy Director of the Group and İstanbul MP Mehmet Mush. Here you go, Mr. Mush. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0130par0012	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the General Assembly and your grand delegation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the budget is the most concrete performance measure of a government. During 2003 and 2019, the budget presentations in parliament included 3.63 per cent of the government's budget deficit's budget deficit average, while 2.42 per cent of its goals were expected to happen during the same period. And what's pulling this average up is the first three years that we've gradually reduced the rate from 12 per cent to the year 2006. In the period after the global crisis, 2010-2019, the average budget deficit was 1.72 per cent. In the decades before us, when we call them the 90s, there is an average budget deficit of 6.5 percent. Dear lawmakers, the budget revenues of 2021 were estimated at $1 trillion 101 billion. 923 billion of revenues are planned to be obtained from taxes and 178 billion from non-tax areas. Budget costs are estimated at one trillion $346 billion. At the end of the year, 245 billion euro budget deficits and a 4.3 per cent budget deficit are targeted to close with a national rate of revenue. Likewise, the budget deficit of 3.9 per cent in 2022 is estimated in 2023 and 3.5 per cent in 2023. Congressmans, look, I want to make this clear about budgets and interest costs. The speakers who spoke before us highlighted certain points. I think Mr. Kemal has left. I wish he could hear this.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0131par0017	We'll hear it.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0130par0018	Prior to the AK PARTI administration, we were only paying $43 of a 100-dollar budget for interest, so we took over this kind of Turkey, and 43 lira was going to interest, and at that time it was down to 9 to 10 percent. So 10 liras of $100 is interest. So, where'd the $35 go in between? He went to health care, education, national defenses, social benefits, or know-how services we can't count. This painting is a clear indication of how the image returns to the service of the public in the balance of interest-service power of the EC PARTY. In recent years, the leader of the Main Opposition Party, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, had just mentioned the loan sharks in London -- his own statement, not our own -- paid interest to the loan sharks at London. Now, let me give you a number: If there was a painting that Mr. Kilicdaroglu missed, what would it be like if $43 of the $100 income went to interest? Then I'd like to leave the credit to you. In the budget of 2021, as I mentioned, if interest costs were up to 43 per cent, we would be paying 400 billion more interest than planned today. This was left in our nation's safe with the interest drop. Now, he made a calculation here at the exchange point, Mr. Kemal. If these interest rates hadn't dropped -- look, I'm telling the CHP Group -- we'd be paying $766 billion more interest. So, with the interest downgraded, this 766 billion amount remained in our nation's vault and went to the nation as a service. Again, we've just been given some numbers, and there's been talk about the value of the companies in the stock market.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0132par0021	There's no money!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0133par0022	There's no money in the safe!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0130par0023	Now, there's been talk about the value of companies in the stock market, so let's do a comparison: America, right? There's euros and dollars from the world's reserve currency units. The American stock markets were worth $36 trillion last year, and they dropped to $16 trillion this year, in dollars.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0133par0024	He'll be long gone by now.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0130par0025	The stock market was worth 1.5 billion dollars last year, went up to $2 billion this year, and 10 percent of it was sold for $200 million. The European Bank for Development and Development took over a ten per cent stake. This is a number that we're taking over, much lower than $200 million, sold by a much higher number.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0134par0026	How much?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0130par0027	The European Bank of Development and Development signed a non-disclosure agreement. If they think it's appropriate to explain, we'll explain the number. You can ask them. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, the profit of 2019... look, here, Mr. President-General, they're making this money in ten to five months; where's the oily business, where's the profitable business? If the numbers were right, CHP would be sitting this way, not that way. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] 2019 profit is 1 billion, see, 2019 profit is $1 billion. Sold for 200 million dollars, 10 per cent sold for $1.6 billion, so when you calculate the profits, the return is 15 to 16 years. But the information that's being given here... let me be correct, and I'll be able to share the right information with the public.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0135par0032	They're accurate information.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0136par0033	They're all lies.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0130par0034	Mr. President, look, Mr. Kemal has made another statement here, he said: "This time we'll send you away. We've listened to this a lot.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0137par0035	Come on, let's go.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0138par0036	Make a choice, right away...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0130par0037	Look, I'm not giving the answer. Guys, be patient. The defeated wraith would not be satisfied with wrestling.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0137par0039	You were the last to lose.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0130par0040	We do not give the answer to Kemal Bey, but he gives the answer to the candidates of the President, and Muharrem Encel. It says: "He has been eaten, too." You're out, you're out. It's eaten and eaten. He's beaten every election. (Applause from the AK PARTY) So that's what we're going to get. Look, for the record, it's normal for the main opposition leader to be a natural candidate here because it's a big party.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0139par0041	People are hungry, they're hungry. Hungry, hungry, tell me about them.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0130par0042	He specifically asked our friends here, are you a candidate? No answer. We're on the island. It'll be on the record. Yeah, well, I don't care if Engin Altay is running, they can't run.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0139par0043	What's gonna run for you, who's gonna run for office.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0130par0044	So let Mr. Kemal come in, let him come out, and there is time for 2023, and let him be a candidate.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0139par0045	They're hungry, they're hungry.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0140par0046	Yeah, what do you know?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0141par0047	Mr. Altay, you are the Deputy Director of the Group, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0142par0048	Mr. President, look, about the pandemic process, the President-General has made statements here again: The government can't run the business, the government can't do this. Look, the esteemed MPs have done their part in the pandemic process. According to the World Health Organization, Turkey is among the best countries to run this process.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0140par0049	We're one of the four worst countries!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0142par0050	Hey, guys, look, the buses in Istanbul caught mushrooms from the dirt. You can't even clean the buses! Your main job is to clean the buses, clean them first.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0143par0052	Have you ever taken a bus in your life?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0142par0053	Look, people are going like a pile of fish, and there's a government that can't afford to take the bus out of the garage and put it in public service. [[Noises From CHP rows]] Hence, it is the municipality's responsibility to ensure that people move from one place to another, and it can't even do that. Let the central government do this, let them do this... let friends do the central government, do what you have to do in the local government.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0144par0056	You'll be given a central government, sir, I don't think you've heard!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0142par0057	Look, I'll tell you another one, and I'll say one more thing and I'll keep talking.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0144par0058	Speak!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0142par0059	Here he said, Mr. President-General, that he turned to our group and said: "French soldier, they say yes to everything."
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0145par0060	That's right.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0142par0061	Dear friends, if you're looking for a lead soldier, you'll have to look at your own group first.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0146par0062	We don't have any lead soldiers.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0142par0063	He said, "I'll throw out a loud voice." You've hired 20 MPs crying and crying to the good, the good, the good, the good, the good, the good, the good, the good, the good, the good, the good, the good, the good, the good, the good, the good, the good, the good, the Where's the will, the will? Look, lead soldier... maybe they're zinc soldiers, they've passed the bullet, zinc, steel soldier. Mr. President, look, they said that if you don't agree, we won't put you on the list, and if you do, we'll put you back on the list.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0147par0066	They're all taken, they're all taken.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0148par0067	Mr. Gürer, let's hear it.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0142par0068	So the wills were rented for the list order and returned.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0148par0070	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0142par0071	Yes, Mr. Omar was crying most of all. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Mr. President, look, the Tank Palette Factory... dear friends, this isn't the Tank Palette Factory, it's the tank palette, it's the palette. He's built tanks so far, and we haven't seen it? We're going to produce it in this period. Look, this business administration that Turkey has directed and brought to life -- I'm reading in English now, because it's written by HDP's friends -- is a short name.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0149par0074	Where's the tank? There's no tank. Where's the factory? In Qatar.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0142par0075	In the 1990s and 2000s, Britain passed over the right to operate the entire military maintenance facility for 25 years. It's called in English -- of course it's an international work model -- but the opposition is concerned about twisting the issue because it can't follow. Now, look, this is what the loan sharks in London -- look, they've been shot at by human claims -- Mr Kemal talks to the loan sharks in London, but if they're loan sharks, the CHP's municipality -- we don't look at it as our own, we don't look at it as international financial circles, we don't look at it as yours -- the Istanbul Metropolitan Mayor's $580 million, the final return coupon is borrowed by 6.6.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0150par0078	Why was your Minister of Finance taken?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0142par0079	580 million dollars was borrowed by CHP's municipality from loan sharks in London. Now, if these are loan sharks, why did you send your municipality to these loan sharks? And you're making it a big success to take interest from loan sharks in London... look, London says it's law: English law. Look, while you're coming to the administration, we're not going to be charged, Istanbul's resources are enough for Istanbul... but after you arrived, some of it's been borrowed, some of it's been borrowed, and 580 million dollars was taken from loan sharks in London.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0151par0080	You're the one who dropped Turkey's note, you!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0142par0081	Well, the President-General says he's celebrating, the Mayor is celebrating, and he's fallen into the hands of loan sharks, and he's got the city in a row.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0152par0082	You fucking interest-makers!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0142par0083	It says: "We're in debt at a very low rate. Do you know why?" The financial structure of the city is so strong that as soon as you saw it, the men jumped, it's not your success, it's our success, we've handed over to you a city like cyclops. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Look, now, dear friends, let's make a note of this, and pass it on to Mr. President. What does Faik Oztrak say? Faik Oztrak says: "The borrower takes orders." Look, the CHP will now take orders from the loan sharks in London. That's what they did to the city, not me, Faik Oztrak. Mr. Kemal always says in his own manner: "Return that money immediately, brother. " Come on, come on, come on, come on.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0153par0087	The horse tracks are mixed in with the dog tracks...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0142par0088	Let's see, Mr. President Kemal, will he be able to return this $580 million to the London loan sharks? (CHP rows) We'll see.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0154par0089	Yeah, everything's fine, fine; why did the Finance Minister leave?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0142par0090	Will the mayor listen to Kemal Bey or listen to the loan sharks in London? If Mr. Kemal can get this $580 million returned, I'll take this stand, apologize to him, take it all back.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0154par0092	If everything's okay, why did the Minister of Finance leave?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0142par0093	Let's see if Mr. Kemal's going to pass the word to the mayor or not. If he cannot return this, take all that Kemal Bey has said here, and throw it away, and it is of no value.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0155par0094	What will you do, tell of the city, and of Berat, and of Berat? What are you gonna do with the city budget?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0142par0095	Now, Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0156par0097	Guys...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0157par0098	Mr. President, you can't...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0156par0099	I followed him, I followed him. [[Noises from CHP rows]] But there's no sound, not so much, please. There's a reasonable point to everything.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0158par0102	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, in 2020, the global economy... [[Noises from CHP rows]] These facts have a painful quality: they make people scream, they make them scream, they make them scream. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] In 2020, the global economy was completely affected by the Covid-19 epidemic. The outbreak of Covid-19, which began in China, spread around the world after a while. In 2020, the global economy entered a deeper crisis than the 2008 crisis. In 2009, during the global crisis, the global economy would only shrink 0.08 per cent, while the IMF estimates that the global economy would shrink 4.4 per cent in 2020.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0159par0107	People want bread, bread.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0158par0108	Likewise, for 2020, 5.8 per cent of the developed economies are expected to narrow the eurozone by 8.3 per cent and 3.3 per cent of developing countries. About two years ago, in August 2018, we were exposed to a courtship attack that was incompatible with the reality of the Turkish economy, and Turkey was able to quickly get out of the process of wolf attacks. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Look, in 2019, Turkey's debt to the household was 14 per cent, 41 per cent in developing countries. Likewise, in the first quarter of 2018, the debt of the real sector, which is 222 billion dollars, is now reduced by $60 billion in two and a half years to 163 billion dollars. In the fourth quarter of 2019, Turkey's economy managed to grow by 4.5 per cent in the first quarter of 2020, until this outbreak of Covid. So, my dear friends, 9.9% smaller in the second quarter because of the Covid outbreak, then 6.7% larger in the third quarter.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0160par0112	Why is the Minister of Finance resigning...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0158par0113	See, according to the IMF, the public debt burden of developed countries, 104 per cent in 2019, is expected to rise to 124 per cent this year. Likewise, the public debt burden of developing countries, which were 52 per cent in 2019, will rise to 64 per cent, while Turkey is at 41 per cent. Mr. President, you see, Turkey was planning a $41 billion tourism target for this year, unfortunately, we closed at $11 billion; we made $30 billion out there. In the same way, our exports, which were 181 billion dollars last year, were intended to be $190 billion, but unfortunately, that's going to close at a number like 166 billion; we have a $24 billion loss. So because of this pandemic, there's been a $54 billion loss from these two pens alone.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0161par0116	Why didn't the Minister of Health give the data right?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0158par0117	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, since I've scheduled my speech, I'm going to have to skip some parts. As it is known, economics, law and democracy are important elements that are parallel to each other, so to speak, head of horses.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0162par0119	Without law and democracy, there's no economy?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0158par0120	In this small area, important reforms on both law and basic rights and freedoms have been carried out during the AK PARTI ruling period.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0162par0121	Without them, there's no money.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0158par0122	Of course, today, reforms will continue and continue. In law, democracy, what more reforms we can make in the field of fundamental rights and freedoms under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we will all talk together, and I believe the necessary steps will be taken.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0162par0123	It's been 20 years!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0158par0124	As the EC PARTI Group, we want law and democracy not only to raise our country's economic standards and attract foreign capital, but to increase the standards of our citizens' lives, to strengthen their rights and freedoms, to increase their well-being and happiness, but we regret to see that we are particularly interested in reducing the debates of law reform by some opposition environments to the release of terrorist supporters.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0162par0125	Does that include Bulent Arinc?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0158par0126	For example, CHP President Kemal Kilicdaroğlu will carry a medal of honor in his chest for the terrorist prisoner Demirtaş and arrested Osman Kavala. He uses his statement.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0162par0127	Does that include Bulent Arinc?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0163par0128	That's what Bulent Arinc said, Bulent Arinc.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0158par0129	Understanding the evacuation of terrorist supporters from law reform is, in its lightest terms, disparity. On September 7, 2015, Mr. Kilicdaroglu was awarded a medal of honor by Demirtaş in a statement made during the pit actions against the Turkish Armed Forces...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0164par0131	Shut up, man, it's a shame. What are you yelling about? Is that what we did?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0165par0132	It's a shame.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0166par0133	Guys, please, what is this? [[Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, ……]] Just a minute, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0167par0136	Mr. President, I can't talk. Put it on my timer.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0166par0137	Guys, I can't hear a meaningful sentence, it's noise, noise. Please, don't disturb the General Assembly. Look, don't make me take any more precautions about this! Please... everyone's accusing someone, there's no such thing. I promised the clerk on the stand, I didn't promise anyone else. Please...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0167par0138	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0166par0140	Let them go forth, and let them speak in private.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0167par0141	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs... [[Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, ……]] Mr. President, this is...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0166par0144	Mr. Mush, wait a minute, let him calm down... I'll add it to your time. Mr. Deputy Directors, please report to your own groups... you know, this is a violation of the Civil Code, it's a warning violation, it's an obstruction of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0168par0146	Mr. President, our President...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0169par0147	Tell them, tell them!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0166par0148	Whoever it is, whatever party it's from, that's what I'm saying to all of you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0168par0149	Mr. President, I wish you would have warned the AK PARTY when Mr. President was speaking.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0170par0150	Is that what we did?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0166par0151	But it wasn't like that, Mr. President-General could speak. He's on the stand, you don't let him talk. Please... Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0153	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, for example, CHP President Kemal Kılıçdaroglu, the convicted terrorist, Demirtaş and arrested Osman Kavala, will carry a medal of honor in their chests for their trial. Understanding the evacuation of terrorist supporters from law reform is, in its lightest terms, disparity. On September 7, 2015, Demirtaş, who was awarded the medal of honor, stated that he was in favor of PKK against the Turkish Armed Forces, saying that all armies were helpless against the people; and Erdoğan's army and police were defeated, and they will be defeated again. Look, the honorable MPs, there are no people in their pit actions, there are PKK. Demirtaş knowingly stated that he supports the PKK against our security forces. This army is neither the army of Ne Tayyip Erdogan nor the palace; this army is the army of the Turkish nation; this police is the police of the Turkish nation. (AK PARTY) And the need for those pits has already been made by our hero Mehmetchik. What are you trying to do by ignoring Demirtaş, who declared that he did not consider the child murderer PKK as a terrorist organization at every turn? Osman Kavala, another person with whom Mr. Kilicdaroglu was awarded the Medal of Honor, says on 4 August 2015, İMC Television: "In some cases, an opposition movement has a role in determining the politics of the armed opposition movement. Look, the armed opposition says. Although some have compared the PKK with ISIS and other organisations, they are legitimizing it here. Currently, the PKK is an organisation capable of making rational politics, which they express in its talks by its spokesman. Now, look, I'm speaking to the CHP Group: These eulogies you're talking about are called Kavala's armed opposition. Are there armed opposition in democracies? When a gun gets involved, it's not called opposition, it's terrorism. (CHP rows) Now I ask you, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, with what wisdom, with what conscience, with what understanding do you give honor to these terrorist lovers? Let it not be forgotten that in this country, those who deserve the Medal of Honor are our sainted martyrs and veterans who stand their ground in the fight against terrorism.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0172par0156	Open up the shop, open up the shop.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0157	Mr. President, I regret to say again that for the first time in the history of Turkey, the president of an opposition party has asked the president of another country to intervene in the internal affairs of Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0173par0158	You're a liar!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0159	The CHP's President and foreign policy adviser asked the elected President of the United States to intervene in the internal affairs of Turkey. The CHP who gave up on the chest, the nation...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0174par0160	Why don't you make a choice first, make a choice right now?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0161	...before the U.S. election, Turkey gives a green light to the mentality that it will support opposition and bring down power.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0174par0162	If you've got the guts, take the choice, now.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0163	This is a disgrace to the CHP. In fact, a sound of common sense within the CHP has been reported to expect a call from foreigners for democracy. The CHP has reacted to its administration using its statement. A friend of yours tells me that even he's uncomfortable.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0174par0164	He said that for you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0165	It is a great contrast to those who ask the U.S. to intervene in the affairs of Turkey to speak of the spirit of Kuvaimilli at every opportunity. Let us make it clear that this call is not a reflection of Kuvaimillia, but of the mandatory mentality. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Basically, CHP has moved on to Peace, peace in the land of Ataturk, peace in the country. Whom Turkey is friends with and who it is enemies with.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0175par0166	There aren't any friends left.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0167	We have an understanding of whatever country Turkey has a problem with. While we explain that we will give all support to our Azerbaijan brothers against the invasion of Armenia, CHP's foreign policy advisor (Turkey sends Syrian jihadists to Azerbaijan). He has expressed his thesis and expressed the arguments of Armenia. The world heard this slander from CHP before Armenia. Again, the CHP spoke of the lie that Turkey pierced the arms embargo in Libya before its enemies in Turkey. The Turkish Armed Forces are teaching weapons to young children in Syria. The CHP has also slandered Turkey with its words. Why is there no Turkey in the eastern Mediterranean? When Turkey made a deal with Libya, it was the CHP again that showed the contradiction of saying, "What are we doing in Libya?" In the past few days...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0176par0171	We're still saying, what are we doing in Libya?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0172	Look, my dear friends, your Mr. President is making headlines to the Greek media. What does the Greek media say, listen to him, forget the others. Recently, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, a German frigate led by a Greek soldier, is trying to justify a raid against international law on a cargo ship carrying aid supplies -- a Turkish cargo ship, a Turkish flag. They didn't give you five hours... and I won't give you ten hours, man, and you can't get on that ship without my permission! You can't, international law says that. There's no way you can get out if you don't answer. What reason do you have for this piracy against our own country?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0176par0173	Shame on you, shame on you! We've known that ship before anyone else; it's rude of you to do so.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0175	Did you know that the Greek press happily gave away your words accusing Turkey?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0176par0176	Friend, we know each other before anyone else. Shame on you!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0177	Look, what the Greek press says in the headline: I don't say it, Greece takes courage from this statement. The Turkish opposition justified the search of the Greek commander on the ship bound for Libya.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0177par0178	It takes courage from your weakness, no explanation, no courage from your weakness.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0179	It's a sad thing. I feel sorry for the opposition, for the main opposition. If I were the main opposition leader, I wouldn't be able to face my own group if the newspapers in Greece made this headline.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0177par0181	Feel sorry for yourself.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0182	Unfortunately, such opposition is not a means of benefiting Turkey, but a shackles on Turkey's foot. We regret to inform you that the CHP is uncomfortable with Turkey's achievements. For example, in the Black Sea, we found Turkey's largest natural gas reserves. As a nation, we are all pleased with this discovery, but the president of the CHP did not comment or comment, as if such a development had never occurred in this country.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0178par0184	What's the minimum wage?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0185	Friends, if you win the election in October 2023, you will bring the gas, be proud of it. We're not gonna take the gas and go, it's right there. In comparison, some CHP executives have tried to explain how harmful it is to find natural gas. They've reached the point where we should apologize for almost finding natural gas. Of course, we attribute it to this mentality, what a CHP executive once said: "Even if you do the right thing in the world, we can't be applauded." I leave such opposition to the public's discretion. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, are a blessed roof where all problems are discussed, discussed, resolved with our nation.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0178par0188	Come to the budget!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0179par0189	Tell me about the budget!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0190	Politics is a transparent process with the nation, not a closed process of secret negotiations. We, the EC PARTY, together with the National Movement Party, formed the Cumhur Alliance under the spirit of national unity and unity that formed after July 15th. Whatever we did, whatever steps we took, we did it transparently in front of our nation. We've never had anything hidden from our nation, but we regret to learn today that we're dealing with people who are sneaking around behind closed doors, who are working in political engineering. Ibrahim Kaboglu explains this, not my words. Ask Ibrahim Bey. (CHP rows) Look, before the 2018 elections, in secret from the public, we've learned that Ibrahim Kaboglu (Abraham Kaboğlu)'s statements... are working on an alliance of constitutional amendments under the name HDP, CHP and Saadet Party's new constitution study.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0180par0191	Berat Colonel...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0192	CHP MP İbrahim Kaboglu made it clear that between January 2018 and April 2018, these works were conducted in public, including HDP (HDP). Look, it means that Mr. Akşener, who today called the HDP "terror organization" "PKK extension," used the political representation of the Kurdish political movement for political gain only that day; the dates are the same friends.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0181par0193	Come to the budget, to the budget. The shopkeeper asks, the shopkeeper calls.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0194	Again, we are learning from the statements of the People's Democratic Party (HDP) Sırrıyya Önder. Look, none of these are my statements, but the statements of the People's Democratic Party (HDP) Sırrıyya Önder. From the HDP, which Mr. Coral Akşener called the PKK extension, before the local elections, Sırrıyya Önder says, "Who shall we work with here?" How do we work? What is your opinion? They sent us instruments, he says. WHAT GOOD PARTY did -- these were done in secret from the nation -- I call political corruption. You can go out in public, you can go out and study the Constitution, but tell people there's no point in sneaking around.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0182par0196	Tell me about the budget!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0197	The voter, who voted for the GOOD PARTY, gave HDP meetings without knowing them. They didn't go public before the 2018 elections.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0183par0198	Tell us about the public-special co-operation contracts, and we'll know it publicly.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0199	If a significant number of voters who described themselves as a nationalist had known that the talks were being held with the HDP, which he considered a red line, perhaps he would not have voted for the PARTI. Look, as a matter of fact, there are three important names from the founders of the GOOD PARTY, Coral Akşener, Koray Aydın, Umit Özdağ, and Umit Özdağ have left.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0184par0201	Guys...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0202	FROM the founders of the well - being, we learn from the explanations of Umit Özdağ. IN THE wake of negotiations with Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) he said yes to change the first three articles of the Constitution (the Constitution) -- these are the explanations of the Umit Özdağ (the Constitution) -- even to cooperate in some steps that would disrupt the unitary structure.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0185par0203	In our religion, corruption is forbidden, Mr. Mush. The House doesn't make mischief.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0204	I gave a warning earlier in the budget talks when I expressed the cooperation of the GOOD PARTY-HDP. That's when they insulted us, but it was caught red-handed psychology. Look, in İzmir, I don't mean any MP, I don't mean any friend of ours, I don't want the MPs there to be picked up because I said "Izmir" -- it's a general expression for the policies of the PARTI.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0185par0205	What did you do with the money, the money?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0206	Of course, it has been absorbed in the common constitution with the HDP (HDP) and the People's Democratic Party (HDP) (HDP) and the People's Party (HDP) (HDP).
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0186par0207	You will accept the mayor of the capital city of Soyer Izmir.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0208	It's your turn.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0186par0209	You'll take it! You'll take it!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0210	In addition, we understand from this secret constitutional study that the CHP has abandoned the Ataturk nationalism it sees as a red line and has left its principles aside for the HDP. So the entire Republican People's Party has come to the line of Istanbul's mayor, who is clearly uncomfortable with the expression of his last name. Dear MPs, one of our duties is to protect Ataturk (Ataturk) from CHP abuse. Mr. President, we have carefully listened to opposition parties' criticism of the Turkish budget, their administration, and the following policies, but we have seen that there is no unity of speech and action in the opposition, so the opposition has a credibility problem. The loan sharks in London said, "They went and took the $580 million."
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0187par0214	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0188par0215	Mr. Mush, did you ask Berat Bey for 128 billion dollars, my friend?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0216	Mr. President, why am I saying this? In the 2019 elections, our nation gave the capital city mayors to CHP. It's been almost two years. There is no reading in the municipalities under which CHP has established principles such as,, p,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.............,...........................................................................................................................................................................................................
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0189par0217	You'd fucking kill him if it didn't get read!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0218	CHP was always saying: "You go to thirty years ago, you go to fifty years ago. Look, I'm going to go to two years ago because for the first time, you've come to govern in one field.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0190par0219	Who said you sold the parcels? The CHP?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0220	For example, let's look at this matter of merit that the CHP has not dropped from its tongue.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0190par0221	Yeah, check it out.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0222	As the CHP administration has taken over the mayorate of İstanbul, Mr. Kilicdaroglu has promised that before the election he will not lay off any workers. He has laid off 11,706 people by June 30, forgetting his promise. There are among them ten or fifteen years of workers.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0191par0224	There are people who get paid before they get to work.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0225	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, since there is no Mr. Kilicdaroglu here, I ask his deputies, have you forgotten this promise of honor and honor?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0192par0226	They're ATMs.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0227	Why did you play with his bread? Are your promises only valid until election day? When the election's over, does your promise expire? This promise of honor and honor hangs in the ranks of the CHP.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0193par0229	We cut the hoses!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0230	Again, right after the CHP took office in İstanbul, İstanbul's most successful library director sent to the cemetery director to show him what CHP understands about merit. Look, they fired 11,000 people. At the same time, as of June 30th, they hired 18,102 people.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0194par0231	ATMs, ATMs, ATMs, ATMs.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0232	Why did you fire these people if you needed them? You needed it. Why did you throw it away? 18,102 people. So, how did the CHP get these, guys? He's gonna get it. Look, I've got an internal memo from CHP, dated 16/9/2019.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0194par0233	The ATMs are out of work!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0234	He's sending the mayor to the counties, he says, send the people who are applying in the city to the capital city, but... there's nothing here, right, and if he does, he'll lead them to the capital city. But he says you want to be a reference. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, my time is...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0195par0237	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0238	But if you want to be a reference, put it under your recommendation, send it to the county secretary's office. That, my friends, is their certificate of merit.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0196par0240	You don't hire non-members of the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0241	We used to give examples of the mogultai. He's the Attorney General. He says, "I'm going to take the MHP people and the Prosperity Party?" Of course, I gave it to my organization. Thirty years and forty years have passed, but nothing has changed in CHP. Same thing as soon as it comes in, it doesn't change. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Mr. President, let me give you another example. Well, there's a lot of examples, but there's a time limit, so... look, I'll give you another example. Miss Turkey, who participates in the beauty contest -- we have no objection -- is assigned as a member of the CHP youth arm, fashion design graduate, immediately to the CHP municipality, the capital city, career advisor in human resources. Yeah, well, at least look at his profession, whether he's a business graduate or a human resources graduate. But no, let's get them from the party, what they know about merit. (KAK PARTY APPLAUSE, CHP CENTRALS) CHP's, look, the vice-presidents of the province...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0197par0244	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0245	I'm out of time.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0197par0246	Okay, I'm not saying anything.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0247	Look, Mr. President, CHP's vice-presidents, look, the district is disbanded from the municipality, the ATM officer, they distribute, they get paid. (CHP rows) Now, look, these are ATM officers, no denial has come to this. Now, at every group meeting... look, Mr. Kemal said it here, and I want to believe what he said, but I can't believe it. It's not what they say they're doing. (CHP rows) Mr. President-General talks about the right to an orphan at each group meeting. I'm asking: where is the right to an orphan? Where's the right to a servant? Where's your sense of right of orphans here? What did the mayor of Adana Metropolitan say? What do you mean? Do I get the AK PARTY people? No, of course not. He said, "No." There's no changing head. Have you heard a single word from Kemal Bey about this, and have you heard a single reaction to my account? [[Noises from CHP rows]] As for corruption and transparency: nepotism and irregularity are on the line in the tenders of Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality. I'm going through a city, we don't have time. (CHP rows) For example, no friendly tenders.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0198par0250	You still can't stomach Istanbul!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0251	Friend, there's...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0199par0253	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0254	Are you in the central government? No.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0199par0255	Mr. Mush, just a minute...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0256	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0199par0257	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0258	Mr. President, I had to stand here and give everyone three minutes, five minutes. I beg of you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0199par0260	Okay, I'll take that under advisement.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0200par0261	Mr. Mush, who did you sell 128 billion dollars to?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0262	For example, look, mate for friend, wife for friend...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0199par0263	I add them because he can't speak.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0264	Mr. President, for example, there is no contract for a friend. The people promised their boss a mask deal.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0201par0265	Tell me about the pensioners!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0266	Yeah, now, they're all CHP municipalities.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0202par0267	Don't take off your mask, Mr. Gürer, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0268	Why did you give it to People TV's boss? Istanbul, Kadıköy, Bolu, İzmir, I'll give you four. Again, another CHP supporter was given seven times more expensive masks. (CHP rows) One example is, look, both the big city's own companies are negotiating; one takes 44 cents, and the other for 2.89. Between twenty days, they're both your own municipality. I mean, nepotism is on the line.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0203par0269	You're the authority, so do it.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0171par0270	The mayor of Yalova of CHP is answering the judiciary in the case of embezzlement and corruption of $20m. Look, I love Menemen, of Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu again...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0204par0274	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0205par0275	And do not slander, but do what is necessary. You are the authority.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0206par0276	You will not slander Mr. Mush, you are the power, do what you have to do.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0204par0277	Okay, calm down for a minute.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0207par0278	Mr. President, I can't hear myself, so let's just let them relax. It can be indigestion.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0204par0279	All right, you guys wait a minute, let him calm down, and I'll finish your time.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0208par0280	Well, aren't you in power, brother? Do what's necessary.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0209par0281	Do what you have to do!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0204par0282	Wait a second...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0209par0283	It's been five minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0210par0284	Mr. President, if what I say isn't true, let them go out and say it's not true. I have it in my file.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0209par0285	Tell me about the budget, tell me who you sold 128 billion dollars to!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0210par0286	Don't shout, sit down; you're caught, you're caught.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0211par0287	Who's holding your hand? Go do what you have to do!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0212par0288	You've been talking about Istanbul for half an hour, this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0210par0289	Mr. President, look, the People's Democratic Party (CHP) municipality of Yalova is answering to the judiciary in a lawsuit worth $20m in embezzlement and corruption.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0212par0290	Istanbul, Istanbul, that's enough!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0210par0291	Again, look, when Kilicdaroglu's nomination -- let me come back here -- I love Menemen. For that reason, I entrust our President to Menemen. The mayor of the CHP, Menemen, was arrested in 18 months on charges of corruption of $50m.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0212par0293	Shame on you!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0210par0294	Friends, please tell Mr. General President that he will no longer love any of our counties, that he will not entrust any of your mayors to our county; that 50 million he has entrusted. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Look, the newspaper headline: they ate Menemen. They ate Menemen. Look, Mr. Kemal...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0213par0298	Mr. Mehmet, we have relieved the mayor of Menemen.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0210par0299	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0214par0300	Mr. Mush, I've got it all figured out, I'll give you a deadline, so let's complete it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0210par0301	Mr. President, look, they cut there for at least five minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0214par0302	It's not five, it's seven.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0210par0303	You gave Mithat Bey five minutes. I beg of you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0214par0304	Now I'll give you the seventh minute, and I'll take them into account for the cutting. Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0215par0306	Mr. Mush, tell me in detail who you sold 128 billion dollars to. Come on, we've been waiting for you for 50 minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0216par0307	Mr. President, look, I'm explaining my point here because I've been interrupted.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0214par0308	Okay, you guys talk, I'll take that under advisement.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0216par0309	Now, look, fellas, there's an event going on at the Beylikdüzü Municipality, and on paper, writers have been invited. I mean, look, there was a period of imaginary exports, imaginary exports, and the CHP, in a similar way, introduced imaginary activity corruption into corruption literature, the first party was CHP. (AS/TK) Before the election, the CHP called it "derman municipalism," and after the election, it turned into mayoral. Look, Kemal Bey had a dream, he said: "I was a candidate for Istanbul Mayor before the 2019 elections" -- I'm going to do family insurance, I'm going to give $600 to every needy family. It's a beautiful, beautiful project. Now you have Istanbul City, come on, give me this 600 lira. 600 liras in 2009 is $1.818 in today's figures.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0217par0311	You don't even understand that.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0216par0312	Come on, don't give me $1,818, give me 1,500. And according to your mayor, 475 thousand families need it, so let's deal, let's distribute, let's distribute. Why don't you give it away?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0218par0314	Mr. Mush, please...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0216par0315	Mr. President, look, I beg you...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0218par0316	You're right, okay, I've gone far enough...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0216par0317	You give me five minutes, I'll finish up and go.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0218par0318	One minute, I took them into account.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0216par0319	They don't make me talk.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0218par0320	Please let's finish.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0216par0321	Mr. President, look, the bottom line is that those who can't manage a city's budget properly, can't rule Turkey for an understanding that runs corruption and nepotism through their legs.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0219par0323	Those who sell Ankara parcels...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0216par0324	What did you do in the municipalities where people gave you authority? What did you do other than open the projects that the EC PARTI had finished in İstanbul Municipality of CHP, and seek loans to drive Ankara Metropolitan Mayor and the Mayor of İzmir of CHP into debt, and greet PKK sympathizers in the ditch with separate flags, separate money. It's been two years, and you've got nothing on your hands but that tap. Look, we're the ones who restore the fountain, they just put on the tap. Oh, by the way, look at the faucet, the tap might not work! [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have insulted teachers who have insulted artists who don't think like themselves, who don't vote for them.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0220par0328	Guys, as long as you're interrupting, and you're not talking, I'm adding time so he can talk. Please... there is no such thing! No! No noise, no.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0221par0330	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0220par0331	Mind your own business, Mr. Aqır, get to work! Please... mind your business! [[Noises from CHP rows]] Guys, we're gonna talk, we're gonna talk, we're gonna talk, we're gonna talk, we're gonna talk, Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0222par0335	An understanding that insults artists who don't think like him, humiliate teachers who don't vote for him, say he'll seize some newspapers if he comes to power, claiming that voting for the AK PARTI is illegal, can't give us a lesson in democracy! [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Mr. President, where there's no security, there's no economic development, there's no peace and prosperity, there's no improvement. To do so, the fight against terrorism is of great importance. Our government's determination to fight terrorism in recent years has led to great success on this road. Of course, our government is fighting not only terrorists, but those who are aiding terrorists, who are political spokesmen to them. The dismissal of mayors who basically support terrorism is also an important step towards draining the financing of terrorism, destroying its resources. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0223par0340	Mr. Mush, let's say hello, please. Two minutes... okay. Let's say hello, let's finish, let's finish. I'll give you one minute.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0224par0344	The dismissal of mayors who basically support terrorism is also an important step towards draining the financing of terrorism, destroying its resources. The municipality's mayors, who have offered their municipal resources to the terrorist organisation, the mountain militants, the terrorist organization's supporters who employ in the municipality, are responsible for PKK's acts of terrorism.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0223par0346	Guys, I can't hear you. We'll count on that for a while. That could never happen!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0224par0347	Those who oppose trustee deployment are either political spokesman for the terrorist organization or political parties that co-operate with them.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0223par0349	You can't hear it, it's just a noise, it's like machine work...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0224par0350	These are the people who tried to lynch the mothers of Diyarbakır who reacted to the people who took their child to the mountain. These are the blind, deaf, mute mothers who ran to the mayors of terror who had been dismissed in Diyarbakır province, where they cried out for their child. So, these mothers, the Turkish enemy HDP and...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0225par0351	You're the enemy of Turkey, you!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0224par0352	...returning to his MPs, your child shouts out in private schools, our children are either in prison or under the ground. The mothers say to the terror barons, "That's enough! [[Noises from HDP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0226par0357	You've got mud coming out of your mouth, mud!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0227par0358	Mr. Mush, I'm done, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0224par0359	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0227par0361	Okay, you're right, but that's enough. No, it's okay.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0224par0362	Mr. President, I will.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0227par0364	I get it. I mean, not so much, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0224par0365	The two hands of our government support this terror...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0227par0366	Mr. Mush, say hello, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0224par0367	Mr. President, believe me, they cut me off from this noise for at least ten minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0227par0368	I'm following you, and I didn't want to give you an opportunity to be unfair, but please, okay.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0224par0369	Mr. President, I'm tidying up. Mr. President, I beg you to give me a few minutes at the beginning of my speech.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0227par0371	It's been over ten minutes, Mr. Mush, please, okay.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0224par0372	They cut me off for ten minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0228par0373	Are you occupying the podium? You're occupying the bench, you can't invade the people's bench!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0227par0374	I'm not turning on the mic.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0224par0375	Mr. President, yes. Guys, this isn't about you, and you might have a hard time, but I know.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0227par0378	Please welcome the General Assembly, let's finish Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0224par0379	I am, Mr. President. Friends, I'm going to say two words to the PKK. Why are you trying to silence me? Let me tell you. I don't get it. Come on, it's uncomfortable here.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0229par0382	Go wash your mouth!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0224par0383	Mr. President, look, I'm packing.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0230par0384	Mr. Mush, please, let's say hello to the General Assembly, over.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0224par0385	I'm saluting, I'm tidying up. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, look, something has just been said, taken from the HDP building to the mountain...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0230par0387	Mr. Mush, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0224par0388	I'm picking it up. He can't talk about child's rights after those who ignore them and slaughter children in the womb, who feel sorry for live bombs. Those who do not distance themselves from terrorism, those who use violence as means and those who cooperate with them in order to win elections will not forget this nation.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0230par0390	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0224par0391	Our state is great, our nation is a saint. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Turkey, the great and powerful, is taking positive steps in its path.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0230par0394	Mr. Mush, your time is up. Please...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0224par0395	With these feelings, I salute the General Assembly as I end my words.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0231par0397	Bravo, bravo!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0232par0398	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0233par0399	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0232par0400	When you're done, you'll probably say.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0233par0401	Wait a minute, Mr. Altay, wait a second... when the AK PARTY Group talks are complete, I'll promise the taunts.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0234par0402	It can't be done.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0232par0403	I demand a broad word.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0233par0404	That's what we did, that's what we're gonna do. Mr. Oluç, the same way.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0235par0406	Mr. President, we haven't heard anything about the budget.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0233par0407	Who talked about the budget, Mr. Aydoğan? I've never heard of it in the others before.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0236par0408	How can you say that, Mr. President, is that your justice?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0233par0409	Dear friends, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the second speaker is Deputy President and İstanbul MP, Mr. Numan Survivor. Here you go, Mr. Survivor. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0237par0413	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I begin by saying that Bismillah is the head of every charity. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I wish that our budget of 2021 would be a blessing and auspicious, and that the ideas set out in these budget talks would shed light on the activities that will take place next year. As it is known, budgets have two sides. One is debates about where that budget is being used, how its resources are being used, how its resources are being used, and the second part of the budgets is setting up the basis for political debates, not by shouting like this, but by mind, by view, political debates. (EC PARTY) I hereby wish that this budget would provide a good basis for our political debates about next year and the coming years. We're all -- the previous speakers have expressed -- one of the most important points of transition in human history. Not just us, but our grandchildren, and later generations, will remember 2020 as the beginning of a time when the world was facing the greatest changes. In the process of changing because of the pandemic, we've seen a lot of radical changes in every aspect of social life, and we're going to continue to witness it. Many things will change from education to health care, working conditions to production and supply methods. More radically than that, we can clearly say that the seeds of a new financial and global political architecture, especially on a global scale, will start to come out from this year. So it's important for big countries like us to focus on and discuss the general national goals for the years to come that fall into the parliaments of the countries who claim to be. The geography we are in has been reminded before, of the eastern Mediterranean, the Balkans, the Caucasus. This geography, Asia Minor, Mesopotamian geography is a geography with the greatest changes, transformations, throughout history. We're a country that's paid the nation a great price for being here. At a time when new power equations were set up in this region, Turkey is one of the countries that will play a vital role in establishing these power equations. For him, in countries like us, when we discuss Turkey's budget, we need to discuss not only some financial size but also the goals ahead of Turkey. I want to underline that we all -- our political ideas can be different, our perspectives may be different -- but we all have a common goal to re-establish the great, powerful Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] From now on, I'm going to enter the rest of my conversation, but if you'll excuse me -- I wish he were here too -- and I don't mean to be sarcastic, but I'd like to underline a few basic issues here in terms of clearing up some issues. In the general president's speech -- a few friends have spoken, they will talk -- one of which is that one of which is really offensive is the definition of a soldier. I would never accuse my Republican People's Party friend of being a lead soldier. No friend of ours in the AK PARTY group is a soldier of lead; they are wise, compassionate, conscientious, faithful patriots.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0238par0421	They say we're soldiers.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0237par0422	I'm not... speaking from you. Another important issue, which I will stress, is that you have doubts about the structure of the state, returning to the AK PARTY group. Let me put it this way: you have problems. AK PARTY has no problem with the structure of the state. The EC PARTY is at the centre of the political staff governing the Republic of Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Third, we're going to bring democracy in the first election. I'm going to say the exact same thing. Democracy came within the conditions of that day, in the last period of the Ottoman Empire, even in the context of that day's single party, but after the 1950 elections, democracy came to this country and was the truest democracy ever paid for. (AK PARTY) In the 1950 elections, the nation who cried after the fallen Prime Minister, despite being taken to the execution tables by the elected Prime Minister, who was elected by the people's lawful vote, had held democracy until the end. On September 12th, thousands of citizens were eliminated on the right and on the left. Despite the rule of September 12th, this nation claimed democracy. On February 28th, the elected government was taken down by Alicengiz games and adjusted to democracy with tanks, palettes, while this nation owned democracy everywhere and in this Parliament. In addition, this nation claimed democracy under this roof on the night of July 15th, with each one of you contributing to it, just ahead of us in Reday Square, claimed it in General Square, paid for its blood, was the most holy democracy in the world. Democracy has come to this nation, democracy has been internalized by the nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Another important matter...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0239par0428	Can you rewind it for five years?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0237par0429	My dear brothers, if you have anything to say, your Deputy Director of the Group is there. I assume you won't object to any of this.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0239par0430	That's not what you said in 2015!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0237par0431	Now, let me read the same sentence, it says that when the Turkish merchant ship was stopped - Mr. Kilicdaroglu -- we learned the truth after the statement of the EU authorities. Friends, we learn the truth not from the explanation of the EU, the authorities of the United States, but from the explanation of the authorities of the Republic of Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Finally, early elections... every opposition party wants an early election. This is also important in democracy, but there are no rational conditions and political conditions for early elections in Turkey. The Republic Alliance, formed by the EC PARTY and the National Movement Party, is on its way to the national issues. Recep Tayyip Erdogan will be re-elected by the legal vote of this nation in the elections in 2023. (AK PARTY) Today I heard only one hopeful thing from Mr. Kilicdaroglu, who signaled that he could run for 2023 elections. If Mr. Kilicdaroglu is nominated for 2023 elections or a friend from the Republican People's Party is nominated for power, we'll open our mouths and say something. We respect democracy to the end, and we want democracy to function in the best possible way. (AK PARTY) However, respecting those elected in Turkey's democracy is as essential as believing in democracy.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0240par0436	Why are there trustees, trustees?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0237par0437	My dear brothers, I had to make these statements.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0240par0438	The trustees are in the middle, look at the trustees.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0237par0439	Now, the point is, we're going through a very difficult time because of the Corona epidemic. In 2020, there was a serious cost of $4 trillion. Besides, government support, economic loss, $4 trillion... With government support, that number went up to $15 trillion. If this continues in 2021, the world's economy will shrink another $5.6 trillion, unfortunately. As Turkey, no doubt we've had our share of that. Turkey, by doing its part in this environment, our health care system has worked most effectively -- I don't even want to discuss it -- both the strength of our medical staff, the strength of our health system, and the measures we've taken in time, and we've managed to succeed in health. We have all witnessed articles praising Turkey in the World Health Organization and most of the world's health magazines. Besides, we've carried out every responsibility we have in the economy to keep the counter from falling apart. I don't want to go into detail because there's no time left, but I just want to say that not breaking the supply chain was one of our most important achievements in the process.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0240par0441	Why don't we hear from you, like Aaron, to come and go like Karun?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0241par0443	Oh, shut up! That's enough! Shame on you!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0242par0444	Guys, you just said it!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0243par0445	Wait a minute, I'll teach him a lesson. I'm not going to come like Harun and go like Karun. I did what he said when I was elected president of the Ponzi Party General Assembly in 2008.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0244par0446	Who did you say it for?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0243par0447	Honey, I told you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0244par0448	Who did you say it for?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0243par0449	I made a promise to myself, and to this day, I've moved on as Aaron.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0244par0451	Who did you say it for?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0243par0452	I still live in my dad's 80-year-old apartment.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0244par0453	Turkey is listening. It wasn't directed at you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0243par0454	All of Turkey...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0244par0455	Turkey is listening.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0243par0456	Then I'm responsible for what I said.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0245par0458	Guys, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0243par0459	Thank you. Did I say something wrong? I said the right thing.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0246par0460	No, you said the right thing. Congratulations on what you just said.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0243par0461	I keep doing this with my life, and I'm gonna keep doing this until I die, and it's gonna be my biggest legacy to my children.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0246par0463	It wasn't about your person, come to your source, your source.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0247par0464	Congratulations.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0248par0465	Go ahead, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0249par0466	Dear brothers and sisters, with our great development in the third quarter of 2020, hopefully we'll get through a positive growth -- even if it's small. With the world economy in the first period of 2021, and the second term of 2022, there will be significant developments in Turkey's economy, and positive developments. We know it's on budget. We have a budget deficit of around 4.5%. This Maastricht Criters is a little over three percent, but compared to other countries, we're extremely important. Also G-20, Turkey continues its budget at a reasonable level in all developed countries in terms of budget deficits. My dear brothers and sisters, according to World Bank estimates, this is the first time the developing nation's economies have experienced such a narrowing down of the gross domestic product after 60 years. Yeah, well, in the meantime, we didn't get the counter messed up. In order to support our citizens financially, $600 billion has been raised from the Turkish Republic's treasury. In this sense, Turkey will continue to develop really strongly from mid-2021, providing price stability and financial stability, keeping the real economy alive, the real sector. So as we've always stressed, we're not going to have the counter broken. My fellow lawmakers, we have not given up on our love of investment in Turkey during this whole Covid epidemic. Dozens of hospitals, dozens of power plants, billions of dollars in defence industry investments, countless bridges, thousands of miles of road, open to the service of our nation during that time.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0250par0470	His money's on allies?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0249par0471	In this sense, we will continue to maintain investments in Turkey and public investments. In the coming period, we have to take more solidarity than ever, more rational steps than ever. Taking measures to boost confidence in this framework, especially in the economy, will be one of the key leverages of our economic governance. We are aware of the problems of our investors, of the problems and difficulties of our citizens. We'll put these rational policies into practice, hopefully, in order to overcome them. Precious lawmakers, especially when we look at the 18-year history of AK PARTI rulings in Turkey, when Turkey faces a challenge, major reforms have been implemented and Turkey's troubles have been overcome. The year 2021 will be the year of both economic and legal reforms for our country. I'd just like to remind you that the AK PARTI reforms came from the economic and political crises of 2002. Those in preparation for the coup in 2007 managed to get the AK PARTY out of the process they started with the closing of the party by leaning on the nation and implementing the reform process. In 2008 and 2009, the crisis scenarios that have been created at various times in the financial crises of 2008 and 2009, and the last one has always been overcome by the July 15 coup attempt, with the support of the nation, with the will of the EC PARTI government to reform the country. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, next year, the year 2021 will be the year when the reformer side of the EC PARTY will be examined once again. THE aim of reform is sound, permanent, strong, and serious. No one can doubt that. Our two esteemed ministers, our Treasury and Finance Minister and our Minister of Justice, are consulting with all concerned about the reform process for the coming period. Hopefully, after these are matured, Turkey will come here to the political institution and meet its new reforms with the final form of the political institution. I just want to share with you here the main framework of these reforms, the general framework. And if you'll excuse me, I'd like to count these as items: 1) The rules of the competitive social policy-axis market economy will be based on this reform process. 2) We will decide on this reform process with common experience as a result of consultations with all the conditions that affect competitive markets in the most obvious way, with NGOs, business, foreign-based investors, and all other relevant partners. 3) With reforms, we will strengthen transparency, cognitiveness, and accountability. 4) The basic priority of structural transformation in the field of economics and our reforms is a national production-based development strategy. We will implement the most effective measures in this process to increase growth in production-oriented reforms, reduce dependence on imports and reduce current deficits. 5) The epidemic changes the practices, production techniques, and processes of working life in many economies of the world, including consumer behavior, and even economic mentality. As a natural result of these processes, technological, social and economic transformations and transformations will be the most prominent on our country's agenda. We will accept change and transformation in these areas as one of the most important synergy sources of this period. 6) A simultaneous movement in our reforms will be our main framework, which is that 18 years of practice both in Turkey and the AK PARTI (AK) showed us that 70 years of multi-party political life is successful if economic, political and legal reforms are carried out simultaneously. In this framework, the AK PARTY will, hopefully, continue in its new reform process, with these six basic principles in its framework. At the beginning of my words, the great nations must have great goals. It is a fact that the great nations face great trials and have been seen many times throughout history. Yes, our region is changing, the world is changing; such a change is affecting everything, everywhere, and Turkey is in the process of changing. By Allah's will, he has captured a beautiful momentum by the will of the nation, and he will continue to walk towards the goal of Turkey, strong and great. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In this world's historic reconstruction process, we will make the best of all the opportunities and opportunities our country has. In this sense, the 2021 budget has been a budget in which our country's resources and opportunities are best assessed around the ideal of Turkey, again, strong and large. This new era is the beginning of a new era that we can call the unstoppable rise of Turkey. For this reason, there are some circles that are uncomfortable with the strong rise of Turkey; whether some policies happen or not; some countries happen; there are; there are and will continue to be. However, Turkey, without taking any step back in dealing with all these complicated and objective issues, prioritizing our national interests in these problems in no way, will overcome the problems of our nation and our government, with the firm stance of our nation, with the discreet policies, and will continue to overcome them, with the permission of Allah. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, let me give you a few examples of what you would call the unstoppable rise of Turkey. Turkey has entered a period in our national industry, especially in our national defence industry, when its investments have increased exponentially. Before me, our dear friends made it very clear. I'm not counting one by one, but I think it's pretty clear that we're dealing with a very flattering outcome for each of our fellow lawmakers. The locality rate in Turkey's national defence industry has reached about 70 per cent, thank God. We're going to take this further, and hopefully Turkey will come to a much stronger place than this. And let me make it very clear by opening parentheses here that we're having an S-400 discussion -- I'm not going to argue -- we're having an F-35 discussion, aren't we? Why are these discussions being discussed behind the scenes? Shouldn't we examine it? They know that if Turkey continues in this direction, it will soon establish its own air defence system, and Turkey will soon build its own national combat plane. This is the unstoppable rise of Turkey. The eastern Mediterranean has been discussed. We will continue our search in the eastern Mediterranean, no matter what anyone says. Remember -- I don't forget that photo, let's put it up in our homes -- there goes the Oruç Reis ship, surrounded by Turkish frigates, Turkish helicopters, and Turkish planes flying on top of them. Before we declared NAVTEX there and sent Oruç Reis to search activities, do we receive warnings from many altars, especially in the European Union, that do not search here, that our relations will be ruined? He was coming. Who cares about their warnings? (EA/DG) Turkey continues its march towards its national goals by Allah's permission. Turkey will also seek oil in the Black Sea, searching for natural gas. Turkey will also look for oil and natural gas in the Mediterranean, and hopefully we will get positive results from them. In our Cyprus and Libyan policies, we continue to walk uncompromisingly and decisively. It has just been said -- we have studied the map of Sevilla, we have memorized that map -- although the map of Sevilla was not accepted as the official opinion of the European Union, it was a map of the great oppression that imposed on Turkey in its blue homeland, almost Turkey -- as our president called it -- would not allow it to fish in its own land waters. By making a deal with the legitimate Libyan government, we broke the restrictions set by this map, and Turkey continues its course by declaring it an isolated economic zone in the Eastern Mediterranean. Dear brothers and sisters, while we continue our relations with the government that the United Nations has legitimized, some of whom have supported the Hafter administration, unfortunately, we have suffered a great deal of grief. My dear brothers, we will never compromise our Cyprus policy. The same thing happened before the opening of the closed Marashan in Cyprus. With the support of France, the Greeks said in the words of some speakers from some countries, "Don't open Marash." But on the day of the opening of Maraş, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, our President of Northern Cyprus, Mr. Ersin Tatar, the President of the Nationalist Movement Party, Mr. President of the State Garden, and we, together, celebrated the founding anniversary of our Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, followed by a visit by the Turks. (APPLAUSE) It's been a rainy day, and I think we've all come to realize a very pleasant day in a big shower that we can't forget. Dear brothers, let's come to another unstoppable rise of Turkey, ha, old Turkey, when you're told anything about these things, don't take your nose out. When you're told, we wouldn't take our noses out there either. Wait for your turn in that corner. When it was said, we were kept in line on one foot, and now those times are behind us. Turkey continues its march in this direction. My dear brothers and sisters, in Karabakh, we will never be able to pass without remembering the great victory there. First, we congratulate our Azerbaijan brothers once again on this historic victory. Our government, our nation, our Turkish Grand National Assembly, all the members of our nation, are sincerely congratulating their Azerbaijan brothers for this glorious victory in Karabağ. In the matter of Karabakh, we never turned our way against those who wanted to provoke the international community against both Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) and against Turkey. In a very effective battle, Azerbaijan fulfilled the dream of twenty-nine years in a month and a half, and Karabağ became the land of Azerbaijan. Karabağ is Azerbaijan, and he will remain Azerbaijan until the end of time! [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear brothers, another indication of Turkey's unstoppable rise is the opening of the Ayasofya Mosque-i Kebir. It's in our archives, who says what from Europe, who says what from America, who says what from inside and out, they're all in our archives. Don't open it, or don't make it a mosque in any way. Despite what they said, the Republic of Turkey has walked decisively on its way. Following the decision of the Supreme Court, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, under the decree of the government, with the presidential decree, turned the Ayasofya Mosque into freedom of origin and opened it as a mosque.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0251par0498	What about the court decision?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0249par0499	If I had time, I'd give you eight or ten more examples of Turkey's unstoppable rise, and we could talk about it outside. The mosque of Ayasophia will remain open and open as the sanctuary of our Muslim nation until the end of the day. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, we will never compromise some of our basic principles in the process of interfering, as we continue to pursue this primordial and decisive stand in the direction of a strong, great Turkey target. While dealing with regional and global problems, we will never give up six basic principles while expressing Turkey's arguments against challenges internationally. 1) We will act rationally, but we will move on without ever giving up our national interests. 2) We are prepared to negotiate in accordance with the independence of the nations and the sovereignty of the states with equal rights to all states and all international institutions, but we can't give you this, let's give it to you. It is clear that those who offer Turkey a number of different statuses will receive from Turkey. We as equal partners speak to everyone, we are open to every negotiation by maintaining the sovereignty of this country as sovereigns, but in no way will we ever consent to any other, privileged, segregating treatment of Turkey, and we will never act that way. 3) We are the children of a righteous nation. What we call the state of the Republic of Turkey is not a peaceful state. We're talking under the shadow of the Veteran Assembly. We are a nation that has built a republic that is watered by the blood of many of our veterans, our great martyrs, from nothing, but we are also the descendants of Seljuclu, we are also the descendants of the Ottomans, we have a great state savings. For him, the rule is that all our contacts have now learned, once again from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: we do not deserve anyone and we do not give anyone our dues. (AK PARTY) Now, in Europe, politicians are talking, and so on, gentlemen are getting used to it, talking about urges from the time of imperialism. They're used to falling on the oil of the nations, they're used to falling on the gold of the nations, they're used to falling on the riches of the nations, they're even used to enslaved the black-skinned people of Africa, they're used to selling 150 million Africans to America, to Europe. That's how it works, they think. We don't have eyes on anyone's dirt like they do in their imperial vision.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0252par0505	Afrin! Afrin!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0249par0506	We don't have eyes on anybody's gold or anybody's eyes on a gram of oil.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0252par0507	Afrin! Afrin!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0253par0508	Afrin! Afrin!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0249par0509	Dear brothers and sisters, we will not let anyone take away our rights, our country's rights, as we do no one else's. 4) Our priority in unilateral and multilateral agreements is mutual co-operation and negotiating and consenting methods. We put these open methods of consent and negotiation on the main axis of our policy, so we keep the diplomacy table open under any circumstances or circumstances. For him, one of the basic skills we've had in the last three or four years to solve all of the major problems we've had is our power at the table that never messes up the table as much as we do in the field. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, my last few words.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0254par0513	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0249par0514	5) I'm talking about the rules of our foreign policy and our relationship with governments. We will continue to be spokesmen and pioneers of the oppressed and the oppressed nations. (EC PARTY) Because we know that Turkey is not just Turkey. We know that we have hundreds of millions of friends in Turkey who have been watching every step of the way, and, hopefully, we will continue to be the spokesmen, pioneers of all the oppressed and the oppressed nations. And finally, I'd like to share this rule once again: the doors to the establishment of a more righteous, freer, new world are wide open. With the Covid threat, without saying "rich, poor" in the world, we have no doubt that this country, this country, the one that controls everyone without saying, will set up a new, supportive, fair and just ground. For him, we are entering a period in which the word of those who have words based on justice and justice will stand. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In this sense, Turkey will continue to say that the world is greater than the five. A new world order will no longer be easy for tyrants, despots, imperialists, neoemperal forces to build. Together with all the oppressed and victimized nations of the world, Turkey will rule as a powerful star of this region, this geography, and this equation established on this planet, and Turkey's promise will be passed. For him, my dear brothers and sisters and sisters of Turkey, without giving up our ideal in any way, we will continue our journey, not only by pushing our 2021 budget on a basis, but by making it more powerful than what they call "strength power," but by ensuring that our nation will become more democratically advanced in the economy, and by making Turkey stronger in all international relations. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Whether they like it or not, one of the star states of the new world is Turkey. Blessed are you, as members of Turkey's Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I give you all my greetings, and I commend you to God, and I wish you a good day.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0255par0521	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0256par0522	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0255par0523	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0256par0524	He picked on me, and they picked on every orator, and they picked on our group. I'd like my word, sir, from my position or from the bench, that you're about to receive a tribute.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0255par0525	Please, from the stand...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0256par0527	Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0255par0528	Let's not get into any more bullying, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0256par0529	Absolutely, sir, be my guest. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I salute you and the Grand General Assembly. I have a promise to the Republican People's Party Group: You don't understand Mehmet Mush, you've beaten Mehmet Mush, so bullying is a ritual, but you've exhausted it. Friends, Mehmet Mush is here preparing himself for the opposition, don't you understand? (CHEERING) He's preparing himself for the opposition. We didn't see that Mr. Mushah was defending the budget of his party's administration, which he went from head to toe between Kemal Kilicdaroğlu and Ekrem Imamoglu. Of course, this is one thing, folks, let's be very understanding, is that our President-General's speech in the budget today broke Mehmet Bey's contract, which is normal. That's how we're gonna take it. Mehmet Mush went all the way to the bench invasion, usually the opposition to the takeover, but that's different. I will not respond to criticisms before 2002, my dear brother, because before you, there was Mr. State Gardener in the coalition that ruled Turkey, and if they approve, they will respond to criticism about the period before you, and we were not there.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0257par0536	I said the 90s, don't mix them up.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0256par0537	However, Mr. Saved, if Cyprus is spoken of, it gives us all the chills; it's good, but it's good, but it's a Fafu Denktas, a Necmettin Erbakan, which means a Bulent Ecevit. I'll leave that to your discretion. I want you to know that we discharged the mayor of Menemen before we arrested him. The mayor of Yalova filed a criminal complaint against the person who committed this irregularity, In the İB, they laid off the following, correct: They had to remove and evacuate employees and vehicles that had been assigned to the heads of the AK PARTI district and borough, and they did so correctly.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0258par0542	Mr. Altay, complete, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0256par0543	I will occupy the bench like Mehmet Mush.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0258par0544	No, but no one's yelling at you this time, you're talking.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0256par0545	Dear friends, your expert abuse of the Greek press, the story of the ship, shows that you have learned and become a professional. Mr. President, we regret that for six hours, for five hours, no official from Turkey can call that ship. (CHP) You couldn't say why, I'll tell you that, because Mr. Erdogan decided everything. The Foreign Minister has no authority over this, the other ministers have no authority. Such a disgrace occurred because Erdogan could not be answered without being asked. And on the day of the helicopter landing on that ship, I said, "Ha Izmir Konak Square, a military helicopter of a foreign state has landed on that ship or has landed on it; it is the same injustice, Turkey must do it."
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0259par0547	If you talk like that, tomorrow you'll be on Greek television...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0256par0548	Let go, let go!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0260par0549	Mr. Özkan... Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0256par0550	You're not just gonna sit there... In France, you didn't even respond to Macron's abuse of the Supreme Prophet and the President of Turkey, none of you, none of you did.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0260par0552	Mr. Altay, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0256par0553	Now, about Demirtaş...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0261par0554	It's occupying the podium.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0260par0555	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0256par0557	We, the Republican People's Party, have never had relations with the PKK. Here, we said that the HDP shouldn't be held in prison because there is no sanctioned sentence against Demirtaş, and we will continue to say so. But we didn't do this either: we sent a messenger to Abdullah Ocalan to win an election, and we took his brother out of him, and we took him back to the HDP voters, and we said, "Why don't you listen to him?" If a party is wanted in connection with the PKK, I think the AK PARTY will first be looked at, I think it will be looked at.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0260par0558	Mr. Altay, please...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0256par0560	Mr. President, let me finish with this: there's a Constitutional story...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0260par0562	Guys, we're giving you two minutes on the stand without picking on you, and we're not giving you an extension.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0256par0563	Mr. President, I'll tell you this...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0260par0564	I gave him a minute, I gave him a minute.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0256par0566	Now, sir, HDP, Üİ PARTI, CHP has been sitting on the Constitutional study. I've been Deputy Group President of this party for seven years, seven years, and I don't know about this kind of work. [[From the AK PARTY rows, the voice of....... the voice of.....]] Boo you! [[From the AK PARTY, the voices of Abraham Kaboğlu...]] Wait, wait, I'll show you, look, I'll show you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0262par0571	Guys...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0263par0572	The pirate is presenting.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0256par0573	The 26th Term Parliament, CHP, AK PARTI, HDP, MHP, Constitutional Compromise Commission was made; it was open, secret. During the 24th term, a Commission was established again, and it worked for a long time. Mr. President, you're on board. Of the AK PARTI, Ahmet Cemalaya, Mustafa Shentop, Mehmet Ali Şahin; Süheyl Batum, Reza Turmen, Attila Kart; Tunca Toskaya, Oktay Özturk, Faruk Bal; then BDP from the Peace and Democracy Party - now HDP-Ayla Akat, Altan Tan, Süryya Leader. This study lasted two or three years. Now, you've got it right, a constitution, the Constitution... There's no such thing, there's no study here, the 26th term, the 24th term.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0264par0577	Mr. Altay, please, Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0256par0578	President, my last sentence -- but I have a lot to say, sir, what you said: we can't learn from those who call the Turkish Armed Forces, our army, the love of the army, democracy at the point of support for the army, we won't learn from them. I say then: "Mr. Ocalan is paying the price for his head. There is no lesson for us to take." We can't learn military love from them!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0265par0580	Don't twist it, don't twist it!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0256par0581	Nor shall we go to the door of Russia, which is a factor in the deaths of 36 of our soldiers, and learn from those who wait by the gate of Putin. When you put a sack on the head of 11 soldiers, give them a note. When you say "Music," you can't have the love of the army. There's no military love to learn from those who conspired with the terrorist organization and conspired with the Turkish Armed Forces. From the kidnappers of Solomon's Shah Turbage, there is no nationality and locality that we will learn, and there is no love of the army that we will receive from those who were attacked in their headquarters when we were Chief of Staff, with a belt at their throats, and then with the Minister of National Defence. (CHP rows) I'd like to go out and solve the problem of AK PARTY here in my budget. My budget is to solve the problem of the unemployed waiter, the cook, the busboy. I've got farmers in my budget, workers, job seekers. There's a student in my budget.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0266par0582	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0267par0583	Mr. President, he's occupying the bench.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0256par0584	You can't, because you've got a five-alar gang in your budget. You've rotted the state, and the bus is dirty.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0266par0586	Mr. Altay, please...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0256par0587	My last word, Mr. President. THE EC PARTY proposed after 2008, mutated, and after 2008 you made the state a party state; it wasn't enough, you made the state a family state; now it's not enough, you've made the state a mutual state; it's enough for you. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0268par0591	You've invaded the podium, invasion!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0269par0592	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0270par0593	Mr. Dervisoglu, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0269par0596	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly, sir. And I'm going to ask for a little leniency when I'm explaining my thoughts, because it's been piling up a lot. I'd like to discuss my position without further delay, without causing an invasion, if possible.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0271par0599	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0269par0600	Now, we've prepared the budget as a good party, so our speakers have examined the budget. We would hope and wish that our reviews of the budget would be made by the EC PARTY spokesman, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0272par0601	Don't you want him to answer the charges?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0269par0602	We don't have any accusations, so if you're looking for accusations, how did you raise the Osmangazi Bridge, which was made for $1 billion, $400 million, to $13 billion, 900 million, so that you had the people's rights and the law looted, we asked, and we didn't get the answer to that question. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We said that this budget has no vision, that this budget has no goals, and that we didn't get an answer. Mr. Mush -- my dear colleague -- you sold 20 deputies to the Republican People's Party as soon as you came to the stand.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0273par0606	I said it's a rental. I didn't say you sold it.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0269par0607	Yes, you were translating 40 films, and the Republican People's Party gave a history of democracy to prevent the PARTI from running, and the GOOD PARTY prevented you from ruling on your own by participating in the election. We certainly know that it bothers you so much. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] You've brought up the issue of constitutional debates. It's also public debate. As a matter of fact, we were investigating who had the dirty hand behind it, and you exposed yourself. I regret it! [[A round of applause from the good parties]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Excuse me, sir. İbrahim Kaboğlu, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroğlu, Mr. Coral Akşener, 2 Co-Chairs of HDP (HDP), Çek Karamolaoğlu, have stated that a joint constitutional study has not been carried out. Besides, there's no need for that kind of work. This was prepared to be used in the 2nd round of the presidential election. There is a claim. There is a 15-day period between the 1st round of the presidency and the 2nd round of the presidency. So what you're saying is that the script doesn't really fit, and the spear doesn't fit. Mr. President, there's a matter of Secretary Leader. I don't intend to accuse anyone, I don't intend to legalize anyone, and I stay far from slander. Mr. Sırrıyya Önder, as if we sat down with HDP before the local elections, made some agreements -- the People's Party of the Republic did, or rather -- in secret agreements, made some statements to make those deals public.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0274par0616	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0269par0617	Ask not that of us, but of Mr. Leader of Sırrıyya. It was you who sent him to the Imran, and your authority made him read the message of Abdullah Ocalan. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Now, I'm always trying to keep you from scratching these wounds so we don't embarrass you. And with the responsibility of the chair I'm sitting in, I'm trying to take care of the language I'm using to the maximum. I'm asking you for the same sensitivity in this regard. I won't take any more time, I'll most likely do the closing of the budget, representing my party, and I'll answer the statements of Mr. Salvation. I thank you very much for your leniency, and I salute the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0275par0623	Thank you. Dear Oluç...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0276par0626	Thank you, Mr. President. The speech of Mr. Mush was not unexpected, but he gave the same speech in the budget last year.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0277par0628	I didn't speak last year.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0276par0629	That's pretty much the same answer I gave at the time, so I'd like to say a few words. Since you don't have anything to say about the budget, you have nothing to say about the budget, as you've started budget preparations with another Treasury and Finance Minister and continued with another Treasury and Finance Minister. What are you doing? You wrap it around old stories. Number one: There is no final court order against Demirtaş, and it is a lie to claim it, ask your lawyers. There is no warrant for a court of law on the subject of Selahattin Demirtaş - I repeat it again. The European Court of Human Rights has ruled that four evacuations have been issued, that none of them have been implemented, and that they have been staged and re-arrested.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0278par0633	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0276par0634	Denizhattin Demirtaş is the hero of the Kurdish people, Turkey is the hero of democratic forces and is the hero of democracy. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Know that as well. He's your political hostage, the person you're afraid of, that's it. Two: now, sir, why are we talking about the same thing over and over again? We didn't do anything secret, we did an election strategy in the open local elections. At that time, as Deputy Director of the Group, before March 31st, I explained, from where I was sitting, from the stand, this election strategy, I defended it, and I said, "We're going to do it." On the way to June 23rd after March 31st, I said to you, "Hodri square." I said, "There are witnesses here, and you were here." We, a legitimate, democratic party, carried out an election strategy. Not only in Izmir, but in Istanbul, in Antalya, in Marseilles, in Aydın, in Adana, in Mersin, in Yalova, everywhere, we did this election tactic and we did it openly.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0278par0637	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0276par0638	We've explained how we're going to act as a political party, there's nothing hidden. We've talked about it in public, and we've talked about it here. So, you're still so hurt by your loss that you're describing this democratic and legitimate election tactic as a secret. There's no such thing. Third: your story of the mayors who support terrorism; your story of the municipalities who use the city's resources not to the public and the municipality, but elsewhere; or, in fact, lies, literally. There's no such report on the mayor and on the municipality, there's no such report made by the Home Office inspectors, there's no court order issued like this, you're lying and you're going through with it.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0278par0642	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0276par0643	What's wrong with you? Your problem was to get the municipalities you lost in the March 31st elections, the voters' will, the will of the people, the will of the Kurdish people. That's what you did by appointing trustees. He's corrupt, he's corrupt, he's a thief, so you've appointed the trustees you had to relieve to win the people's will. You're a trustee, you're an enemy of democracy, you're an enemy of the will of the people, the will of the chest, the law of the chest. That's what this is about, as a matter of fact. You call us enemies of Turkey. What an enemy of Turkey! Sir, the co-chair was a parallel administration. You know parallel government, you know parallel state structure. You ruled this country for 12 years with that structure, and you led it from disaster to disaster. Our co-chairs, women's co-chairs, are city councilmen who are elected in the first place with the right of their wrists, and there's nothing unofficial.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0278par0646	Mr. Oluç, let's complete.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0276par0647	I'm picking it up, sir. Co-chair is legal, co-chair is political, we're entitled to equal governance, not parallel administration.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0279par0649	It's not legal.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0276par0650	Again, you know parallel structures better than we do. Finally, a sentence, sir: Constitutional debates. In 2011, this parliament had two years of Constitutional debate -- which was attended by the party, which was the leading party of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP). The Justice and Development Party, the National Movement Party, we, the Republican People's Party, were involved in these discussions. It's been noted in 67 articles. If you hadn't knocked over the table, those 67 articles would have come to this Assembly General Assembly. I'll tell you this: Turkey needs a new, democratic, civil, liberal and egalitarian constitution. We're going to have to do this, and when this constitution is being made, there's no power or power for the People's Democratic Party, which represents the will of 20 million people, except for this study. Let me make this clear. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0280par0654	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0281par0655	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0280par0656	Mr. President, I have a brief request for my position.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0282par0657	He'll say the same thing, same thing.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0281par0658	Oh, yeah? So you know what he's going through. Good, very good. So tell me.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0280par0660	Mr. President, thank you. All parties give their opinions to society. No one here is trying to convince anyone of a political party. There are allegations, they've been given answers. What I'm saying here is, of course -- Mr. Altay showed photographs -- is that the Constitution can be made under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and there's nothing there. There's an objection to this being done in secret. That's not what I'm saying.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0283par0663	Don't slander me, you're slandering me.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0280par0664	Look, Mr. Altay, I won't comment. Look, my friends, the President of the Commission is İbrahim Kaboğlu; then export Ibrahim Kaboğlu. Ibrahim Kaboglu, look, I'm saying his statements, there's no comment here, there's no explanation for anyone from our party, the President of this Commission. Look, he says he's already assigned CHP President Ibrahim Bey. I don't want to go into a polemic with anyone here, I'm not trying to accuse anyone. These are Abraham's explanations: (sing) We've been running (sing) (sing)
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0284par0667	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0280par0668	The study of the Constitution, which is essentially free of public knowledge and supervision, has been conducted to include this party -- which means the HDP, which I believe, will be shared with the public in the coming weeks. It's important in this regard. Therefore, it was essential that the HDP would have it. Mr. President, again, I'm saying that the PARTI can go and sit with HDP and make a constitution in public. We have no objection to that, he can do it. Our objection here is to do it in secret. Look, we've had all the parties in the House together, it's true...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0285par0670	You're gonna push two parties at us.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0280par0671	We sat down, apparently there were substances. And then we said, "Let's pass these obvious items, and there are some who don't, but it's always been clear." Something else is said: the process of solutions.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0286par0672	Is this what you call democratic Turkey, my friend?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0280par0673	Dear friends, listen up.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0287par0674	Hey, listen!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0280par0675	It's all in front of the public, in front of the cameras, nothing hidden from society. So whatever text you're going to present here, bring in the joint text you've prepared, and we'll discuss it in Parliament.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0288par0677	Here, let's finish this, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0280par0678	We have no objection to that. Our objection is that this is confidential and that the explanations of Ibrahim Kaboğlu... I will not have another discussion with anyone here. And I'm sorry to have to say this, but if you can't decide.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0289par0680	Yeah, yeah, so do we.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0280par0681	What law are you talking about? He talks about whatever he wants, we talk about whatever you want, sorry, we talk about whatever we want.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0289par0682	Speak.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0290par0683	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0289par0684	For the record, for the record...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0290par0685	Let it pass.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0291par0686	You built secret city hospitals from society, we pay for them.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0290par0687	If you'll allow me to speak to your group president.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0292par0688	You're right, Mr. President, you're absolutely right.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0290par0689	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0292par0691	Does he mean Mehmet Mus?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0293par0692	Make it clear.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0292par0693	The Constitution is spoken everywhere. The issue of this bet is a discussion of a Constitutional (Secretary) of an invitation by a foundation to various people. I'm sorry, but it's political stupidity to imagine expanding this and opening a breach in the National Alliance.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0293par0695	I don't quite understand.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0292par0696	Because of this, Mr. Mush, there is no chance, no opportunity, and no way to open a breach in the National Alliance. Don't bother with it, there's no bread here, but I want to say again, let's end this discussion like this, 2010, minimum wage is 518 lira, presidential spending is 108 million, reasonable. The minimum wage is 2019, $2,300, the expenditures of the presidency, which is 3 billion, 919 million.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0293par0697	There's the Prime Minister's office.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0292par0698	So I'm gonna come over here Mehmet Mush, and you answer me this, you're an economist.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0293par0699	Okay, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0292par0700	The 2010-2019 presidential budget has increased 36 times, minimum wage has increased four times. Is that a response from God? Come on, get out there and pay for this.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0294par0702	On people's backs.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0293par0703	Mr. President, I'm closing in one sentence.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0292par0704	Give me your answer. You don't have to do the last speech.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0295par0705	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0293par0707	Mr. President, I won't extend it, our Vice President will answer anyway. Look, since the system's been changed, the presidency and the prime minister's units have been merged, the two budgets have been combined.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0296par0709	Do the math, do the math again.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0293par0710	Many of the departments in the prime minister's office are in the presidency. Now, therefore, the centre of the administration is the presidency, and according to it, new units have been committed.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0296par0711	Yeah, 4 billion, 4 billion...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0293par0712	Dear friends, it's like comparing apples and pears while you're doing the math.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0296par0713	Brother, there are no ministries here, it's just the palace's budget.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0293par0714	For the love of God, I'm an economist, and I'm telling this to society, the two of them combined.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0296par0715	Only 36 times the budget of the palace, and the minimum wage has increased fourfold, so fear God.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0293par0716	The two are united; that's why it's going up, that's why it's going up, nothing more. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0296par0718	Yeah, yeah, the will was in the nation.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0293par0719	People understand us, people understand us.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0297par0720	Thank you. Dear friends, the talks on behalf of the group are complete. Now, in turn, it belongs to the leader of the Grand Union Party and to Ankara MP Mustafa Destici. Mr. Destici, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0298par0730	Mr. President, my esteemed deputies and fellow citizens, first of all, I salute you with respect and conversation. First of all, there was an appeal in the opening section about my right of speech. First of all, I would like to say that when the time and place of every political party represented in parliament comes, I would like to express my desire, especially for them to speak in important talks, such as the budget. But it's a matter of the Civil Code. I propose from here, and I have offered from this stand before; come, let us change the Civil Law. Look, we've been listening to the Deputy Directors of the Group make each other look good for an hour. I think if we gave that time to other parties represented in Congress, we'd probably have a more important contribution to democracy. But I also want to remind you that just as the political parties in the group seem different, there are the parties that qualify for the election and only the parties that have been founded. Turkey currently has 102 parties, but only 15 political parties have won the election. I'd like to see political parties in parliament evaluated in that sense as well. But as it is not enough that the HDP (HDP) who persists in the political extension of the terrorist organization is the spokesman of its terrorist organization, I consider it to be to move the spokesman of other terrorist organisations to parliament, to create shell parties, to make them look like normal political parties, to try and make them equal with us, and to make their claim to say a word to us. And that's what I'm being honest with you about. We've just heard two confessions from HDP Deputy Leader, two statements. One: Seoultin Demirtaş has not yet received punishment. These point to two things, one: Turkey, despite what they claim, shows that there is a completely democratic free environment because what did this person say at the East White Sea rally? There will be Kurdistan and you will see it. If someone were to go and say in Germany, in America, what will another state be built here? What will they do with it? Two: By revealing his cooperation in the local elections, the CHP then nullified the words of the speakers of the CHP, the GOOD PARTY and the Party of Saadet. My expectation is that they're going to reveal the secret Constitutional talks soon, and I'd like to say that we're expecting it from here.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0299par0733	How does he expose something that doesn't exist?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0298par0734	The local elections were also said to be uncooperative. I'm telling them that the state of the Republic of Turkey, our Ministry of Internal Affairs, our heroic army, our security forces will save you as well as our terrors, because you are not free, your consciences are handcuffed. Hopefully, when the terror is over in Turkey, you will be free, and you will be Turkey's party, and you will have the values of the nation, and we expect that. We don't have a personal problem with any of you, our problem is in the name of the state, the people, the martyrs. Give up your stubbornness, your wrong, your terror, your curse on the PKK, your contribution to Turkey's unity, unity, brotherhood. Another issue: Turkey has no Kurdish problem, Turkey has a terrorist problem, there is a terrorist problem. The Kurds are our brothers. Kurd, Türkmen, Çerkek, Bosniak, Laz, Alevi, Sunni; we are all a great nation, children of the Turkish nation. So what we need to do here is to say that we have never rejected the separatist phrases, such as the Kurdish issue, or the Kurdish vote. Our Kurdish brothers are no problem to us, on the contrary, a gain for us and a sign of our thousand-year brotherhood. That is for everyone who believes and loves his state and his people. My dear lawmakers, my dear citizens, like every budget, this budget is a projection, and we'll see if the budget holds at the end of 2021. The main function of the budget is to spend resources on country development. The important thing is that revenues are spent on national revenue-enhancing investments and returns to places that are worth adding. If this is not treated with precision, budgets will be of no use except to waste unnecessary resources and to increase interest costs. In the expense of people's money, we have to act by showing the sensitivity of our own business, the expense of our own home, and I want to express that we're looking forward to that sensitivity. We see that taxes are the most important source of income in the budget. There's one, indirect taxes, and then there's direct taxes. Unfortunately, it's a permanent problem over the years, and we have indirect taxes, which are categorically more than direct taxes. Direct taxes hurt, citizens know, feel, and indirect taxes, our citizens don't understand that they pay taxes. I say that we care that the taxation in the budget should be transferred directly from indirect taxes to taxation and that balance should be maintained, and that we would like to have the work done urgently. After reviewing the programme structure in the budget, we see a total of $211.4 billion from the Ministry of National Education to other institutions and institutions providing educational services, an investment of $19.1 billion in 2021. So in the 2021 budget, the lion's share of training. As an educator, as a teacher, I would like to express my great satisfaction. Because education is the beginning of everything, and if a reform is to be done, then education must be started. And I hope to tell you that we expect our paid teachers and PICTES teachers to get their share of the budget, as well. Another important share in the budget is a share for the Ministry of Health. That's also true because the world is struggling with pandemics. Our country also has a successful process in fighting pandemics. Unfortunately, it is not understood that some friends would ignore such success at the pandemic point and present it as a picture of failure. You have to call right and wrong wrong. Look, 285,000 people have died in the United States, 43,000 people have died in Russia, 55,000 people have died in France -- we can count it -- so the deaths in all European countries and in the United States are on top of Turkey. In Turkey, we wish that no citizen would die, but if these superpowers are hundreds of thousands lower than those we call superpowers, these deaths, the number of cases, then we should thank those who are serving here again, especially our health workers. I give thanks to our Minister of Health and to our Ministry officials, of course, to our health workers, and to our law enforcement officers, and to our public officials, who have worked in the process to implement the measures. My dear citizens, valued lawmakers, the most important thing the pandemic process has taught us is that agriculture and animalism are the most strategic sector for a country and nation to sustain life. There's no harm in oil poured on the floor. They say it's in Anatolia. This proverb is meant for agriculture and livestock. In some places, the damage is written in the profits. For him, the support given to agriculture, to farmers, to animal workers should never be seen as harm.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0300par0742	Do you have backup?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0298par0743	I do.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0300par0744	Where?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0298par0745	Now, look, let's talk straight. Was there any support 40 years ago? I'm a farmer. I have a tractor, I farm on a tractor, grow wheat, grow barley, grow grapes, grow walnuts. Brother, now look, what has to be done?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0300par0746	That's why the farmers' tractors are impounded.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0301par0747	Dear Yım, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0298par0748	What's to be done? What needs to be done is to remove the WTV on the diesel -- and I'm telling you, there are flaws, there are flaws -- the tax on the fertilizer must be removed.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0300par0749	Was there no motion?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0298par0750	The irrigation must be powered.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0302par0752	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0303par0753	There was the Meat Fish Foundation, there was the Milk Industries Foundation, there was the Agricultural Manufacturing Agency...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0298par0754	Now, I know these things, we say them all the time, and we'll keep saying them, but let's appreciate what's done, and let's say what's done. That's what I say as a farmer. Again, in this budget, I would like to express that we have found that we have found the support for OSBs, small industrial sites, TÜBITAK, RDIK, and CSUDES projects, SDUPAP projects, local governments, local governments and local governments, and that we are on their side. But are these enough? It's not enough. The important thing is structural reforms, Turkey is preparing for the future. So, investments in the defense industry are paying off today. Investments in the mining sector, the purchase of drilling ships today results, and where does Turkey's largest foreign trade deficit come from? Energy. Hopefully, when we reach power with the work of our drilling ships -- and these are the happy news -- tomorrow we won't have a problem with what's going on. What we need to do is strengthen the inner front, keep our unity together, dear friends. We won't be looking out for help.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0304par0757	Let's finish, please, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0298par0758	In the final sentence, Precious President, as the Great Unity Party, we have licensed and qualified staffs that will reassure the people of our country's futures, ensure the Turkish nation's trust, and guide economic approaches. We will continue today and tomorrow, as we did yesterday, to support the concrete approaches that we have here, just as we did yesterday, as we do today and tomorrow, as long as it's not forgotten that we have an questionable, inadvertent, self-criticizing perspective. With these thoughts and feelings, I thank all those who have worked on the preparation and presentation of the 2021 budget, and salute our patriotic and national lawmakers and our citizens who are worthy of the best of everything, with respect and respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0305par0761	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0306par0762	Mr. Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0305par0765	Thank you, Mr. President. We've heard the speaker, his speech is of no value to us, so we won't answer. I think that's enough.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0307par0767	I've never been able to deal with you, with the terrorists' words.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0305par0768	You're the terrorists!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0307par0769	I didn't attend meetings led by your Vice President, I won't. Either you curse terror or...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0308par0770	We're gonna ask you what we're gonna do?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0307par0771	You ask the government, you ask people!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0309par0776	Dear friends, for the sake of the executive, Mr. Fuat Oktay will now speak for the Vice President. Friends, I promised Mr. Oktay. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 60 minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0781	Mr. President, I salute you all once again, highly valued lawmakers. We have discussed the basic mission of the 2021 budget, its basis and its goals, in my own personal talks from the beginning of the budget talks, in detail and comprehensively in the presentations of our ministers. I'll try to answer the questions, criticism and assessments that have been raised during today's talks at the General Assembly of our Veteran Assembly. Mr. President, we've spent a year in full service to our nation, to our state, in the conditions of the epidemic, as it has been, under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. In fact, even under normal circumstances, we have heard something beautiful in Mr. Kilicdaroglu's own direct statement today, and things may be different, but at least from Mr. Kilicdaroglu's mouth -- I say so again -- even if it's from our health institutions and employees, I mean, even if it's indirect, at least we've seen that he's confirmed our struggle with Covid-19.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0311par0786	Don't take it personally, don't take it personally!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0312par0787	That's your interpretation, that's your interpretation. No, no appreciation for you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0788	For once, we think it's an important development, it's an important development. No, it's not a bad thing, I mean it as a good thing. I mean, sometimes it's important to hand it over.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0311par0789	We've paid off the paramedics.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0790	With the support of our nation and of our Parliament, we have come to this day, one by one, overcoming all obstacles. Over the course of this year, we've opened many new, giant works from hydropower plants to city hospitals, from major highway projects to technology centers. We've also expressed some of these in the Plan and Budget Commission talks, some in our opening speech. We've all lived together as 83 million years of happiness in the discovery of 405 billion cubic metres of natural gas from our conquering drilling ship. Even during the outbreak, we were proud of the fact that we were the world's second largest in industrial production as our exports reached the highest in our republic's history. On the one hand, while fighting the epidemic, we were brought up as Turkey to help 156 different countries and 11 international organisations. (AK PARTY) We brought over 100,000 citizens from 141 different countries of the world to our country as quickly as possible. What this meant was that I can't get enough service in the country where I am. I want to come to my country, whether it's called the United States or England, whether it's in Italy or Spain, even if it's in Russia, even if it's in Russia, I want to come to my country to get enough service. Let's all be proud of this.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0313par0795	England is inoculating tomorrow!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0796	Besides, again, we've allowed 5,500 people from 67 different countries to return to their country. During this time, Mr. President himself reflected the firm stance of Turkey (Turkish) on issues in our region and on global levels, in an environment where everything is closed with world leaders -- including this one, and even the busiest period -- and, again, at every opportunity, we, especially our respective institutions, have reflected it in our primary hands. It's about things that we sometimes stand on in very different places, sometimes about things we agree on, but it's about all the issues between the two of them. In particular, our country has spoken on issues related to Syria, the Eastern Mediterranean, Libya, and Azerbaijan, and diplomatic channels have been effectively used. So we've reflected a strong Turkey in the field and at the table, and let's all be proud of it. We have made it clear on every platform that we will do everything we can to ensure that new conflicts and human tragedies don't happen in our region, and that we will never, ever step back on the safety of our borders. In matters related to the Eastern Mediterranean and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, we have declared to the world that there is no possibility of a scenario that is excluded from Turkey and does not care for the rights and interests of the Turkish Cypriots, and let us be proud of that. Behind our achievements is our nation's strong unity and unity, and our government's best functioning with the presidential government system, working in harmony with all the institutions of our state. We are aware of the historical responsibility we have taken during this critical period of time, and we are aware of the steps that must be taken. We will continue to work in harmony, without hesitation, for a more prosperous Turkey, where we will look more securely at our future. Mr. President, even during a global epidemic such as Covid-19, our economic growth, which we've always strived to bring to the highest level of importance, hasn't gone negative; it hasn't even slowed down. In the third quarter of the year, the economic activity could also increase the growth rate of 0.3 per cent, which is also the YEP target. Increases in industrial production have been recorded since June, when measures for the Covid-19 outbreak have been eased. The total industrial production index increased by 8.4 per cent in the third quarter compared to the same quarter of the previous year. Despite the outbreak, exports, which were $8 billion 971 million in April, have increased almost every month, and in October, this rise has reached the level of 17 billion 329 million dollars. So our exports also exceeded pre-infected levels, reaching the highest export value in 2020. In addition, the day-to-day assessments said that Turkey has again performed a similar growth performance in developing countries from the past to today. Yes, as noted, Turkey also performed a growth performance in harmony with developing countries from 1986-2002 to 2002-19, but there is a difference: the growth average between 1986-2002 was 66.6 per cent inflation, while similar performance during the EC PARTI period was implemented with an inflation of around 10 per cent; the AK PARTI difference is here. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, from the moment we came to power, we have managed to leave behind major challenges while taking considerable distances from one side to strengthen our economy. After the announcement of their 2023 targets, our country has faced many internal and external developments, including travel events, the Syrian issue, the December 17th-25th coup attempt, various terrorist attacks, the July 15th coup attempt, foreign policy tensions aimed at preventing the rise of our country, and we have repeatedly stressed that. Thus, long-term goals must be revised at certain rates in the 11th Development Plan. At the beginning of the most specific outbreak of the global shocks, Covid-19, we again quickly took measures to ensure that our citizens were affected by the epidemic in the least economic and social sense, and we expressed the details in very different environments and here in the Plan and Budget Commission. Such shocks may seem to be a barrier to reaching their 2023 goals, but the long-term perspective of our economy for achieving its plans is clear in all upper policy documents, including the 1 1st Development Plan, medium-term programmes and annual programmes. And we're not just day-to-day with our schedules and budgets that we've prepared in this framework, but we're also in a conscious, predictive, and decisive way directing our economic policies. In 2002, in terms of the buying power parity, 38.2 per cent per person compared to the EU average, and 61.2% in 2019, respectively. These rates are expected to rise to 65.2 per cent in 2020, the acceleration of the convergence process during the YEP period, and our national income in terms of purchasing power parity and the rate of our national income per capita to the EU average at the end of the period is 67.7 per cent. The same convergence indicator is estimated to rise from 43.9 per cent in 2019 to 47.1 per cent at the end of the term, respectively, according to the United States. Similarly, the day-to-day evaluations have criticised our country for its poorness since the 2010 referendum. The Gini coefficient, measuring the injustice of income distribution, was reduced from 0.402 in 2010 to 0.395 in 2019. The relative poverty, calculated by TÜİK on the basis of 60 per cent of the available income, was 23.8 per cent in 2010, while the proportion was 21.3 per cent in 2019. The income of the 20 per cent population, with the lowest income of 20 per cent, was 8 per cent in 2010, while that coefficient was reduced to 7.4 per cent in 2019. These indicators also say that the distribution of income does not actually go backwards the way it is said to. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we are strengthening the co-ordination between money and finance policies to increase confidence and creditability in economic policies, strengthening the infrastructure needed to increase institutional capacity and effectively operate the rules under economic management. In addition, we create economic policies with a more involved understanding based on consultation, with the contribution of all concerned parties. As a matter of fact, our ministers have held consultations with NGOs over the past few weeks, and in the coming days, we will continue to hold similar meetings with other NGOs representing various parts of society. By prioritizing the fight against inflation, we have expressed our determination to reduce inflation to low, single-digit levels, with our policies to strengthen macroeconomic stability, and once again, I want to express it. Our Central Bank has shown its firm stance by taking the necessary steps in this direction. In the coming period, the Central Bank will continue to use all necessary tools for price stability independently. In support of the price stability, we will strengthen fiscal discipline, improve the quality of public financing, and be as cautious as possible at public-ordered prices. We will support these steps with structural reforms, and we will be able to achieve more effective results by focusing on structural problems with a holistic approach. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we have also signed major reforms in areas such as infrastructure, judicial independence and neutrality in justice services, digitalisation in the judiciary and dynamic legislation changes. In the past period, changes, especially the Constitution and its fundamental laws, have brought a lot of innovation into our system. Innovations on social and democratic rights, such as protection of personal data, constitutional protection of child rights, developing union freedoms, giving public officials the right to a collective contract, gaining information and individual application rights, have been implemented on a constitutional basis. With new legislation studies, infrastructure investments, the structural and technological transformation of our institutions, the growing number of judicial members and staff, we're doing a huge transformation with a continuous education perspective and a stronger court organization. Again, we're still going through this development process. By increasing the number of judges, prosecutors and staff by 177%, we have strengthened the capacity of human resources in the judiciary. By increasing the number of courts by 83 per cent in the judiciary, by 38 per cent in the administrative judiciary, we've expanded our court-related organization. I'd like to stress here that the use of judicial authority belongs only to the judiciary. Judgement does not take orders, instructions, advice, or advice from any person, institution or authority, and such a thing is never, ever, ever. The institutional presence of the judiciary, the rule of law and the rule of law, is also a guarantee of protection, and it will continue to be that way. We're also the ones who made it possible for the incompatibility to be resolved in a shorter way, with less expense and a friendly way ahead of the trial process. On January 1, 2019, we again made it a condition of the case that the Turkish Trade Law was applied to the mediator before some trade disputes were filed. In this context, 54 percent of the files that went to the mediator were quickly resolved. The extradition or acceptance of the indictment, the postponement of the civil suit, the dismissal of the verdict, and reconciliation, have brought new legal establishments to reduce the workload and strengthen the legal security of our citizens. Over the course of this year, we've restructured the Office of Victim Rights as a separate unit to develop victim-oriented practices in the judiciary. In the judicial process, we've set up private judicial chambers to ensure that statements and statements of women and children can be received without analyzing. We've also facilitated the notary process so far, with traditional and important practices for the legal safety of our citizens. Mr. President, our vision in the Judicial Reform Strategy was determined as a reliable and accessible justice system. In this direction, we continue to implement the necessary reforms based on needs. The first reform package adopted in our Supreme Assembly and many arrangements for the preservation and development of rights and freedoms took place on October 24, 2019. On April 15, 2020, the second arrangement was adopted, thirdly on July 28, 2020, which strengthened access to justice in judicial trials. With all these changes, our goal is one by one to implement goals in the Judicial Reform Strategy Document, which is our road map for justice reform. In this context, we've established the Judiciary Reform Strategy Watch and Evaluation Board, and we're going to follow the implementation of this board and re-resolve the setbacks. The facility and preservation of a system based on human rights and the rule of law has always been our primary goal. Our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the basic motivation of our governments' reform line is the understanding of the rule of law. Our Ministry of Justice is currently working on the Human Rights Action Plan. After a large consultation, a draft of the action plan to be our road map for human rights. In addition, the Treasury and Finance Ministry and the Central Bank meet with all its shareholders in economic life, and the draft of human rights action plan and legislation are being reviewed. In this framework, new policies will be set on the justice system in matters such as the investment environment, property rights, freedom of contract. We have launched a new reform process, with the approaches of all parts of society taken into consideration. In the coming months, we will take new steps towards strengthening the rule of law, the predictable, easily accessible, fast and efficient judicial system. We are also determined to bring our nation to life one by one after a thorough study of arrangements to respond to its expectations and needs. Mr. President, you've left valuable lawmakers out, women's killers, women's and children's offenders. That's your judicial reform. It's called assimilation, anti-Kurdish politics, humanitarian security. We have reached the days when Kurdish was taught in schools, when Kurdistan Departments were opened. All broadcast organs operating in Turkey have the right to broadcast in Kurdish today. Public television is one of the media organs that broadcasts in Kurdish on TRT. It is a fact that important steps have been taken for our citizens of Kurdish origin in terms of basic rights and freedoms. In the courts, the scope of the right to defend in another language has been expanded, and the elections have been lifted, and we have lifted, and let us all be proud of it. Today, 83 million of our citizens are able to live, without being discriminated against by language, religion, or ethnicity in every aspect of life. As for those who commit crimes against women and women and children, and those who abuse them, you know them well. You know those who want to meet their kidnapped child in the mountains who want to burn the mother alive in her home. We will not sacrifice our victims, our children, to you or to anyone. Did you say human security? We will protect the safety and rights of our people to the end, no matter what ethnicity, no matter where it comes from, no matter what faith it comes from. Turkey has done this throughout history, and that's what suits it, and that's what it's doing today, and that's what it's going to do in the future. The greatest enemy of democracy and humanity is terror. Our fight against terror, murderers. Representing it as a fight against Kurds is simply ulterior motive, injustice. (EA/DG) Your speech, like the representative of all Kurdish citizens, is distorting the truth, and it is never true. Those who claim that Kurdish citizens speak on behalf of Kurdish brothers, Kurdish brothers, and Kurdish brothers, together we are representatives of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the Republic of Turkey, the Republic of Turkey, the government of Turkey. (AK PARTY) We are the ones who are fighting terrorism side by side in Syria and Iraq.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0314par0823	You're the one who closed the doors in the referendum in northern Iraq.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0824	We are the only countries fighting with DEAŞ in the field, the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0314par0825	You are the ones who want to give Kobani to ISIS.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0826	Turk, Kurd, Circik, Laz, we're the ones who embrace everyone as human beings without distinguishing them. (APPLAUSE) I was there where you said, and yesterday and today. I didn't see you there, helping children, women, orphans. I was there, I was there for weeks, I was there for months, I didn't see any of you. We love man because he is a man. There's nothing more beautiful than being at peace with our country, our nation, our geography, our values; let's all have this feeling together. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, with our vision of industrial technology, strong industry, we're speeding up our policies to encourage growth by adding value. In the last quarter of 2022, Turkey's car will be cut off from the mass production band. We said that, and I said that again in our initial conversation. This project is of great importance because it has a much wider perspective than producing a car. Again, we speed up domesticization with the Technology Focused Industrial Movement Program, developing the support mechanism from the end to the end, supporting the production of high-tech products in our country. Again, it's much more than just producing a vehicle that I've just expressed. We've expressed it over and over again, not only in the field of defence industry, but in our other sectors, it's actually a project that is going to be a very serious step forward to the development of high-tech production and high-tech technology, which will now be the engine of the electric and electronic sectors that exist in the automotive industry until now. We'll be out of the defense industry, and not much, actually, three or five years from now, we'll be on our way there with a very strong second foot, which we'll see the effects of. In fact, this project, again, is a project that will create infrastructure in this area that will make Turkey the leading country in the environment where flying vehicles are spoken around the world in the next period. We're building the Regional Development Fund, Technology and Innovation Fund, and funding our country's investments in industry and technology. We support investments that will boost our country's competitiveness by offering 260m-euro resources to the use of projects as part of the Competitive Sectors Programme, which we run with the European Union. In addition, we open this venture capital fund in 2021, when the 80m-euro-budget financing agreement for the Future Fund of Turkey, which aims to provide capital for our entrepreneurs, is published and published in the Official Gazette on June 19, 2020. The budget for organised industrial areas and industrial sites in 2021 will increase by 400 per cent, and the RD budget for TÜBITAK will increase 100 per cent. We will continue to work with all our might to strengthen the power of the industrial sector, which is the driving force of development, and to increase competition. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, with innovative environmental and urbanism policies, we've been filling our cities with urban transformation projects, social housing projects, green eco-friendly corridors, nation gardens. In 2020, we laid the foundation of 115,581 social dwellings, which cost $44 billion. In the last two years, we've gone over 102,500 buildings under construction control. Sadly, this year's natural disasters throughout our country have burned our hearts. We've been near our cities affected by natural disasters, including Izmir, Elazig, Malatya and Giresun, and we've covered our citizens' wounds as quickly as possible. We've provided a total of 165 million liras to affected areas this year. We have completed construction of 3,034 disaster dwellings, while 20,858 homes are under construction. As you know, Izmir was shaken by an earthquake the size of 6.6 in October, and we lost 116 citizens in this earthquake. Again, I wish them all God's mercy, my condolences to their relatives. Immediately after the earthquake, our search and rescue teams, our relevant institutions and volunteer teams, worked day and night with great sacrifice, saving 107 of our citizens from the wreckage and covering the wounds of our citizens affected by the disaster. Once again, to all our citizens who have died in earthquakes, floods, and other natural disasters, I offer God's mercy and my condolences to his relatives. In Izmir, 30 percent of the buildings that had suffered severe earthquake damage or were destroyed are structures that were built between 1990 and 2000, while 70 percent were built before 90. The buildings that were built after 2000 have not been damaged or destroyed. This also shows how accurate the measures we took after the 99 quakes and the structure we applied our inspection studies were actually. After the earthquake, we launched the largest urban transformation campaign in our Ýzmir's history. In this context, we have prepared our project for 5,000 dwellings in the first place, and in addition to providing rent and transport assistance to our citizens, they continue uninterrupted. In 81 counties, the nation's gardens, where we set out with 81 million square metres, continue to connect our cities with green, with nature. In 77 counties, we're bringing to life 272 nation gardens with 50 million square meters in size. So far, in 22 counties, we've opened 35 national gardens the size of 20 million square feet, and we've opened them to the service of our citizens. The 237 national gardens are also under construction, projecting, and groundwork. By 2023, we will have opened our other nation's gardens and offered 81 million square metres of our nation's garden to the use of our nation in 81 counties. Mr. President, we have repeatedly expressed that the model of public-private cooperation is a public financing model preferred by the private sector for its efficient implementation of projects in the short term, reducing investment costs. Our experiences are reflected in each new project, and each project has been transformed into less expensive and more useful for the public, for example, the Eurasia Tunnel. In the morning, I gave an example of Istanbul Airport. In Eurasia Tunnel, the project's investment price was about $1.3 billion, and its construction was completed at the end of 2016, about four years earlier than predicted since the contract came into effect. The project has responded directly to the needs of our citizens and has compensated for most of the time the Istanbulans lost between Asia Minor and Europe. The Eurasian Tunnel Project will receive a share of public, state, with the mechanism to share revenues through the transitions after the number of guarantees have been reached.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0315par0834	The guarantees haven't been reached, but where are the guarantees from? What do you mean, Mr. Oktay?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0835	This share is expected to reach 4.8 billion euros during the contract period. Also, with the amount of guarantees to be paid, nearly $3 billion of net income is expected during the contract period. The project will be transferred to our government at the end of the contract period, and we repeat it every time. In fact, our government will be able to operate if it can bring revenue in the era of the right to operate, or if it is preferred when the contract expires. The Eurasia Tunnel is also calculated by its contribution to the economy at the end of each business year, taking into account the most direct benefit to the bridges. The Eurasian Tunnel also benefits indirectly, both from its own user and from other users using the Conqueror Sultan Mehmet Bridges on July 15th. From its opening to date, 98 million hours have been saved time, 1.3 billion vehicles have been reduced by miles, 60,000 tonnes of emissions have been reduced, and the economic contribution to our country has been $5.23 billion. On the other hand, the Gebze-Orhangazi-Izmir Highway Project... was built again with the KCI model, and the addition of the world's 4th largest suspension bridge, which requires advanced engineering, has shortened the travel period, has increased the comfort of service, and has been presented to the service of our citizens. The project for roads between Istanbul and İzmir has been completed and the distance between İzmir and Istanbul has been reduced to about three and a half hours. Our provinces between İzmir-Bursa-Istanbul benefit and benefit from this service. Our project consists of 382km of highways and bridges and is a total of 426km, along with connective routes. In all, there are four highways and one bridge. The project, which cost about $6.3 billion, was completed within about three years and four months of the signing of the Ottomangazi Bridge. All of them have been in the service for nearly six years and four months. The project will be transferred to the public, the state, in 2036.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0315par0837	How much will it cost, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0838	The Osmangazi Bridge was opened early and presented to the public's service, but it is not true that the public is willing to pay more than $2 billion for opening early, as alleged. The number of daily guarantees for the Osmangazi Bridge is 40,000 vehicles for the double direction. The number of days opening early is 1,354, and even if no vehicles pass by, so even if zero vehicles pass by, that's the only number that can be reached. A payment has been paid much, much lower than $2 billion, which is alleged to have been taken into account by traffic crossings. Therefore, the account is completely wrong.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0316par0839	Can you tell me how much?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0840	The total investment cost of the Istanbul-Izmir Highway Project, including the Osmangazi Bridge, is 10.8 billion dollars, including the cost of production, the cost of publicisation, the cost of financing during the construction period, the cost of maintenance and operating the highway and the Ottomangazi Bridge throughout the entire business period, the cost of heavy maintenance costs and operating period financing costs. So it's not fair to just look at a project this big as a production cost. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] A total of four are already seen as increasing the number of guarantees, even during the outbreak of traffic on the highway. Since there is a share of income between cuts and bridges, more income from the highway is expected to lower the bridge guarantee payments. While the traditional financing of highway projects was completed for about seven to 20 years, a major project such as Gebze-Orhangazi-Izmir Highway was soon completed and brought economic benefits by contributing to our country's competitiveness. With our project saving time and fuel, it is intended to save about 4.2 billion dollars in 2023. A project of this size was not a burden on the state during the short term, working with the private sector. In addition, the project will be handed over to the public and will continue to contribute to the budget, with all care taken after the duration of its operation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, have called our budget for the adoption of our great Parliament the budget for the Haramzads.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0317par0846	That's less than enough.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0847	This budget is the budget of our nation, which we have raised to the highest human development class in the United Nations Human Development Index. This budget is the budget of our people, which we raise to the World Bank upper middle income group. This budget is the budget of our people, who, according to the purchase parity, doubled the income per person of $15,457 in 2009 by $28,424 in 2019. (AK PARTY) This budget, despite all obstacles to Turkey, is a legitimate budget, such as the mother of our nation, which we created with rising taxes from our farmer, our business, our employee, our civil servant, in our economy, which grew by 5.8 per cent during the 2010-2019 period of the global crisis. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] In our beautiful country, called the country of poor people, which was exhausted by crises in 2002, when we take power, interest payments have a 43.2% share in budget spending, while in 2020 the rate is 11.3%. Those who call this budget a budget, the budget of the dispossesseds, who have not struck a nail in this land, have despised the people of this country for years, and therefore have been assigned by this nation to opposition forever, condemned to opposition. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] I listened to you guys, and I listened to you without saying a word.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0318par0852	You couldn't sell them, sell them.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0853	Thus, as in the past 17 years, our nation has given us the authority to make the budget. Turkey has also been said to have worsened in every area in 18 years since 2002 to 2020. Friends, perhaps I used this language there, the language the President General used -- if you'll pay attention -- was heavier.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0319par0855	You can't drive.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0320par0856	You can't talk to the chosen one.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0857	In the first election, you will see how you will be able to drive away. He used his statement.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0321par0858	Friends, please let's keep the peace.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0859	We've seen a lot of running after every election for 18 years. (AK PARTY) But on this occasion, the CHP's presidential candidate has been announced today, and may it be a blessing. (Applause from the EC PARTY) (Applause from 2002 to 2020) has been stated that Turkey has worsened in every area in 18 years. We've already explained in numbers where Turkey has come from in 18 years. But the real witness to our country's development is the practices of life beyond numbers. Now, I'm asking you, friends: is Turkey Turkey, 18 years ago, from the number of schools and teachers to technological infrastructure?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0322par0860	Yeah, a generation was wiped out by that training, a generation was wiped out. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0862	Is Turkey the Turkey of 18 years ago, from the number of hospital and health workers to the coverage of general health insurance and the quality of service? [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Is Turkey the Turkey of 18 years ago, in every area from the highway to the highway to the railroad?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0323par0866	Is the Federal Reserve the same 18 years ago?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0867	Is Turkey, in energy, Turkey, 18 years ago, from hydroelectric to solar power, transmission and distribution lines? [[Noises from CHP rows]] Despite the damage caused by the elements of Turkey and the dissolution of GERPs in justice, is it the 18-year-old Turkey of service quality?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0324par0870	You put him on trial. Didn't you open him up?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0871	In terms of military resources and mobility, is Turkey the 18-year-old Turkey with security and cross-border operations on its borders? [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Is Turkey, 18 years ago, with its system of support, able to reach out to every needy citizen?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0325par0874	You gave me a loan.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0875	Is Turkey the 18-year-old Turkey of 18 years ago in terms of services given to disabled relatives and veterans from disabled to disadvantaged children to elderly people? Put your hand on your conscience.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0326par0876	Yeah, why are you asking us that? Were we in power 18 years ago? Ask the Deputy Prime Minister of power.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0877	In agriculture, Turkey is Turkey 18 years ago, with its wide support range and its constantly modernized machine infrastructure? [[Noises from CHP rows]] We've expressed them in numbers, and you can see them. The star of the world in industry and technology, as one of the rising production centers, is Turkey the country of 18 years ago? The answers are quite clear, actually.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0327par0880	Talk to my number.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0881	Is Diplomatic Turkey the world's most common diplomatic network and Turkey 18 years ago, with its weight in every issue where it is an auction?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0328par0882	Mr. Fuat, ask the power of that period about 18 years ago, don't ask us.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0883	It's possible to extend this list as long as possible, we can extend this list.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0329par0884	Friends, anyone with a private audience should meet outside.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0885	We don't have problems, we don't have problems? Of course I do. But it's one thing to talk about these problems and look for solutions, and it's another to claim that nothing has been done in this country in 18 years. Think of the conditions of the world and our region as we set our goals about 2023 years ago, especially the attacks we've been living without interruption for the past seven years, and the political and economic costs they've caused. When those who wanted to redesign the world and our region came at us with all its powers and resources, when we were attacking us, instead of one step back, we always went further and further. (AK PARTY) Many reasons for changing priorities in this historic struggle process, changing plans for the use of available resources, meeting unpredictable costs, of course, may have left us behind some of our goals, but that doesn't mean we've given up our 2023 goals, never. We are committed to our first day of excitement and determination in 2023 goals. We're going to deliver this export to $500 billion. (AK PARTY) We will move this national income, not 25 grand per person, but beyond that, to 23, and beyond that. We're just acting on changing circumstances and new circumstances caused by the attacks.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0330par0886	You promise, Mr. Vice President?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0887	The construction of the great and powerful Turkey is a national goal above any political account.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0331par0888	He wants 50 more years of jurisdiction.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0889	All political parties, all of our political parties and lawmakers under the roof of the Turkish Grand National Assembly have as much responsibility as we do, and we desire that. I invite you not to smear our 2023 goals, but to pursue them. We must also remember what we did or did not do for Turkey, which is the greatest account we will ever give when we come before our nation.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0332par0891	Mr. President, what do you have for the closed shop? Will you say a word to them? What are you going to give me, shoplifter?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0892	There were some questions, and I'd like to answer them again, if you'll excuse me for the rest of the time. The question is, why was the money of the martyrs and veterans confiscated on July 15th? Friends, have fear of God.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0333par0894	When will you pay?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0895	Our martyrs and veterans are the brothers we cherish.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0334par0896	Where's the money, the money?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0335par0897	Where is it?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0898	The establishment of the Turkish Nearest and Veterans Solidarity Foundation was published in the Official Gazette on July 13, 2019.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0334par0899	Yeah, from 2015 to 2019 to four years...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0900	The trustee delegation appointed by our president was published in the Official Gazette on December 26, 2019, and began its foundation activity. We've already stated that the amount collected will be used through the foundation.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0336par0901	Where's the money?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0902	The amount collected as part of the July 15th Solidarity Campaign following the July 15th coup attempt has been deposited into the bank account of our foundation's use of $338m 933,650.97.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0337par0903	Yeah, people gave it to their martyr relatives, didn't give it to them.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0904	The board is also authorized to decide the use of money for the purposes of our foundation.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0338par0905	There's a number on it, but it's not in reality.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0906	The aid of the July 15th Solidarity Campaign (July 15th) to support our fallen relatives and veterans is being paid a thousand dollars each month and will continue until this is completed.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0339par0907	The money's for the martyrs, give it all away. Why won't you give it to me?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0908	Another question is, the terrorist attack on Beşiktas...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0339par0909	Why won't you give it to me?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0910	Our problem is sustainable support. It's never been our problem to put on a show. We've been with our martyrs, our martyrs, and our veterans, and they know it very, very well. There was another question: In the terrorist attack on Beşiktaş, 40 of our police and 47 of our citizens were killed, where a fundraiser was launched, 52 million lira. Does anyone know how many pounds a month is tied to a man whose child is a martyr?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0340par0912	Yeah...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0913	There's no way that a police officer who was killed in a terrorist act could be tied to his father for $11.96 a month, my friends. I don't know where you get those numbers.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0341par0915	He said so himself, the father of the martyr!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0916	Please take the numbers from the state of the Republic of Turkey, and don't take the numbers elsewhere. Return your direction to the state of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0342par0917	Mr. Vice President, what about the money?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0918	The rights of a public official who was killed as a result of a terrorist act are tied to the rights of a public official, no less than the month of his current counterpart.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0343par0919	How much?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0344par0920	Where's the money you collected for the relatives of the martyrs?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0921	According to this, the minimum monthly amount of fallen police officers can be tied to their rightful owners is 6,150 TL.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0343par0923	Is this for every single one of them?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0924	The amount of salary to connect to parents varys according to the number of rights holders.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0345par0925	Where's the money you collected?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0926	For example, a wife has two children, while a deceased police officer's wife and children receive a total of $6,150 a month, while his parents receive $1,240 a month.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0346par0928	Why did you start the foundation, Mr. Vice President?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0929	Another question was that during the Covid-19 period, health workers who fought the epidemic were not supported.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0347par0930	The shopkeeper is waiting for backup!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0931	Yeah, I'm inviting you here to pay my respects. In the period of the epidemic, additional payments were made to the Health Ministry and university hospitals staff. In this case, $5.1 billion has been paid from the budget.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0348par0933	Who was it made for? The paramedics say they didn't take it, who did you give it to?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0349par0934	Who took it?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0935	We're still working on what we can, what we can, what we can, and what we can do to all our employees within our budget. There was a question within the scope of the public expenditures. Again, the Court's Law was adopted during the EC PARTY period, friends. The Court has been given broad supervision by this law concerning the control that had previously been too inadequate. At this point, 34 general budgetary administrations, 99 (38) private budget administrations and companies, 136 private companies, 9 regulators and auditors, 2 social security institutions, 13 heads of investment monitoring and co-ordination, 25 districts of private administrations, 30 major cities municipalities, 10 major cities municipalities, 20 municipalities, 138 municipalities, 7 districts and companies, 8 other public administrations, a total of 432 public expenditures.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0350par0937	The Entity Fund, the Entity Fund!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0938	As it is known, as a result of a review of public administration's accounts and transactions, a public damage defined in Article 71 of Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 5018 is also subject to the main report on the damage trial, and is subject to the Court of Accounts.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0351par0939	What definition of the Court do you apply?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0940	There was another question: There was no contribution to citizens who had lost income; there was only 8 billion euros in funding from the budget. In fact, I remember giving it to you in the morning, and in the Plan and Budget Commission, very detailed. Maybe we haven't given it yet. Let me repeat it one more time. Like the rest of the world, we continue to stand by our citizens in the fight against the outbreak of Covid-19, which has affected our country. In this scope, the contract is restricted to protect employment, and under the short work grant that we've extended... 21.8 billion liras...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0352par0941	Mr. Vice President, what do you give the employer, the shopkeeper, and what do you give him?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0942	... $5.1 billion has been paid as an unemployment allowance, $4.2 billion, as part of a cash allowance for our employees who have been granted free leave by their employers. We've been given $1.7 billion in premiums for jobs that have been restored to normal working order, overcoming the effects of the epidemic. As part of the social support programme in the period of the epidemic, $6.3 billion per household is supported. I don't want to go any further because I explained. I'd like to use the time for other questions.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0352par0943	We'll pay you a visit to the shop, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0944	Again, in five years, the farmer's planting field has decreased by 15 per cent. There was nothing in the budget. There was a review in the form of a review. In the morning, I explained that again, from 2002 to today, our agriculture industry has shown significant improvements and growth from that day to that day. In 2002, it was 5.1 million hectares -- and I'm talking to the numbers -- in 2019 it was 3.4 million hectares.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0353par0945	You've given all the land to the construction site.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0946	So over the course of time, 1.7 million hectares of nadas have been added to agricultural production. I'd also like to say that we've secured agricultural areas. This includes 315 large agricultural plain sites -- totaled at the end of November -- with a total area of 8,470,000 hectares -- throughout our country so far. Again, the criticism of agriculture continues that agriculture and livestock were finished during your rule. Consider the figures: Our plant production, which was 97 million tonnes in 2002, increased by 18 per cent in 2018 to 115 million tonnes and increased by 8 per cent to 124 million tonnes in 2020.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0354par0948	How much is it? How much does it cost? It's not worth anything.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0355par0949	And the animal manufacturer swears it because the milk he buys doesn't cover the food he eats.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0950	Our certified seed production increased by 145 thousand tons in 2000 to 1 million 143,000 tons in an increase of 8 times today.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0356par0952	Mr. Oktay, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0953	With effective work and support, seed production has increased 6 times in wheat, 40 times in barley, 3 times in corn, 7 times in rice, and 69% in vegetable seed production. In 2002, our $17,000 seed exports increased by 763 percent in 2019 to $149 million -- 72,000 tons. We're exporting seeds to 88 countries today. Again, why is it not given to the farmer what needs to be given under the Law of Agriculture? Is it possible that the farmer will receive $211 billion? Agricultural supports have been reduced to one percent of the illegitimate domestic population. In the form of... In 2002, again, we raised the 1.8 billion support budget to 17.4 billion dollars in 2019 and to $22 billion in 2020, up by 36 per cent. In 2020, we divided 55 per cent of the total budget into agricultural benefits.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0357par0957	What world do you live in?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0358par0958	Mr. Oktay, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0959	We paid $311 billion in real money in November 2003-2020. Human health, nutrition, animal feeding, and the 21 products that are strategically important to our country as part of the watershed-based support model that took place in 2017 were also supported in the basins where they were raised best suited for regional importance. The 2021 budget increased by 27.8 per cent from the previous year to 51.5 billion liras. It's going on, and I'm going to do this because I don't have time, but I'll tell you this: according to the OECD 2019 Report, our country's support rate is not below 1%, it's over 1.3%. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] You asked about the increase in the presidential budget, and if you want to talk about it in detail while the presidential budget is being discussed, because there's no time now, or else I have the answer. And I'll give it back to you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0359par0964	Tell us how much you've raised 22 billion dollars!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0965	Again, Mr. Kilicdaroğlu was accused of corrupt ambassadors.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0360par0968	Mr. Oktay, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0969	The accusation of the ambassadors is very unfortunate. On behalf of our State Department and all our ambassadors, I categorically reject this accusation. I'd like to remind you once again that if you don't go, you've committed a crime. Again, there was a criticism of the membership of the board of directors that the people in the bureaucracy received five salaries, there was a charge. There's no such thing, guys.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0361par0971	What do you mean, no?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0972	That was before us, we stopped it.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0361par0973	You don't believe what you're saying!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0974	No matter how many board members there are, only one of them can get peace, and no one else can get peace. And we're the ones who organized it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our ships in the Mediterranean have been raided, and the EU has made a statement not to search the ship for five hours, but why hasn't the State Department made any noise?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0361par0978	We've already asked you to explain.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0362par0979	Mr. Oktay...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0980	I mean, why is it so appealing to you to honor the statements of the EU, the statements of the United States, the explanations of another? The basic rule of international law is that a country cannot be allowed to board a merchant ship in the open sea without the country's open consent. That's the rule. The International Convention Protocol on Avoiding Illegal Actions Against Sea Safety, where our country is on the side, is clearly mentioned. The four-hour application of this contract applies only to countries who have reported to the International Maritime Organization that it has agreed to this. Turkey has no such declaration. In addition, our country has reported to the EU authorities that we have no objection or consent to this trade ship, Roseline-A. I repeat the statements, the developments, and please follow them from the institutions of the state and government of the Republic of Turkey. (Applause from the EC PARTY) The incident was protested by the EU and related countries in Germany, Italy and Greece, and a letter about the issue was delivered to the United Nations, NATO, NATO, IMO, and the EU.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0362par0982	Mr. Oktay...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0983	I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0362par0984	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0985	Again, I'd also like to say that don't worry, friends, Turkey stands upright in every place, situation and condition. He has carefully protected the interests of the Turkish nation, and he will continue to protect them. And our people know it very clearly, very well. There were questions about the tank pallet, and we're out of time. We've explained it over and over again, and I can explain it again, if you promise, Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0363par0988	We don't want to watch the lying wind anymore.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0310par0989	We've explained it over and over, but I mean, there are ears, so what do we do when we don't hear them? Mr. President, dear lawmakers, with these ideas, I wish that the Central Management Budget of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019 should be better for our country and our nation once again. I want to thank all of our deputies, including the chairman of the Plan and Budget Commission and members, who have contributed to the creation of our budget in 2020, with their opinions and reviews, and to all those who have worked hard to prepare the budget again. Mr. President and all the members of the board, I thank you, once again, from the bottom of my heart, and from the bottom of my heart, my respects.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0364par0994	Thank you. Mr. Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0365par0998	Thank you, Mr. President. I listened to the clerk, Mr. Vice President. To tell you the truth, I've watched it in such a strange way once again, how much truth can be reversed, how twisted it can be. He had a few words: they opened Kurdistan, they represented Kurdish citizens, they were given the right to defend in different languages, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera... the Kurdish representative was AK PARTI, and we don't represent Kurds. I don't know where to hold it. We just discussed whether or not they were written in the transcripts, or if they were written in a non-English language. Then, Mr. Speaker, I thank you, he sent the transcripts. At the end of the report, the non-English language as a footnote will be written here in Kurdish, Kurdish!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0366par1002	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0365par1003	Our language is denied until it is written in Kurdish. Yes, our native language is Kurdish. So we can't print our language in this Parliament, we can't print two sentences in Kurdish. Of course we know the rules, of course we know the Constitution, but we also experience a period when we can't even celebrate Mother tongue Day in our own language. Let me just say a few terrifying things about language: at Istanbul Airport... I'm only telling our people this because I know very well that the ruling party doesn't listen to this and repeats the same memorizations. At 35 different locations at Istanbul Airport, the instant translation service began in 36 languages and 80 dialects. The minimum 25 million Kurds travel on those planes, there's no translation service for them. Now, where should I grab it? (Kürdology says.) I'm watching closely, they even named the University of Kurdistan after the Institute of Living Languages.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0367par1007	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0365par1008	The Living Language Institute... no Kurdish language, no Kurdish. Opened for Kurdish, no Kurdish language. Kurdish dissertation has been banned, dissertation. It's called ▪Kürdology. It's called "TRT Kurdî" (TRT Kurdî) and Kurdish Turkish propaganda is being published in Turkey. Please watch; there are subtitles; you will see that everything is being done to remove identity from language. The trustees -- you know, the trustees from the gas, the people who came in with the extortion -- immediately as soon as they come in, they remove the double-tongued signs. They get up in Kurdish, but they hang them in English, strangely, they hang them in Arabic in Siirt. The English live in Batman, Diyarbakır, but the Kurds don't! It's weird. Now, Mr. President, we can give you hundreds and thousands of examples of this. For one thing, we have repeatedly expressed from this bench that if I do not call Mr. Fuat Oktaya of Turkish origin oratory, please don't let us say that the Kurds are also of Kurdish origin. Why do you call us Kurds?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0368par1014	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0365par1015	Let's agree that we don't call them Turkish people. If he accepts it as Turkish, he is Turkish, he is Arab, he is Kurd. I mean, there's one in the ruling party group here, do they have to glue the root? That's another form of denial. Now, there is another issue: Those who forbid Kurdish now say, "We represent Kurds." We get 6.5 million votes, we don't represent Kurds, but they represent Kurds by hostility against Kurds! Yeah, just yesterday in Afrin -- we have no eyes anywhere; we have no eyes in oil, here and there. They say -- the Minister of Agriculture himself said that 90 thousand tons of olive oil was sold through Turkey, even in the Ministry of Commerce data. Now there's no story left to tell. There really isn't any left. In memorized words, we are not enemies of the Kurds. They say, "We are not enemies of the Kurds."
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0368par1018	Complete, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0365par1019	I'll clean it up. Yes, just a week ago in Hakkari, Özcan Erbaş was killed at the age of 16, Sheralite Dereli; I will name hundreds of names. Ya, the murderer of a single Kurd was not punished for one day, one day he was not punished, and they were all imposed on an excuse. Yes, they say we're fighting the Ishid. The whole world knows that ISIS is not being fought, that ISIS is being spoken for. Bağdadi was killed under our noses by an operation from Turkey, and we did it internationally from Turkey, otherwise it would have been blocked. He said, even Trump said that. I mean, it's not us, it's the world talking. Finally, Mr. President, we know exactly who we're supposed to be. We're spokesman for the millions we've been voted on. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Without any distinction, we see that both the Turk and the Kurdish and the Laz, the Circeşek, the Arab and the Pomak are not all accounted for -- the Georgian and all of them are equal.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0369par1024	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0365par1025	...we see as equal citizens, we believe that no one is superior to anyone, and our spokesmanship, our democratic policy, has destroyed all of our memory in this country. That's why we're constantly being answered in the same language, in the same language. Yeah, we know who's the spokesman for the ruling party, who's robbing the country, who's selling parcels, yeah. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Yes, we're well aware of this spokesmanship, the spokesman for war and destruction. Please don't let them forget for a moment that they're talking to us about a political party and millions of citizens behind it. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0369par1027	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0370par1029	Mr. Vice President, I really think you should fear God for this: One, we put the money of the martyr in your pocket, you drank it. Why don't you pay the rightful owners? You say, we give them a thousand lira allowance a month, we use the rest, interest, repo.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0371par1030	He didn't say that. What makes you say that?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0370par1031	Where's the money? Where's the money, brother? [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] It's not over, sir. You embezzled it personally. He didn't say, Mr. President. Can't you just give the money to the rightful owners? Why don't you give it to them? Whoever helped -- a lot of our friends -- everyone... Get this right to the owners. You must gather him together and transfer him to the Treasury. I do not know about him. If you are afraid of God, if you are ashamed of the people, hand over the money to the righteous, brother, this is what we say. Now fear God, Mr. Vice President. It's a bank statement. The 121 lira 90 cents our president claims on the stand is true. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now there's a 192 lira deposit on this receipt because there's a raise. In the terrorist attack in Beşiktaş, according to our law, the money that was sent to the father of Berkay Akbaş, who, according to our law, was considered a martyr, was not a security guard there, but was killed in the terrorist attack, was made to pay 192 lira 59 cents. It's a shame. It's a shame. This state will be so helpless, and you'll have to be the caretaker here because Turkey has been raised. Three, dear friends, this is the money that goes to all the relatives of the martyrs, if not the security guard, to the martyrs of terror. It started at 121 lira, I'll tell you that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Another shame, another reason for your fear of God: Mr. President, in the fight against Covid, he said that the medics did not see the necessary material moral support from the state. It's not a government that pays $7.40 as an additional performance fee for an ambulance driver, brother. It's not a government that pays $7. (CHP cheers) The state is ours, and we want the government strong; we want his tender arm, his face. A state that pays an emergency doctor $32 for fighting Covid is not a great state, not a great state. These are the numbers you paid. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm just finishing up. The corrupt ambassador... If you hadn't released these four ministers from the ministry and politics after 17-25, if you had stood behind them, they were decent men. If you had said, we might not have been able to pursue those claims today, but you knew that the sheets that were scattered after December 17-25 were true, you hid them a little bit back, you laid them down, you couldn't, and then you put them under shame, like appointing them ambassadors. If they're not corrupt, why did you evacuate? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Finally, if you hadn't sent ambassadors to Pennsylvania after December 17-25, maybe we wouldn't have had the right to tell you this today, but now the accused Mehmet Dharli is inside, his brother Şaban is ambassador. Now, of course, there's a code of character for crimes, but when it comes to business, there is. So, Mr. Vice President, like Mr. Mehmet Mush, today, you have made a desperate budget presentation of the future. You weren't convincing. There are no people, no workers, no jobs, no waiters, no busboys, no dishwashers, no bus drivers, no peasants, no artists, no people. This budget wasn't made for the nation; it was made for Qatar and the Five Gang. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0372par1048	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0373par1050	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Fuat will surely give you the answer to what Mr. Engin is talking about.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0374par1052	Which one?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0373par1053	Of course, your last words always seem to be a certain tirade, Mr. Engin. You know, that was said from the stand.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0374par1054	Which one?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0373par1055	I'll put it in terms of your last words. They're always saying that. You say it out there, they say it out there, they say it out there, they say it out there, it's all right, don't worry.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0375par1056	News A spins the decade, turns it around, gives it away.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0373par1057	Now, these Nazis have a propaganda person, an anthropologist who organizes these things, Goebbels, who goes over and over and over again. He says, "You have to brainwash people."
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0376par1058	There's such a thing as the power of repetition. The power of the repetition is important.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0373par1059	They say: "Why should people believe that the same things should be repeated? Why should they not believe? They haven't believed in credo in 2,000 years? So we're going to make them believe it over and over again. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's a propaganda rule. We see a variety of examples of this. Now, Mr. Danış listed his criticisms of the Kurdish issue as we know it, that we are always familiar with, that we are not strangers, that we are not anonymously repeated, that he said, "Kurdish hostility"; he said certain words; we reject them.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0377par1063	Don't be so afraid to see yourself in the mirror.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0373par1064	These are not true, compatible with the facts of Turkey, which correspond to Turkey's political truth, but if you want to create a political and social perception by repeating it over and over again, you always go through the same process. Here we see other examples. This ISIS matter... that Turkey has described ISIS as a terrorist organization and is fighting against it, and I assure you, in Syrian territory, those who pretend to fight ISIS as a fraud never do it, and you know very well what they do. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But Turkey fought ISIS, but instead of you seeing Turkey's struggle, you're always following the same principle of propaganda. You said that Baghdad was at the tip of your nose, where he was caught. Mr. Danış, whose nose did Bondadi come through? Come on, it was right under our noses, whose nose did it go through? What land did he cross? Who was there? You'll have to tell them. Who brought them? So there wasn't an YPG there? Wasn't there a land that they ruled, where they were effective with armed militants? And weren't there some global forces that the YPG was allying with? So, instead of calling it the tip of his nose, there should be an analysis, an analysis of whose nose it went through. Who's bringing them in? Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0378par1070	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0379par1071	Mr. Tastyoglu...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0378par1073	Mr. President, thank you. I just want to point out that this is what we said about the opening of the Ottomangazi Bridge earlier, not what came out of the government's vault over $2 billion; we didn't say that; what we said was the total price for the early end -- but it came out of the citizen's pocket, but the total price came out of the nation's vault -- we meant this. So, Mr. Vice President, that's basically an explanation, which confirms our information. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0380par1076	Your vice president told me, and then Mr. Ismail.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0381par1077	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0382par1078	Mr. President, I'd like word on Article 60.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0381par1079	I've never given it to him according to 60, but Mr. Master, it's today. There are demands, but I didn't promise them today according to 60.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0382par1080	I beg you, though.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0381par1081	I'm just giving it to the Deputy Directors of the Group.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0382par1082	No, he pretended to respond to our agricultural reviews, but he didn't really say anything.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0381par1083	But I mean, he didn't mention you by name, so it's 69, don't tease him.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0382par1084	No, I don't want to be teased. The MPs will always want to speak according to Article 60, my dear President.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0381par1085	Of course, he might want to, but we also have an app here, so he's theoretically, yes. I mean, 600 deputies here would want words, of course, of course.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0382par1086	Give them some.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0381par1087	Okay, but according to 60, I didn't make any promises today, and in general, we don't have a budget hearing.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0382par1088	It's already been ruled out, Mr. President, and I want word for a minute.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0381par1089	Then I'll have to give it to all the other friends.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0382par1090	Give it to the others.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0381par1091	No, I just give the demands of the Deputy Directors of the Group or to the people they show.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0383par1092	Mr. President, if a congressman wants a word, he'll be given it as a courtesy.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0382par1093	Mr. President, how can you break the Civil Code? According to Article 60, the public has the right to ask for a word in the Civil Code.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0381par1094	Yeah, but it's not automatically, is it?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0382par1095	It's automatically being given, for Christ's sake!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0381par1096	It's not like that. Let's see if you like it.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0382par1097	Open up, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0381par1098	You open it, mine's open here.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0382par1099	We've been acting as group presidents here, and we know the Civil Code.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0381par1100	Yeah.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0382par1101	Of course!
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0381par1102	Mr. Oktay, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0382par1103	I mean, look, today you added 16 minutes to Mehmet Mush. Mr. Vice President...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0381par1104	No, not sixteen minutes, ten minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0382par1105	You don't run a fair game. Mr. President, you have no justice.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0381par1106	Mr. Oktay, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0382par1107	Look, you can see a minute too much, it's been two minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0381par1108	We're defending the principle.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0382par1109	You're afraid of what we're gonna say, aren't you?
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0381par1110	We're defending the principle.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0382par1111	Because I'm going to talk numbers. He went around and said...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0381par1113	Mr. Oktay, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0384par1115	Mr. President, I'd like to express a few things about the criticism of our late friends. We represent the Kurds from HDP. I actually wanted to express in particular that when I said "we," I meant the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the political parties in parliament, the state of the Republic of Turkey, the government of the Republic of Turkey, the President of Turkey and us. It's not just a political party that represents Kurds, and I stand by that promise. Secondly, I, again, think I'm paying particular attention in my speeches -- especially in the reports -- I would like to say that I also use the expression of our Kurdish citizens, our Kurdish brothers and sisters. Again, there was another issue, which you're not even doing. It's in the form of dealing with DEASH. I mean, what more can I call this? So no matter what we say, if you don't see what we're doing, if you don't hear what we're doing, your ears are closed, then let me explain it to you in the name of what you're hearing, if you want to hear the testimony of the NATO General Secretary. TO THIS day, he has made it much clearer what we want to do with DEASH. I know you'll hear them better, you'll hear them better, but we'd appreciate it if you didn't speak to us in the language of France or other people I don't know about. Again, there were statements from Mr. Engin Altay Bey of the CHP concerning the veterans and the fallen relatives. So I'm explaining this myself, that it's been deposited into the account of every penny, and under other circumstances, it's not possible to use it in any other way. It's already open to all kinds of audits, and with that, there are payments. And I said that again, in a sustainable way, that he would continue. Secondly, it's about a payment; there was a payment of $7 and another payment, I believe, and you showed me a receipt, and I took it.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0385par1121	32 liras, sir. It says below, the pension box salary...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0384par1122	I'm going to look into the part about what that decon is and what 7 TL is. I'll get back to you about that, but I'd like to repeat it again, again, in my earlier statement, if I have the note with me. I also stated that the minimum monthly amount of the rights of the martyr police officers here is 6,150 TL. We're behind this, but other than that, maybe it's something else. I'll look into it, and I'll get back to you as information. The attacks are 17-25. In fact, we all know that this is another, you know, one of the stops in the road along the road, one of those stops on July 15th. This is the facts reflected in the court's transcripts after July 15th. Therefore, I would have been more happy if you had not made an explanation for the attacks -- the attacks of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) -- by giving indirect references to 17-25. Our entire nation is well aware of our struggle with ▪. We continue to fight all our institutions and organizations until the end, and we continue from day one to day, until they reveal all their treachery.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0385par1125	If you'd started with Fettah Tamince, for example, if you were to continue.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0386par1126	Mr. Oktay, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0384par1127	And I think I've explained with all the details whose budget our budget is, and I'm not going back in.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0385par1128	We're not convinced. We said, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0384par1129	So since I'm not convinced of your criticism...
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0385par1130	It's a decision, people.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0384par1131	So if you want to do the same thing for 60 minutes - I don't want to say it again.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0387par1133	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0384par1134	I thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0388par1135	There's people's votes behind it, ink on your authority; it's signed by the people's votes.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0387par1140	Now, on behalf of the person, the second speaker, Ebrü Günay, has handed over his right to Mr. Salihe Aydeniz, the Co-Chair of the Party of Democratic Regionals. Here you are, Mr. Aydeniz. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0389par1144	Mr. President, I salute the esteemed MPs and the people who watch us at the head of television. First of all, I'd like to thank our roof party, the HDP, who gave us the opportunity to speak, and who I'm proud to be its component. Under the roof of the Assembly of Peoples, we speak not of the people, but of the budget of a handful of investors, palaces, and war. For years, your power has made laws, laws, and budgets that have not maintained people, workers, tradesmen, women, and peace. By making parliament a policy-making institution based on the needs of a group of so-called security policies of your power, you've lost the title of the People's Assembly. You've already made the House meaningless with the presidential system. Much of the budget has been divided into wars under the name "safety spending" and some have been divided into supporters to support war policies. While all parts of the country are being transformed into economic, social, political fire instead, the government's difficult device is constantly being used on people like a stick, we are facing a policy where even a mob leader is ended by a critic's prison, but no one cares about you anymore, and no one remains silent about your policies. For the past six years, the plan to break down has led to destruction, war, massacre, torture as a policy and a holistic plan against the Kurdish people. Pressure on the Kurdish (Kurdish) has been transformed into an ordinary procedure of the state and the government to seize the will of the Kurdish (Kurdish). This procedure insists on not seeking a democratic solution to the Kurdish problem in the war under the name of security policies. This insistence is nothing more than the country's economic, social, political collapse. Kemal Kurkut, who was murdered with his naked body in the 2017 province of Nevroz, has shown that the death of Servet Turgut (Secret Turgut) because of the torture of Osman Shiban and Servet Turgut (Turkish) in Van Çatak, and that the statement of the state against the atrocities of the state has been made permanent by the Kurdish enemy and the fascist regime, which is intended to be created through Kurku (Kurdish) and Kurku (Kurdish) in Batman, as well as well as with numerous examples. The country has been transformed into a huge prison. Those who report torture instead of torture, those who advocate peace against war, those who fight for women's rights instead of violence against women. The inhuman, illegal rights violations of the dungeons are in extreme stages. The Justice Department's budget is being raised to ensure that these injustices become permanent, with the news of opening new prisons while the courthouses distribute injustices under the court's instructions. And there's also talk of reform here. We know that your idea of reform is death to Kurds, extortion to trustees, operation to democratic politics, pressure to all opposing parties, deepening isolation, and war to the end. If you are sincere in your reform statement, you can start with the immediate acceptance of the demands of hunger strikes launched in the inadmissible prisons, you can start with the release of sick prisoners, you can start by punishing murderers, you can start by withdrawing the trustees who have the will, you can start by removing the ongoing, deepened isolation of Mr. Abdullah Ocalan, who insists on peace despite all things. Because of your war and spreading policies, you've come from a point of zero trouble with your neighbors to a point where you've barely had any problems with a family. You're raising the Department of Defense's budget to transfer more budgets to Libya, Afrin, Serekaniya, Gire Spi, Karabakh, Şengal, the so-called paramilitary forces you're supposed to send to Sengal for security. The real goal of your war and spreading policies is Kurdish geography without borders. This is a clear sign that you are hostile to the Kurds. ▪ Your spreading policies under the name Security form insecurity both inside and outside. For the past year, you have remained in the classroom for the entire principle of economic, political, social and governance developed in the pandemic process, which has influenced the world and therefore Turkey. From the beginning of the process, you left the people alone with a controlled herd of immune procedures, and then a whole bunch of immune procedures. In the pandemic process, you have implemented policies that monitor segregation. The measures you take cannot protect neither health nor economically workers, small tradesmen, farmers, workers, unemployed. You couldn't run the country and you couldn't run the epidemic. Just as you saw the coup attempt as God's blessing, you saw it as a blessing to turn the pandemic into an opportunity. You said there's no risk of pandemics to the workers who go to the factory to please a bunch of investors, but there's a risk to the workers who go to the resistance. You said there's a risk. There's no risk of pandemics in your party's congresses and rallies, but you interfered with the people who wanted to fight for their democratic rights on the street, using women's pandemics as an excuse. You applauded the health workers with the greatest burden of the pandemic process, but you let them die and die. In light of all of this, the front of democratic politics is so blocked, the National Assembly is no longer a parliament of the peoples, and women are being slaughtered every day, while all the burdens of the economic crisis are being put on the people, while all the resources are being spent on war, Ranta, sidelines, peoples, women, the budget for peace cannot be made. With movement from here, the monogamy mentality will not change unless the republic turns. Everyone needs to know that reality. So we're saying that neither the restored old system nor the current authoritarian monotheistic system is the solution, but it can't be, both are the cause of the crisis. From here on out, the solution is the third path, the creation of a new one with radical radical change, a new social contract. The first step is to combine the goal of democratisation of the republic with a new democratic constitution, as in the 1921 Constitution, based on decentralisation and pluralism. Therefore, we see the democracy alliance, the largest democratic social alliance, the unity of power for democracy as strategic. It's the only way we can get the people of Turkey out of every faith, every identity, from the great crises and the future. Therefore, we call it democratic unity and common struggle against fascism and monotheism. It is important that those who run politics for democracy are as brave, determined, and clear as the citizens on the street, especially if they avoid approaches that can contribute to the life of power in foreign policy. I want to rephrase that we will never give up on all of this and that the common struggle of the peoples will win. I salute those who resist prisons and our people with respect. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0390par1152	Mr. President, for the record, Mr. Aydeniz, in this conversation Mr. Aydeniz, there have been a lot of words in it, but we reject this conversation, every single word, every letter, that has no real relationship with the Kurds.
tbmm-2020-12-07sit03spe0391par1154	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Members of parliament, the 2021-Year Centre Management Budget Law Offer and the 2019 Central Management Computation Law Proposal have been completed. I will now submit to your votes for the transfer of 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2019 Central Management Act Proposal. I submit to your votes that the 2021-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal be passed on to you: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. In the year 2019, I submit to your votes that the provisions of the Central Management Computation Act shall be passed: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. Thus, the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2019 Central Management Law Proposal were approved. Now, in order, I'm going to have them read the 1st article of both proposals: 2021 CENTER REPLICATION OF BLOOD Expenses, Arrives, Financing and Balance MADDE 1- (1) Added to Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 10/12/2003, as shown in the tablet marked "A" (a); A) (1,328,254.386,000 Turkish liras for public administrations under the general budget on the ruler number I B) (II) private budgetary administrations have 119,877,971.000 Turkish liras, C) (III) is an 8.436.256,000 Turkish lira for regulator and auditory institutions on the table. The grant is granted. 2019 ACTIVITY REPUBLICATION MADDE 1- (1) Added to Public Financial Management and Control Law 5018 dated 22/12/2018 and Central Management Budget Law 2019 No. 7156 dated 10/12/2003; A) (I) has 949,025,615,000 Turkish liras for public administrations under the general budget on the ruler. B) (III) private budgetary administrations include 73,771,848,000 Turkish liras, C) (III) The Turkish Lira of 6,536.982,000 to regulator and auditory institutions on the ruler. The grant is granted. (2) The central administration of 2019, which has been added over the years by the power vested in by the Laws, has been added to Law 5018, as shown in the final account receipts of the Central Administration of 2019; A) (I) The budget costs of public administrations under the general budget of 978,569,400,796,47 Turkish liras, B) (II) The budget costs of private budgetary administrations are 104,640,636,329,38 Turkish liras, C) (III) The budget costs of regulator and auditory institutions on the table are 6,089,660,848.42 Turkish liras, It's done as a matter of fact. (3) The central management net budget costs in 2019 is 1,000,026,856,135.04 Turkish Lira. Members of parliament, since the budget law proposal and the final bill proposal will be held together under Article 161 of the Constitution, the negotiations of the central management budgets of 2021 of the public administrations, which are included in Article 1 of the 1st read, will begin in tomorrow's talks with the final accounts of central management in 2019. Under the decision taken, according to the programme, it is 11 p.m. Tuesday (December 8th 2020) to discuss the budget and final accounts of public administrations. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
