tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 88th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now we'll read the Istrillal March. [[Identical March]] [[AK PARTY, CHP, MHP and GOOD PARTY welcome]] According to our agenda, according to the decision made by the General Assembly on April 15, 2020, in accordance with the decision made by the 86°nth Assembly of Turkey, we begin our talks to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Grand Assembly of Turkey and the celebration of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day, and to specify the meaning and significance of the day. Dear MPs, dear guests, my dear nation, we are gathered today to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the establishment of our great House and our national value, the National Sovereignty and Children's Day. Happy is the 100th opening anniversary of our Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the National Sovereignty and Children's Day to our beloved nation, to relatives and relatives, and to all our friends with the love of Turkey in their hearts. At the very beginning of my words, I find it necessary to express a point. We were eager to celebrate the 100th opening anniversary of our Great National Assembly with our nation's intense participation in the squares, with millions of citizens, but going to some restrictions due to the global epidemic that has affected our country has forced us to postpone the events we planned for this blessed anniversary to a later date. Hopefully, in time, we'll overcome this challenge, and this year we'll celebrate the 100th anniversary of the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with intense events. My dear friends, today is a great and important day that will make every member of our nation proud and look forward to the next day with more hope. What makes today great and important is the ceht, zeal and meaning that built the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which was inaugurated a hundred years ago and at this very hour. A hundred years ago, our nation faced the threat of captivity. As a result of the Great Loss and defeat of the First World War, our nation was also wanted to be banished from the last fortress of freedom, Anatolia. Turkey's army was disbanded and its weapons were seized, its capital was occupied, its parliament was disbanded and its economy collapsed. This is what Mustafa Kemal Pasha saw when he went to Samsun on May 19, 1919. But what the invaders and collaborators who sacrificed their dignity to their ambitions couldn't calculate was the nature and the spiritual strength of our holy nation, which is filled with historical honors and achievements. Those who knew this nature and were aware of its spiritual strength soon lit the national battle torch, which would envelop the entire country, regardless of the fact that the conditions seemed disappointing and overwhelming. The leader of the staff that lit that torch and the commander-in-chief of the national struggle, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Pasha, said: "I swear to you, the spiritual power of our nation is above the spiritual power of all nations. The national struggle, which began with our nation's zeal and courage from Samsun, and eventually spread through the stops of Amasya, Erzurum, Sivas, and finally across the country's coast, is the basis of the anniversary that we understand today. To view historical events as just a matter of the past or a matter of chronology is incomplete and restrictive. History, the present, is the source of tomorrow's construction. This is the case for the opening of our Parliament, where we understand the 100th anniversary. So what brings us together today is not just to remember one of the turning points of a victory struggle. We are also gathered today to remember once again what our nation has been fighting and what it chooses to reject and what it has achieved. With all its steps, it is not right to see the national struggle as a memory of the past. The national struggle, which began in Samsun, which resulted in victory in İzmir, is not a process that began and ended at a certain time in history, but is the name of consciousness that makes it necessary to act in its own right direction, uninterrupted and decisive. Therefore, the national struggle, Erzurum and Sivas Congress, the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the position of our beloved nation in the face of the 30 August Victory, in the face of similar dangers and threats, are to declare to the friend the enemy the way he will walk, the way he will pay and the price he will pay. As Turkey realizes the 100th year of the Grand National Assembly, we have to make a point. The leadership of the relief squad and the nation's determined national struggle have two principles: the first is the goal of full independence, and the other is the principle of the fight against the goal of full independence on the basis of national will. With this side, the national struggle is separated from the likes of the world. For this reason, the Veteran Assembly, which we commemorate its 100th year, is not the result of the national struggle, but its headquarters and headquarters. We have to know what we remember and celebrate. This Parliament, where we understand the 100th anniversary of its opening, is not fit to live independently because we have a lot of debt. It's a symbol of all kinds of challenges for full independence, no matter what the cost. This Parliament, where we understand the 100th anniversary, is an adventure to fight the great states. No state is greater than our dignity at a time when those who call it "the Western states." It is a national headquarters that has placed its determination at the center of its existence. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] This Parliament, which we understand is the 100th anniversary, is a centre that has shown its self-control against some factions who co-operate with the occupation forces because of their hatred and desire for the pushers. As the headquarters and headquarters of the national struggle, another important aspect of our First Assembly, which governs this sacred move, is the ability to aim for a common national goal by maintaining their differences. There is no doubt that one aspect of politics and democracy is conflict, and the other is reconciliation. But transforming these differences into an insurmountable grudge, differences of opinion into a vendetta would mean pushing people into a pitfall, as it was doomed to be ineffective. A hundred years ago, Mehmet Akif and Diyap Baykurt, Diyap Agha and Hamdullah Suphi, Hüseyin Avni Ulan, Kılıç Ali, Hasan Basri Bagey and Mahmut Assat Bozkurt, Ali Şükrü Bey and Adnan Adıvar were fighting side by side, side by side. None of the zawats whose names I mentioned were in the House, like the one next to him, giving up on his worldview or talks. But during the Battles of Sakarya, when it comes to the move of Parliament to Kayseri, Diyap Agha, we came here to die, and I will fight until my last bullet. I wonder how he was roaring in the name of the people. It is our wealth as state and nation that all differences should be placed under this roof unless Turkey has encouraged and supported violence as a method, as long as it does not refer to its existence, integrity, unity, and veracity. This is the spirit that created the First Assembly, which led to the success of the national struggle, and the yeast of our power. My dear friends, because of the global pandemic, which has been a new and heavy experience for mankind in recent months, many claim that nothing in the world will ever be the same again. Even those talking about a new global design are going further and further. These issues will be discussed better over time, the sizes of the epidemic and the effects of many areas will be seen better, but once again, on the occasion of this epidemic, and the picture that emerges from epilepsy is today that the system that is current in the world is not sustainable. There can be no talk of global peace unless the cruel and unjust order of some people, who don't take into account human beings, differences, poor people, has only the rights, and some of whom have only the duties, changes. Today, this epidemic, where even the developed countries are helpless against it, is greater than the world's 5 ▪ which has been persistently expressed by our President. In the light of its determination, a new international order and a new one of the basic traditions of our thousands of years of state understanding, let the state live. The government once again demonstrates the importance of its principle. (EC PARTY turns to applause) However, no matter how the events follow, Turkey will not cause it to deviate or give up its claims at a regional and global level. The Republic of Turkey, which takes its inspiration from the national struggle and its power from its saintly nation, is now determined to be an actor who is not a problem at the diplomatic tables established by hegemon forces, but is now a wanted contributor to the solution. Anyone who tries to ignore or test that determination is doomed to see his account broken. Turkey, which rose from its ashes with determination and determination a hundred years ago and was presumed to be completely exhausted, is stronger, more enthusiastic, and more alive today. A hundred years ago, Turkey was printed with mothballs because it couldn't find iodine in the wound of its soldier on the front, which today provides medical assistance to governments that are desperate for the global epidemic. The question of which direction the world will evolve will be long debated, but Turkey will also have a say and claim in the new world. There are two reasons why we are so sure: First, the world can no longer be managed by this twisted and unfair arrangement. Secondly, Turkey shines on the horizon of humanity as a big, living move. My dear friends, my dear nation, dear children, young people, one of the things that makes this day meaningful is that today is given to children who are vital to our nation. Since 1927, it has also been celebrated as a children's holiday. This approach is one of the sides that make Turkey superior to other states. The Republic of Turkey declared one of its most important national days a holiday for children in 1927. The child and the youth are the future of society, the claim of tomorrow. Therefore, we must train our children and our young ones in our national and spiritual values, to be on their feet, to be lovers of sovereignty and freedom, to be equipped and qualified for the age. In this regard, our educational institutions, our ministries, especially the Ministry of National Education, and our NGOs, have a great deal of responsibility. At this point in my speech, I would like to address our children and our young people: you are a member of a great nation whose past is full of brilliant achievements and respect for human values, and as you learn our history and as you get to know our ancestors, you will find in yourself the power to do greater things. Not with contempt of other nations and societies, but with human virtues and zeal for the benefit of all mankind, you will grow and strengthen our state. It is up to you to move the land, the state, and the values of civilization that your ancestors, your elders, have earned with harsh sacrifices and costs. Turkey, yes, is our homeland, but Turkey is also our duty. Our respect for our flag, our loyalty to our country, and the purpose to move our nation further are the things that make our lives meaningful and our paths bright. We have full faith that you will succeed on this path. My dear friends, on April 23, 2020, we commemorate the 100th anniversary of the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which rules the national struggle, and it is a day of pride, joy, and gratitude for those who work for the Veteran Assembly. On this occasion, from the day that Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his fellow combatants were opened, I remember with mercy and gratitude all our deputies and statesmen who served under the Great National Assembly of Turkey and all the sons of their country, who were veterans and finally resisted the coup on the 15th of July, who served to build the Great Turkey. For many hundreds of years on the road to great Turkey in glory, unity and unity... [[AK PARTY, MHP and GOOD PARTY]] I salute you all. Members of parliament, I will promise the leaders of the political party group represented in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey ten minutes, three non-group political party representatives three minutes each, according to the decision made. I will also give three minutes of my word to representatives of other political parties represented in parliament, in accordance with the fact that we are having a special union celebrating the 100th anniversary of our Parliament. I read the order: Mr. Mehmet Naci Bostancı, Chairman of the Justice and Development Party Parliament Group, Chairman of the Republican People's Party, Chairman of the People's Party, Mr. Kemal Kildaroglu, Co-Chair of Peoples' Democratic Party and Parliament Group Chairman of Peoples' Democratic Party, Mardin MP Mr. Mihat Sancar, Chairman of the National Movement Party of Parliament and Chairman of Parliament, Mr. President of Parliament, Mr. Edip Semikh Yalçin, Mr. Edirne MP of the Parliament Party of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) and Mr. Orhan Çakır. The first statement belongs to Justice and Development Party Parliamentary Group Chairman and Ankara MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0002par0041	Mr. President, Mr. Presidents, Honourable MPs, our beloved nation, I salute you all. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is 100 years old; I hope it will continue its course as the legislature of many centuries of nation's will. I hereby congratulate you on your National Sovereignty and Children's Day on April 23, the feast of our sentence. The accounting of the century, as Ibn Haldun (Ibn Haldun) said, should be taught not as a storyteller but as a political historian, but as a lesson for the future. That long century into the opening of parliament, those 19th-century modernization attempts have passed through efforts to renege on the empire. Ottomanism, Islamism, Turkishism are the pillars of the forefront to sustain the state and society. The process of nationalism calling on nations and masses to become the prime perpetrators of politics has not only consumed the Ottoman Empires, including the Habsburgs, the Romanovs, or the Kaiser's Germany, where Bismarck has given power. The Ottomans, who fought on the seven fronts of the First World War, reached the end of the road with Mondros. Other than the 15th Corps on the Eastern Front, their armies were distributed, they were economically exhausted, they were given the name of the defeated family and treated as "vae victis" (vae victis). As a matter of fact, a handful of lands have been invaded by Greeks, Italians, French and English. On 15 May, the occupation of Izmir (Izmir) turned the wound in the heart of the nation into a fiery rage. There are three ways of dealing with this painting. Number one: no matter what happens, it's unacceptable to protect status quo and sovereignty. Second, the demeaning approach to appointing masters in countries whose self-management license has been denied. The third is the approach that puts the nation's presence and sovereignty in the center, believing in the nation's struggle, not the mercy of the opponents. The third one is to Kuvaimilli. Let us quickly state that the understanding of Kuvaimilli in our country's territorial geography is also valid today, and the importance of this spirit and will for the fate and future of our nation in the face of recent developments is evident in all its political response. The state of the country is described in the testimony of the period. The Soviet diplomat Frunze speaks of Anatolia with all its poverty and deprivation; the houses of the land, the low agriculture production, the scabs that moan, the roads that have become a ghost country, the sick and tired Anatolia. Halide Edip often mentions the most basic food matter in his memory: "Ekmek and cheese" and "Jacob Qadri" and "Kororoma"; Tarık Büğa, "Little Agha" and "Pharaoh"; Attila İlhan, "Seraadet"; Kemal Tahir, "The Wolf's Law" and "Division"; Suseyya Aydemir, "Man Seeks Water"; Nazim Hikmet, "The War of Salvation"; Falih Rıfcı, "Kinkaya" and various sources" are staged at the scene of the period. In difficult times, it takes a strong leader to bring people together, to turn that power into a fist of steel, to stand as a strong will in the turmoil of doubts, anxiety, and to carry faith in others, to overcome the obstacles inside as well as those outside, to lay the foundations of an independent, honorable country. The people have taken that leader out of their hearts, and we all know his name is Mustafa Kemal. As a victorious commander on many fronts, Mustafa Kemal, as a prestigious leader, set fire to his will to Kuvaimilliya in Samsun, when he left on 19 May. Those in power and determination to remove the dagger of occupation and fight for the glory of the country; Fevzi Çakmak, Kazim Karabekir, Ismet Inönu, Rauf Orbay, Bekir Sami, and many others came together under his leadership; Havza, Amasya, Erzurum, and Sivas were the heart of this campaign on April 23, 1920. Sakarya, the victory of August 30th, the execution of Mysakimilli, finally the declaration of the republic on October 29th, three and a half years after the opening of the Assembly; these are the beginnings of our century's history. We need to take a good look at the resources for the placement of our topics in history, one sentence at a time. Let us not forget that those who do not know history have a short list of rules about it, and they will not be blamed for speaking with a mouth full of courage from an empty head. Mustafa Kemal, when he completes the opening of the House with the republic, he defines it as the virtue of the Republic. Republic is virtue because it is the regime of adult people, citizens of decision and will. Turning it from word to word into the reality of life, its work is recorded in the development, development, modernization of the country. When the Republic was established, there were 13.5 million populations, and today there are 83 million. While more than 90 percent of the people live in the village, much more are in the cities today. The republic has achieved great success in each criteria, from schooling rates to production, consumption values, and has guaranteed the existence of those underage people who are the basis for its existence in social and economic conditions. There are countless people behind this hundred-year-old savings. The republic's Bani has taken important roles starting with Ataturk, the prime minister, the head of state, opened the way for society with duties as special as the public, contributed to its education, its wealth, its farms, its buildings, its factories, its jackets, its future generations, its jackets, its children, its children, I remember with respect and gratitude. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Of course, in this whole process, there will be political debates in the nature of democracy. ▪ The will of the people is the sum of all that we call the will of the people. Although the successors are rivals of predecessors, they are actually partners in character and position, because the total meaning of political positions is to maintain the common denominator. However, the character of reconciliation of politics is as important to democracies as the competition. Uncompromising competition exposes the dark side of democracy that leads to common destiny. To be careful is the most fundamental duty of all politics. It's the insurance of our partnership to preserve the democratic floor with precision. All kinds of violence and terror are the worst enemies of democracy. One of the main tasks of freedom, the honor of the idea is to take a clear stand for the ghost of terror and violence over democracy. In 18 years of 100 years of Parliament history, as an AK PARTY, we worked hard to provide a better life, a better world for our democracy, our republic, our community, each of our people. It's not enough to appreciate what they're doing, it's also necessary to be right. As we observed our country's historical savings in each step, we also conducted the accounting of our future honorary duties, one eye in the past, the other in the future. Our basic principle is to always reduce our flaws, increase our virtues. Of course, we were criticized yesterday, and we'll be criticized tomorrow. Every criticism for our country's total interests has a place above our heads, and we have a price and value in mind for the mediated criticism of micro-interests. In the name of our democracy, I'd like to emphasize something important. The greatest danger to democracies is not his enemies, but the definitions of naive democracy that can't be real, and the fictional criticism that is based on it. It is suggested that such perfect democracies exist only in the heavens, so to speak, and never land on earth. So it's an important principle to make competition and criticism on the basis of political art, to never break from reality, to show sensitivity and care for our democracy. After transitioning to the presidential government system, we stand as the Republic Alliance, where legislatures as a strong parliament work towards resolving the issues of the country, with the contribution and participation of all parties. A hundred years ago, the Parliament, the heart of our nation's struggle for sovereignty, was once again the noble address of resistance and defiance of coupgers in the coup d'etat of July 15th.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0003par0057	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0002par0058	Today is the only place of law enforcement, and its power is taken from the vital quality of society's will that penetrates the process. We have a new century ahead of us. Huge advances in communication and technology radically transform social relations, the structures of countries, the flow of capital and labor at a global level. Political society's resources, means, power and ideology are gaining new meanings. Values such as conscience, rightfulness, humanity need more tools and labor troops to raise themselves in the face of reorganized networks of interests. In the past centuries, those who carry the burden of slavery, slave trade, today, are going on the history stage as the maintainer of the same legacy against refugees. We are well aware of the contribution of enlightenment and positivism to modernization, but we see together what disaster is caused by the exploitive perspective of a master human being in the face of nature, such as social Darwinism, racism, discrimination, hostility, great conflict of interest. A world that has lost its soul is not possible to live.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0004par0063	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0002par0064	Those who build glass mansions over other people's pain, poverty, drama will never be able to sit there in peace. The world is small and everyone's fate is more common than any other time in the past. Turkey, which walks into the future in the teaching of history, is a country capable of turning its disputes into compromises with great ideals. On the day that we celebrate the 100th year of parliament, a language and approach that will bring forth our partnership of fate will be the greeting of our country's candidate to become the conscience and the light of the world. We're having this ceremony during a global outbreak. Our country prevents both its preparation and struggle for the world after the outbreak and its support for global solidarity outside. Man will surely defeat this plague, but he will learn that it is possible to live in peace with nature in this world, along with this painful lesson. On account of the 100th year, Mr. Speaker, it is 21 p.m. 00, he has called for an Istliklal Anthem throughout the country.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0005par0069	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0002par0070	In accordance with the principle that our beautiful country must be strong in all areas for its sovereignty, our President and President, who lead it, will naturally respond to this call. In the same direction as the AK PARTY, I would like to inform you that we have invited everyone to sing the Istrillal March at the appointed hour, as we declare full participation. In the 100th year of our special session of the plague in the shadow of the disease, while I salute the sentence prepared with Mr. Presidents and our beloved nation once again, as a student from the boarding schools of the state and president of the AK PARTI Group, we all share two fundamental principles, I complete my words once again by expressing our common value: Long live our republic! Long live our democracy! Yours truly.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0006par0074	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. He is now the leader of the Republican People's Party and the chairman of Parliament Group, İzmir MP Kemal Kilicdaroğlu. Here you are, Mr. Kilicdaroglu.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0007par0078	Mr. President, on behalf of the Republican People's Party, I congratulate you on the 100th anniversary of the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and on behalf of my esteemed citizens and our future, the beloved children who are watching us at the beginning of their television, and on behalf of the Republican People's Party, your National Sovereignty and Children's Day on April 23rd. Mr. President, the esteemed members of our Parliament, a great journey from Istanbul a hundred years ago is the foundation of the establishment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which turned 100. The hero of this journey is Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Ataturk describes the beginning of this great journey in the session of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on April 24, 1920: The first phase of the journey of Ataturk, which, on April 23, 1920, was completed by the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on Friday (April 23, 1920) at 13.45 p.m. Dear children, who are our hope and future, the historical meaning of the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is that sovereignty is now the common nation, which is what is today in our Constitution. Mr. President, the High National Assembly of Turkey is the Parliament that rules the National Liberation War; the Assembly of Turkey is the Parliament that decides that we should bring democracy into our multi-party life; the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, against the July 15th treacherous coup attempt, defends law and justice; the Assembly of Turkey, which states to the world that the Turkish Parliament is a part of the civilized world; the Parliament of Turkey, the State Assembly, the State and the Rumeli Müdafai Law Society, which defends the rights, law and justice; and the Parliament of Turkey, which defends its entire parliament; and the Assembly of Turkey, which is an example of the nation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have problems today. We need to resolve the problems quickly. In this regard, important tasks fall to Turkey's Grand National Assembly in its 100th year. The source of our problems is largely the coup d'états that neutralize the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation, and the coup law that they enforced, and the coup law, which is the result of these laws. We need to overcome our problems with common sense, reason, knowledge, knowledge, knowledge, together, without prejudice. Our measurement should be based on the interests of our country and our nation; our goal should be to crown the republic with democracy. Let's try to solve problems with this understanding as the Turkish Grand National Assembly steps forward into the second century. In the 100th year of the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I submit a 16-point call to the knowledge and appreciation of you, the valued members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and our nation: 1) With the participation of all social, political and cultural communities, we must establish a new democratic constitution. The basis of this constitution should be based on the principle of separation of forces, the basis of the balance-responsibility that should be made in democracies. 2) A new and powerful democratic parliamentary system, which we call the backbone of the new constitution the crowning of the republic with democracy. It must not be forgotten that in our democratically crowned republic, all obstacles to freedom of opinion, thought and faith and freedom of organization, including media and unionisation, will be removed. 3) The independence of the judicial institution, one of the most important feet of the rule of separation of powers and the state of law, must be ensured. All obstacles to access to justice must be removed. 4) Another important part of the principle of separation of forces is living. A new electoral system must be established in Turkey's Grand National Assembly to ensure that national will is represented in the broadest form. In addition, a new political moral code is needed to strengthen the trust between a politician and a citizen. 5) Another important step in the principle of separation of forces is to walk. The executive must be open to absolute control and accountability with all its actions. The Court, which serves on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, must oversee all public institutions and institutions. The head of the final account commission for Turkey's Grand National Assembly should also be given to opposition parties. 6) Local governments should be deposed from the regulatory institutions of Rant relations, making them the main elements of the welfare state. A well-defined collaboration and the functioning of local governments must be increased within the framework of the business department. 7) In public employment, a non-Nepotism-based employee policy must be rushed. 8) A lack of employment in education, health, social security and security should be targeted especially within the framework of politic-based employment policies. The future of our children, the health of our citizens, the care of our disabled and the care of our elderly, the internal and external security of our country, must be created with a national understanding without question. 9) A minimum income guarantee must be provided for our citizens, in which case the law on family benefits must be issued immediately. Turkey announced that it would take out family aid insurance, with a law approved by Parliament in 1971. 1971-2020, my compliments. 10) In democratic standards, a public tender system is to be passed on to justice and control. 11) Tax policy must be restructured to encourage production and employment. The tax burden on the taxpayers must be drawn to reasonable levels. 12) According to TÜİK data, one of the three is unregistered. Unregistered employment must be fought by providing social support. It is now known that unionisation is the most effective course in this struggle. 13) Turkey must be locked on to its bid to produce a high added product within the framework of a new plan. In this context, all production policies must be ecological, along with other forms of production. 14) Unauthorised access to health care is a right and must be free. Protective and other health care should be planned in this direction. In planning, agriculture should be treated as one of the main strategic sectors. In this context, legal provisions for access to food with healthy conditions must be made. 16) Education must be planned with its partners as the most important, most fundamental part of Turkey's development strategy. The sole goal of educational policies is to raise the idea, the free, the knowledge, the free, and the conscience of free generations. In our universities, any thought, any idea, should be discussed freely, all scientific work must be carried out freely. Dear lawmakers, I believe that when we do this with our own free will and together, politics will become an area of thinking about solving problems, rather than a vicious conflict. Because of the outbreak of Covid-19, politicians, scientists, NGOs, officials of international organizations say: "Nothing will ever be the same anymore." At least then we have to ask ourselves: "If nothing is going to be the same, how will the future be?" If we truly crown our Republic with democracy, we will certainly set an example for all the oppressed nations again. Dear lawmakers, when we do this, we will leave our children with a high democratic standards, a habitable Turkey. Not just for our children, but for the history of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and for the responsibility of history itself. I salute you all with the wish of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to carry out this historic mission. [[Applause from CHP rows]] And finally, I honor and cherish the 115 MPs who arrived at the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 23 April 1920, including Major Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. To our citizens who died in the outbreak of Covid-19, to our security forces who were killed in the fight against terrorism, to God's mercy, and to his relatives. And with all of our veterans, I thank you to all of our health workers, who have moved and honored all of us, and who have struggled with the sacrifice of this plague. Yours truly.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0008par0107	Thank you, Mr. Kilicdaroglu. It now belongs to Peoples' Democratic Party Co-Chair and Parliamentary Group Chairman Mardin MP Mithat Sancar. Here you go, Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0009par0111	Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, anniversaries have to mean something. Of course, they offer an important occasion to celebrate the glorious pages of the past today, but they deserve more than that, and that is a very thorough thought, a comprehensive accounting. If we look at what happened a hundred years ago in terms of understanding today and the future, these celebrations, these ceremonies, they're worth more. So I'm going to try to look at the establishment of the First Assembly a hundred years ago, or the establishment of the Grand National Assembly in this framework, and I'm going to share with you what I've seen. Yes, we all know the conditions of the First Assembly, and I don't think I need to tell you over and over again, a country under occupation and the conditions under which the national struggle continues. The conditions are severe, but local congresses are organised, congressional meetings are held throughout the country, national struggles are organised with these conventions. In fact, the road to the establishment of the House is through these local conventions. The First Assembly is a sea where the local conventions are almost flowing; the local conventions are rivers, the First Assembly is a sea where these rivers are gathered. What do they have? It's got a lot of features, but I'd like to remind you of what I've seen most important here. For one thing, it involves the country's social, religious, ethnic, intellectual diversity under those circumstances, a pluralistic Parliament. There are some missing, of course, some not covered. And maybe these are the issues that we need to evaluate and account for today. There are many examples used to describe this pluralism, but I'm just going to think about what's considered in the first place, not just the ones that look less like it: for example, there are members known as Mevlevi, Bayrami and Nakshibendi Sheiks, Abdülhalim Çelebi, Hadji Mustafa Effendi, Haj Hajcı Fevzi Effendi, and there are people who are known as Georgians, and there are Kurds, and there are mebuses, and there are Arabes, and there are Arabes, and there are many other important people who are involved in their own identity, and they are not only in their own identity. This is one of the most important qualities of the First Assembly. This quality, of course, has been completed with other features. Look, the First Assembly has a legitimate sense of governance, and its principle is the sovereignty of the people. Yes, he says that sovereignty belongs to the nation unconditionally, but as we will see later, the Constitution of 1921 adds a decree to its head. I'm not going to go into the details of the national will, the public will debate here, of course, but perhaps we can better understand what the will of the people means by looking at the exercise of the First Assembly and then at the Constitution. The principle of people's sovereignty means public administration, but it also means a government that, beyond government for the benefit of the people, is a government that the public has entered into at all levels. As a matter of fact, the Constitution, which was declared about ten months after the establishment of the Assembly, is based on this understanding; a governing system in the municipality that guarantees public participation in decisions is forming a model of democracy. The First Assembly follows a method of negotiation and agreement. We're talking about a period of time when people from so many different parts, so many different ideas, under such difficult circumstances, could never put the negotiations aside, and we're talking about a period of understanding that constantly puts the agreement forward, and we're celebrating his 100th anniversary today. And let me explain why that method is so important. Besides, it was a legislature. For example, it opens on April 23, 1920, making 109 laws until April 12, 1921. Please, don't think I'm being sarcastic, but it's all in the name of the law, not the bag, not the bag; each one of them has its name, each one has its way of negotiating and deciding according to the law. That's why it's a legislature. The House is in charge of itself, you know, a Parliamentary government system. This means that any authority, three important officials of the state, law enforcement, executive and judiciary are gathering in parliament, and yet, this Parliament does not have the sense of monopolizing ownership of these powers because, as I said, the 1921 Constitution transfers a very important portion of its authority to local governments. The powers he gives to local governments mean limiting his own authority, which means he does not prefer to have a decentralized, authoritarian government; on the contrary, he is creating a system in the local community that will ensure the participation of the people, in accordance with the logic of the principle of public sovereignty. Dear friends, at the center of that system is the power and the Constitution of 1921 clearly states it. The mayor, the autonomy. It also regulates how to govern autonomy in detail, where it promotes the administration of the ministry, as well as its own functioning in the local area. So in the local area, the provinces and the nahis will be ruled by services, the services will come by choice, and it will be up to them to choose their chief amongst themselves. He's setting up a system like this. Under what circumstances? In terms of such heavy occupation and national struggle, the Battle of Salvation. Why are they doing this? But why, for example, does Mustafa Kemal Pasha, the leader of the national struggle, share these things when he has so much authority and opportunity? Because if you want consent, because you want unity, you're going to accept diversity, you're going to accept negotiation. True consent could only be granted equal respect for everyone's identity, equal respect for everyone's will, and in those circumstances, in that harsh period, there was a need for common consent, a need for that kind of trust, and that trust could not have been given by the pressure, force, pressure, threat, but it could have been achieved with confidence, but it could have been done in an environment where everyone considered themselves equal. Look, today, we're in severe crisis conditions, and we're facing a human-threatening epidemic. I'm just going to give you an example of how Parliament led a severe crisis at that time: during the Battle of Sakarya, it was very violent, and there were about 15,000 wounded who moved to Ankara. More than 15,000 wounded who have just moved to Ankara... what will they do? The parliament immediately forms a crisis administration within itself, tasking the Sinop Mebusu, which you all know by name Reza Nur. Reza Nur chooses three of the mebuses to co-ordinate a crisis. They separate the wounded into units, transfer them to the city's hospitals. They're calling doctors in places that aren't hospitals, trying to get treatment in areas that aren't hospitals. They're handing out less injured people to their homes as guests. It is only possible when people are free, their identities are respected, their consent is freely revealed. Well, that's the kind of Parliament that could have done it, and it did it. Now, let me finish with a few words about today. Dear MPs, Mr. President, the Constitution of 1921 had two basic grounds. The first basis for such a constitution was the principle of public sovereignty, the understanding that the public accepted as a liability to its own problem. The second was the solution to the Kurdish problem. Mustafa Kemal Pasha was aware of the weight and seriousness of the problem, trying to resolve it with the idea of a unified democracy based on the principle of public sovereignty. There was a lot of effort at that time - local democracy and the will of the people. Unfortunately, we left this road that the country found that day to solve this problem. Now the solution to the country's problems comes from combining these two principles, connecting these two areas. People's sovereignty includes both local democracy, and valuable friends, where people can govern themselves in the local area -- of course, there's a certain framework for that -- the creation of the system and the equality of everyone's identity and the commitment to constitutional acceptance and constitutional security. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, Mr. President, when we look back a hundred years from now, unfortunately, we have to accept today that we are facing a Parliament far from the characteristics of the First Assembly. If a question is asked, which of the strongest and weakest Parliaments in this hundred years are they? I mean, my answer is clear, I think the answers of many people are clear; yes, we celebrate the year anniversary of the most powerful Assembly in the weakest Parliament. (APPLAUSE) That should tell us something. The other is, which is the weakest of all local governments? Let's ask myself, which is the weakest of all? My answer is clear; in the 100th year, when local governments were the strongest, we are faced with a sense of governance that almost literally obliterates local governments. This is unacceptable; neither is the application of trustees acceptable, nor is it acceptable for CHP municipalities to block their efforts to manage the crisis. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP and CHP) If we really want to fight this epidemic that threatens humanity but does not strike everyone equally, we need the public's consent. In order to produce public consent, you must respect the will of the people. Public health cannot be considered apart from the will of the people. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0010par0125	I've given you four minutes before. Give me one more minute, and I'll finish. Here you go. Thank you very much. You can't maintain public health without respect for the will of the people; it's that simple. We've got two more hundred years, one 1921, one 1923. If we understand 1921, without the strong Parliament today, I think Turkey's constitutionalism will go through a period where it is largely over. So if we fail to establish a strong parliament in the coming period, then constitutionalism will end on the 100th anniversary of 1921. If we get to 1923 like this, I'm afraid there won't be much left of the republic. Therefore, the strong Parliament, the democratic constitution and the democratic republic, is the foundation of our collective, peaceful life in this country. Let me tell you that the greatest gift we can give the children on this occasion is a peaceful, free country. Let me finish by giving my greetings to the health workers, all our people, all our children, all of you, my heartfelt respects. [[Applause from HDP and CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Sancar.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0011par0133	Mr. President, a brief request...
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0010par0134	Dear friends, when it's all over, then I'll promise you all together, please, there are other demands, we're doing fine, let's move on.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0012par0135	I entered because Mr. Bostanci entered; if he did, I'd withdraw my request.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0010par0136	Let's move on. It is now the seat of İstanbul MP Edip Semih Yalçın, the chairman of the National Movement Party and Parliamentary Group Chairman Osmaniye MP. Here you go, Mr. Yalçin.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0013par0140	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, an analysis of the Turkish Grand National Assembly and its vital function in our history will make sense today. On this happy day when we have reached the 100th anniversary of the opening of the assembly, there are no words to describe my happiness in addressing you under this blessed roof. There's no doubt that today, here you feel the same feeling, the same excitement. I see your heart swell, your eyes moistened with pride, pride, and pride. Dear friends, you know, the story of the foundation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not the story of such novels and fairy tales; it is the greatest myth of freedom and democracy mankind has ever seen. This myth is my character of liberty and sovereignty. It's the very essence of a nation's conflict of existence that speaks its motto to the understanding of two centuries. Happily for us, we are the last nation representatives of today to realize the 100th year of the First National Assembly of Turkey, which crowns the Imperial War with victory. We are blessed to be the friends of a nation whose bravery and heroism have made it known to the world. Honourable MPs have been involved in dizzying events from the Mondros Investigation to the arrival of April 23, 1920. The individual resistance campaigns against occupations all over the country were organised by the establishment of the Defense Laws and Reddi İlhak Associations. At that time, it was time for the resistance groups, called Kuvaimilliya, to be gathered under one roof and to be organized by a leader and channeled to the common goal. The first step to this purpose was taken at the Erzurum Congress. The Erzurum and Sivas Congress are two important events leading to the national struggle of Mustafa Kemal Pasha, who began to sow the seeds of national resistance to Anatolia. The Sivas Congress, which aims to create a national goal and a governing union, has been the largest rehearsal of the National Assembly. Mustafa Kemal Paşa performed the 2nd rehearsal of a national Assembly on 27 December 1919, at the Agrikat Institute, where he came from Sivas to Ankara as Head of the Committee. Mustafa Kemal Pasha has prepared the infrastructure of the national Parliament in Ankara. The Agricultural Institute soon became the headquarters of the National War. In those days, I would like to remind Yunus Nadi Bey, Mustafa Kemal Pasha, who said: "We have reached a time when everything must be legitimate; first the Parliament, then the army, Mr. Nadi. The assembly is the greatest of truths, and the nation and the Parliament will make the army. He explained that the struggle for salvation of the national Assembly would be the most legitimate basis for the fight for salvation. Honourable MPs, all of the MPs gathered in Ankara for the opening of the first legislature, have been selected in their districts, so the First Assembly is the establishment of the national will. There has never been another parliament in history who has fought for independence and who has based it on national will and legitimacy. In this respect, the First National Assembly of Turkey is remarkable and unique, a revolutionary Assembly, the only one to rebel against invasion, persecution and slavery is the Parliament of war, a symbol of the legitimacy of the total resistance resolution against attacks against the security of the country. As of April 23, 1920, the Committee of the Committee, which was formed in the Sivas Congress, handed over its powers to Parliament. All the resistance groups, all the Kuvaimilline agencies, gathered under the roof of the House, and the national will became concrete and riveted. This great historical development has allowed the world to prove the legitimacy of the steps and the struggle that have been taken until then. The First Assembly was essentially an inspiration for the hope of the oppressed and exploited nations. And the voice of the wrong-doers is the voice of the oppressed. One of the major issues of the First Turkish National Assembly is its heroism and sacrifice; in this case, it is the council of heroes and fools. The First Assembly, the integrity of the country, the independence of the nation, is the tent of those who pass through, through, through, through, through, through. While national representatives were on their way to Ankara, they acted at the risk of absence, hunger, sleeplessness, death and perfection. Most of the MPs have lived in a school building near the Assembly for a long time, lying in simple bunk beds in student dorms; all of them have been fed with a tablet meal that is no more than cooked in a military caravan; all of them have gone on the duty of law enforcement, just as students have been running to school. As such, the First Assembly is a council of absences, a noble nation that shares one of its two socks, one of its bread, half of its vaccine, but its whole soul, and its determination to exist. On April 23, 1920, the bench was a gift from an Ankara carpenter in the hall where representatives of the nation met. At the time of the MPs' residence, two oil lamps and hair stoves were provided from coffeehouses from Ankara Muallim School. The bureau's belongings and materials were also brought from official apartments. Lawmakers sharing Ankara's and the country's deprivations have also donated part of their wages to the Parliamentary Government to spend on the national struggle. Honourable MPs, the First Assembly is a Parliament of National understanding, the hearts that hit the common interest met at the same pot. A thousand years of brotherhood has been updated in the land of the blessed land, which is watered with sweat, which is yogurted with blood and sealed with life. The First Assembly is the council of extraordinary conditions, equipped with extraordinary powers in accordance with the requirements and circumstances of that period. At that time, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was fully committed to law enforcement and executive powers, which means it was both the lawmaker and the government, and it did extraordinary things with its extraordinary function. After the opening, parliament began to function smoothly, like a 40-year parliament, and soon it was in the hands of the nation; in the first place, a draft was prepared and adopted the First Constitution of the state of Turkey, the Act of the Organization-Isality. The rule of law is the nation's unconditionalness. The law, in all truth and wisdom, has been established at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The First Assembly is a sacred temple of democracy, an idealist and more than 90 per cent of it is a democratic parliament of well-educated people. Although fierce debates were held between the first and second parties in the House, none of them made concessions from their love and sincerity. When it comes to the integrity of the country, the independence of the nation, all differences, different beliefs, and thoughts have been left aside, and hearts have struck in common. The dough of the national assembly is from the people; the key is from the faith, from the revelation of the lock. The First Assembly of the Great National Assembly of Turkey is a legislature of determination and national oaths; it has never been returned from the oaths made there. While the cannons were being heard from Polatlı and Ankara had been threatened at some point, representatives of the nation had never left Ankara. When the assembly's founding good news was announced on April 23, 1920, the nation's centuries of suffering stopped. The light of independence that began to shine on the horizon with the opening of the National Assembly has sparked over Ankara. The birth pains of a new Turkish state, which embraces the 20th century, began at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The First National Assembly of Turkey means victory; the stones of the road to victory are gradually, phase by stage, with great determination. Honourable MPs, I hereby congratulate our children on the Day of April 23rd, which is a guarantee of our future. I pray that the holy Ramazan bear will bring peace, quiet and health to the Turkish Islamic world. As I put an end to my words, I remember both Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his comrades, the representatives of the founding Assembly and their employees, our heroic martyrs who sacrificed their lives, with mercy, gratitude, and respect; we owe them both our present and our tomorrows, their souls. I salute the Veteran Assembly, where we celebrate its 100th year.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0014par0151	Thank you, Mr. Yalçin. In turn, Mr. Orhan Çakır, the chairman of the Good Parliament Group, Mr. Orhan Çakır, is the deputy member of the Group, Mr. Lütfü Türkkan. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0015par0155	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the great Parliament on this meaningful day when we understand the 100th honorary age of the establishment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. A hundred years ago today, on Friday, 23 April 1920, a sunny afternoon in front of the National Assembly, after the prayers were read and the sacrifices were taken, Mustafa Kemal Pasha cut the ribbons at the door with red-and-white ribbons tied to his hand, climbing the two three-digit staircase of the Capitol building. When it comes to the opening of the House, there are 115 MPs inside. In fact, Parliament will open with 324 MPs, but on 16 March 1920, Istanbul was occupied, and MPs of the Anatolian and Rumeli Defence Law Society and Parliament-i Mebusan members were arrested and exiled by the British. A hundred years ago, 115 deputies arrived at Ankara on that day full of great honor and courage. Of the 115 MPs, Sinop MP Deputy Sheriff takes the presidential stand, and in his brief speech, he opens the House, stating that Istanbul had been invaded and the throne was a prisoner. At the back of the parliamentary platform, take up residence in the Ottoman Empire. There will come a time when a Turkish sign will take the place of this sign; that Turkish text, which you see behind me now, is the unconditional nation. This is the day when 115 patriots who would rather die for the sake of the country than for the welfare of the nation, the representatives of the nation, the first session of the Assembly on the same day. At the age of 100, it's a great honor and pride to be a member of the House, which is named after 115 heroic sons. In the same spirit and excitement, together, they declare the name of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and show the invaders the noble power of independence from the past of the Turkish nation. This is also the first step in this nation's great march to control its own destiny. This great step has another historic turning point. Turkey's Grand National Assembly was founded on April 23, 1920, and in the first time in the state's life in a thousand and four hundred years, it means the use of the Turkish name for the first time. In particular, the Parliament, which successfully put together the full sovereignty, freedom, and the function of forming a new state, which has taken over the fight for independence and has implemented the best example of political representation in the process. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who carried out all phases of the Peace War, with the power he received from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, received the greatest support from lawmakers while making the impossible possible. The days have come when the Clave is tired of fighting, my dear sir, and what is this House? Let us distribute it. Gazi Mustafa Kemal, especially from those who do not understand the importance of national sovereignty. Ataturk is a leader of the 20th century who does not understand living without parliament. According to Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, Parliament is not a Nazi; it is truth and is the greatest truth. Ataturk chose to execute it through the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which includes representatives of the Turkish nation, rather than by increasing his powers to do what he wanted to do; he has never forgotten that the rule of this nation could only be carried out through the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and through the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Under the leadership of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, our nation has been one heart under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, whose power is hidden under those difficult circumstances. Our High Council is a Parliament established in impossible circumstances at a time when the enemy invaded the entire country. This is the heroic Congress celebrating its 100th honorary age today. During one century's history, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has become the most important institution of Turkish political life and has fulfilled its duties as a fortress of democracy at different times. The Parliament, which faced four different Constitutions and many coups during this century, remained an indispensable institution of Turkish political life despite all challenges. Our High Council, as it was a hundred years ago, is today the heart of our democracy, the source of our nation's hope. It is the greatest guarantee of our Republic, our democracy, our state and our nation's future. Our High Council is moving on with the power of the founding will, the same responsibility, the same enthusiasm and determination today. This roof, also used by the will of the people, is the highest authority to respond to social expectations, to address problems, and to pave the way for our country. It is our common responsibility to establish the necessary grounds for co-existence in the environment of the basic arrangements that we need. It is the responsibility of the people who are the rightful owner of the office that has placed this responsibility upon us. Studies to be carried out on the same ground as compromise, cooperation, and common intelligence will boost confidence in both our Parliament and the political institution and will move our country further. The most efficient and lasting way for a country to acquire a position of respect and power in its own geography and worldwide is to take the maximum advantage of every citizen's opinion without leaving democracy. The exact facility of national sovereignty is also possible under state administration, but only through the common decision-making mechanism produced by democracy. Finally, all the solutions we expect from democracy are possible, but all the problems are solved under this roof. Now, when the door to a new world has been opened, parliaments that have taken man and life into its center can represent the democratic morality, the rule of law, human rights and politics, which is truly and in the sense of the will of the nation. In a literal sense, it is impossible to claim and establish and establish national sovereignty in the sense of pluralistic democracy, freedom of thought, freedom of religion and conscience and freedom of enterprise, with a national will that has not been able to absorb rights and freedoms into universal dimensions. That's why we have to improve the quality of today's democracy at all costs. The only way to do that is to return to the reinforced parliamentary system. The power of a parliament depends on the presence and effectiveness of the representatives and activities of the nation, who have not given up defending their citizens' rights and laws, who have never compromised the struggle for democracy. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are absolute authority for the legislature of our House, which has guided the fate of our country for a hundred years since it was founded. There is no other force that can limit, prevent, or limit this power used in our nation's name, and it will never, ever be acceptable to the floor. The architect of our Republic, our founding leader, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, expressed the importance of the nation's security at the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on November 1, 1930, with the words of my friends, the Grand National Assembly, which has the only authority and power in the country's destiny, is the greatest guarantee of the country's domestic and external security. Major national problems have so far been resolved only in the Grand National Assembly. In the future, there will be certain measures only from there. Turkish Nation's love and devotion has always been directed towards the Grand National Assembly and will always turn there. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are being pushed away from the ground of democracy as Parliament's powers are restricted, and that brings a number of problems to our country, from nation's will to justice, from justice to economy. Today, Parliament is requested to be restored to a parliament that has been stripped of its powers, disabled and disabled. With the parliamentary system shut down, it is impossible to account for public participation, let alone the will of the nation, even constitutional institutions; efforts to exclude the opposition are increasing day by day. Instead of dismantling the powers of our Parliament, which determines the fate of the nation for the future of our country, and celebrates its 100th century, we must make our Assembly stronger and more competent than ever, with our savings and experience from a hundred and forty-three years of Parliament tradition. Today, however, the common mind and the common mind of the nation and the state is discrediting our Parliament, which we do not know the number of, and is immediately put into practice, and it also harms our democracy because there is no control or accountability. In short, the new system does not have the control and balance system, as in the parliamentary system. Even under the most difficult conditions in the past, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has done its duty to oversee the government, and no one has ever stood on the stand and asked, "Why did you give these questions? Why did you ask these questions??" Why did you ask these questions? Because lawmakers have given Parliament dignity by doing their audit duties over the government; it has never been a problem for lawmakers to use their control powers through question proposals and geneors. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, since our geography has become more dangerous than ever, it is impossible for anyone to rule any country, especially a country surrounded by problems such as Turkey. (APPLAUSE) As Mr. Coral Akshener, the head of the presidential government, who has removed the nation from its state, weakened our Parliament, must immediately be abandoned from the government system; it must quickly return to the strengthened parliamentary system. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] It must not be forgotten that our savings and ability to build the great Turkey are in our thousand-year-old state tradition and in our savings of a hundred and forty-three years of parliament. Our national security, our trust in our past, our legacy to our future. Happy National Sovereignty and Children's Day on April 23. I salute the great Parliament and our nation, whose 100th year we proudly and proudly celebrate.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0016par0167	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Now, it belongs to the Turkish Workers' Party' Party's President and İstanbul MP Mr. Erkan Bashaş. Here you go, Mr. Head.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0017par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. I respectfully greet the General Assembly and all of our citizens who have been watching us at the beginning of the screens, working hard, living in the sweat of their hearts, celebrating the 100th anniversary of the Great National Assembly of Turkey's Labour Party, which represents the collective struggle against imperial occupation and palace rule. Dear friends, every time I come to this bench, I'm going to start with something I want to say, but I can't say because of the time limit, so I'm going to start by protesting that our time is short again. What I've always wanted to say was, look, behind this wall, there's this huge, unconditional nation, and it says, "Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go." At least let's talk about this article in our 100th year celebration and discuss it. As we speak under this article today, we have to start by saying that the situation in Turkey is not as expressed there as it is today. Today there is a court regime in Turkey. The rule of the court's regime belongs to the only man who doesn't dare come out of his palace and come here even today. (Applause from the ranks of CHP) Today's domination is in the five-point contractor gang, where you are campaigning to protect the interests of the worker Hassan, who continued to work in construction for a quarter of a salary even in the epidemic and lost his life. It belongs to the bosses of the minimum wage, nurses, nurses, doctors, who continue to clean hospitals with a single mask for 14 hours a day. (Applause from CHP and HDP rows) Today, the traitor who dared to kick the mining family with power from the palace, not the miner who died under the cave-in, even in the days of the plague, who had taken care of the ambulance as a state property and not soiled it with his boot. (Applause from CHP and HDP rows) Sovereignty is dominated by newspaper bosses who write shameless news in Turkey, not by agricultural workers who risk their health for a salary in tents without water or sewers. The authority of a bureaucrat who calls a citizen "I'm hungry." Your order will kill me. The control of those who have detained the truck driver. Dominating mobster scraps, gangbangers that you got out of prison. These are control over elected lawmakers when they get out of prison, and those who sentence mayors to prison. Dear friends of my influence, the sovereignty of the court regime, not of the working people on the edge of poverty, whose number is 70 million, but of the parasites who have reached a trillion-dollar fortune from the back of the people, a handful of parasites are your bosses. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, today is a children's holiday. Let's just say it's a holiday our kids can't have. In the country where there are 20 million children, 750,000 workers work, in fact 2 million workers work, children work. What are these child laborers doing? When you say, "If you're a worker, come out to the workshop, six workshops, factory, field, industry, continue to move on." Shouldn't we be asking what happens when these kids grow up? What kind of future do we offer our children? We offer a future between 15 and 24 years of age, where one of the four young ones is unemployed, not in education or in work. Those who continue to study, if they're lucky, are able to go to colleges if their parents have money, and if they don't have money, the only thing they can do is go to imam-hats because in your transference, a system has been created that has changed the education system 16 times in 18 years. What's that got to do with our kids? In the first question, I said, "Is authority really your people?" The second question is, "What will the children celebrate in these circumstances?" (Happy is the day of our children's holiday gift, and let us promise them a future where they will enjoy their childhood as a holiday. Dear friends, as I finish my words, I speak to the Regents of power: If the sovereignty is your people, it must rise up for the people who cast down our hands and lift us up, and not for the people, and not for the direction from the palace. If the sovereignty is your people, the workers, the workers have to go out on the street, and even at curfew, Parliament cannot take a vacation while it continues to run factories on special leave. It is the duty of the people to protect their people, to stand before the people's struggle. Dear citizens, April 23 is not just a day of celebration, it is a day of more struggle than April 23rd. This place, whose name is the Messiah, unfortunately, has been stripped of almost all its powers, is part of the struggle of the people. We are here to shout out the problems of the people, to strengthen the struggle of the people. We know that in order to deserve to celebrate the 100th year, sovereignty must be taken from the palace and given back into the hands of the people. Today is April 23, 2020, and this is our 100th year promise to our people. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Brothers and sisters, we will surely win the rule of the working people. I promise, children, don't look at those who have seen too much of a holiday day, we're fighting for you, and the world will have children, tomorrow will have children, tomorrow will have struggles, tomorrow will be ours.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0018par0182	Mr. President, Mr. Erkan knows why the Prime Minister is talking like this, we understand, and we don't answer.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0019par0184	Thank you, Mr. Chief, Mr. Botanci. It now belongs to the Democratic Party's President and Afyonkarahisar MP Mr. Gültekin Uysal. Here you go, Mr. Unisal.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0020par0188	My dear nation, the precious General Assembly, today is the 100th anniversary of an exceptional day, except for the course of history. On the other hand, we need to understand the historic day of one century ago, especially Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and those who have put their will with him, as members of a powerful nation. We must also provide the salvation of the nation, the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, the 100th year of this great assembly, who has witnessed it, and on the other hand, to refresh our understanding deeply. On such a day, it is certainly an honor and a pleasure for all of us to be a member of this great House and to witness this day. I wish we could celebrate the 100th anniversary of this great organization, as it is at every anniversary that allows a nation to die in the field, to have its own fate, to have its own destiny, and to have its own future. I hope that we, as a nation, will remember this blessed day, which we have not been able to perform for the cause of the plague, after we have been rid of this disease, we will understand the nature and spirituality of this coven. Today is not the 100th anniversary of a material being, but of a physical nature, not just of an attempt, but of an idea, of a thought, of an ulterior imagination. It's the 100th year of a great nation's greatest work together with the republic, where we've seen the will of the nation, the blood, the soul, the sweat and the freedom of the nation, the people, the people's will, the people's will, the people's will, the people's will, the people's will, and the people's blood, the people's lives, the people's lives, the people's lives, and the people's love of freedom. The 100th year of the existence of a moon star from Anatolia, from Thrace, from the east of the country, from every faith, from every idea, from every age. The will of this holy nation has been given a great message to the world in the squares of battle with the great one, with the demands of the manda and protection of those who have personal ambitions in the court, when they want to be shot at in congress and meetings. This message was that the sovereignty was unconditional and unconditional, and under no circumstances would be shared with anyone. Dear lawmakers, we believe that assets are the spirit of corporations. The spirit of this perfect being is the national sovereignty. As the great writer Ahmet Hamdi Tanpınar said, "There are centuries behind a moment. This is the spirit that has grasped the spirit of time itself in the historical line of development." A statement of the opening speech of St. Ataturk a hundred years ago is important in this regard: the existence of our parliament is established by the dignity and respect of the basis of legitimacy and responsibility. The legitimacy of this House is that founding soul, and its responsibility is to ensure that sovereignty belongs to the nation. Without a doubt, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the heart of the free democratic system. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey guarantees that everything will take place in public, publicly, in front of everyone. Without a doubt, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the custodian of rights and freedoms. In its 100th year, all members present to the opposition of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey have been obliged to claim all rights to the budget as the highest rights-seeking institution for the existence of the Assembly. For that, the founding spirit of a century ago must perform again. Dear General Assembly, precious MPs, I celebrate the 100th anniversary of the opening of our Parliament, the highest representation of the national will, with the belief that the days of our celebration are near, compared with the original quality of our parliament. I present such a great day to our children, the President of the First Assembly, the founder of our republic, the great Ataturk, and his friends of the struggle, along with 115 MPs. We kiss our children on their foreheads with love and hope in these beautiful days, the promise of the happiness of the world, of our republic and of our national sovereignty. As we celebrate the National Sovereignty and Children's Day again on April 23, I also hope that this holy month, which begins tonight, will bring good things, and that the Lord God will unite us in hearts and in prayers, even though we may not come together at the tables because of the plague. I salute the High Council and its precious representatives.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0021par0198	Thank you, Mr. Easy. It is now up to Mr. Mustafa Destici, the chairman of the Grand Unity Party and Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0022par0202	Mr. President, my esteemed MPs, my dear citizens and dear children, I wish to congratulate the 100th year of the establishment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the guarantee of our nation and our future, the children's National Sovereignty and Children's Day on April 23rd, in the light of our nation's future. In addition, I congratulate you on the Ramazan month's blessing on the Turkish nation and the Islamic world, which we have received with grief this year due to the outbreak of Covid-19. Precious lawmakers, we know that the last Ottoman Assembly of Mebusan accepted Misakimilli (; born 28 January 1920) and that decision was declared to the world on February 17, 1920. On this development, the Ottoman states occupied Istanbul on March 16, 1920. They raided a British military council and arrested some MPs including Rauf Bey. The mebus gathered on March 18th, and decided to leave Parliament-i Mebusan indefinitely and meet in Ankara. On 21 April 1927, the Grand National Assembly of Ankara will be opened in Ankara on Friday (April 23rd) after Friday's prayer, with the blessing of Allah, with the signature of Representative Mustafa Kemal Pasha. The flag of Haji Bayram, which was carried in a womb, was placed in front of the congregation. The Grand National Assembly was opened with a ribbon cut by Mustafa Kemal Pasha after a loud prayer of hajji read by Professor Fehmi. The banner of Hajji Bayram was set on the stand, and the Koran and the Beardkeeper were put on the stand. And on the wall of the assembly is the 38th verse of Surah. [[The reading of the 38th verse of Surah.]] ...they discuss their work among themselves. The written tablet was hung. In light of this historical fact, in part of the Grand National Assembly, the continuation of the House of Mebusa and the founder of the state of the Republic of Turkey. Dear MPs, today we celebrate the 100th anniversary of the opening of our Turkish Grand National Assembly with honor and glory. We have a Parliament that rules the struggle of our nation's salvation and existence in the occupied land, who triumphs by clearing every inch of the land from the enemy in the absence of God and the nation. We have an independent, free, modern, powerful state and parliament that builds a society. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey holds a very important and special place in both Turkish history and world history. That's why he's proud of the Turkish National Assembly, who knows what he's accomplished in the past and what he can accomplish in the future. Yeah, we're a little short. As for these shortcomings, I also attribute their system of worship to the Parliament, which we have observed from time to time in our nation, to its love for our nation's past, to its extraordinary power, and to its expectations. It's important that we know what we have, the value of what we have, especially if we don't lose them. Precious MPs, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the mind of the state, the conscience of the nation when necessary, the hand holding the sword, the armor of the nation, the will, is the nation itself. When we remember what we went through from the past to the present, inside and out, everyone who was hostile to the Turkish nation, the Turkish state, has always been the first target of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The first sign that a plot against our nation was planned has always begun with efforts to discredit the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This happened before the republic was formed, as the national struggle continued, as it did in the July 15th betrayal movement. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, the reputation of the House is the nation's. If the People's Assembly is strong, the people will be strong, the state will be strong. In his 100th year, I commemorate the first President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who led our Liberation War, who founded the republic in triumph, with mercy and thanks to the martyrs, the veterans, and the veterans, who led the First Assembly to continue to become a homeland to the Turkish nation of Anatolia. In the name of the Great Unity Party and the Alperans, happy holiday, especially our children, happy state. Surely all authority belongs to God, his will, and his sovereignty, unconditionally. Yours truly.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0023par0214	Thank you, Mr. Destici. On behalf of the Party of Democracy and Atılım, İstanbul MP Mustafa Yeneroğlu belongs to him. Here you are, Mr. Yeneroglu.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0024par0218	Dear President, very dear MPs, very esteemed ministers, very respected citizens who are watching us at the beginning of television, I salute you all on behalf of the DEVA Party in this special session, where we come together to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the opening of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the representative of the nation's will, and to celebrate National Sovereignty and Children's Day. On April 23, 1920, the great House, which we are proud of under its roof, opened with a great sense of responsibility, is the beginning of an exceptional struggle for independence. I remember Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, every member of the First Assembly, and all of our beloved martyrs, who led this battle, which was fought side by side by side by side in the hard days of the nation and the land. Members of parliament, behind the first legislature's bench, their work was with consultation. At the most difficult times of the Salvation War, there could be severe criticism of violations of basic rights and freedoms and the lack of law enforcement. Today, we're in a sad state to connect our mayors with terrorist organizations, who have taken over half our nation's votes, let alone authority. The Parliament of the First Assembly is the seat of discussion and discussion, not the office of approval, stressing the importance of the rule of law rather than the rule of person. The person of the assembly should be respected. Today, there are those who don't even need the House as their approval office. When it is clear that many measures made due to the Coronavirus epidemic limit the basic rights, and it is necessary to lay down a legal basis for these restrictions, how can it be explained that the Council of Genius would not be employed? Let's not forget that legislature is fundamental, non-transmittable, and it can't be cut off in any way. Therefore, I absolutely refuse to interrupt the work of the House. I regret the fact that such important law proposals have been passed through commissions and brought to the General Assembly on the same day, that they have failed the authority to legislature in sacks of law packages, that the laws against the Constitution have been passed through Parliament, that our country has been ruled by decrees and even by generalities recently, and that there has been endless injustices. Dear lawmakers, we must not leave our children with a limping parliament, a limping democracy, where vicious strife prevails over our children. I invite all of our friends, who we served with as MPs today, to think about how we started in the First Assembly a hundred years ago, where we were a hundred years later, what we wanted to leave our children with in the next hundred years, and to put Congress back in the center of the system and fight together for the strengthened parliamentary system. With these feelings, I want to celebrate the feast of everyone, highlight my hope that we will deliver the trust of our founding assembly to our children in the best possible way. Bilvesile, after the talks of the political parties, I also leave it to our nation to shut down the broadcast of the TRT. I also wish that the month of Ramazan, which will begin tonight, will be a blessing for our country, our nation, the Islamic world and humanity. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0025par0229	Thank you, Mr. Yeneroglu. Now, on behalf of the Party of Saadet, it belongs to Mr. Abdulkadir Karaduman. Here you go, Mr. Blackduman.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0026par0233	Mr. President, I salute you all with respect and conversation. Today is April 23, 2020, the 100th anniversary of the opening of our Veteran Assembly, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I hereby congratulate you on behalf of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day Party on April 23, our country and nation. Dear lawmakers, it is the assurance of basic rights and freedoms, born of labour, mutual consent, and due to justice, that are the most basic rights of all our citizens, without the sovereignty of the nation, race, religion and language. When we understand the 100th anniversary of the foundation of the Veteran Assembly, I also want to remind you that the sovereignty of the nation is not to look out for the interests of a particular group, a particular class, those of certain ideology. Therefore, understanding the sovereignty of the nation requires not to view power, majority, privilege, and benefit as a cause of right, but to put justice and justice above all and above all. The sovereignty of one group should not be due to another, if one political party does not have the right to other political parties, or the right to 49. Besides, the sovereignty of one is never justified by 99. After a Friday prayer, their works are in the service of prayer. Our Veteran Assembly, which has been opened to its rule, clearly reveals what its understanding of national sovereignty is. I'd like to put it right here that national sovereignty requires that the will of the nation be fully in power. It should be the priority of our Veteran Assembly in its 100th year to remove the 10 per cent electoral dam, which stands in the way of national will, which poses an obstacle. Today is a day when precious preparation is also a gift of national sovereignty to our children. So I also congratulate all our children on April 23rd. Our children deserve to live in a media, politics, education, social environment, free of violence and evil. As elders, it is our duty to give our children a country where they will look forward to the future with hope. We have to prepare for our children an environment where they won't have to grow up in prisons and when they grow up, they can express their ideas freely. With his education, his economy, his legal system, and our children will not have to dream of being a citizen of another country, we are obliged to leave a legacy to Turkey. Again, in the words of the poet, we are bound to give our children a land, which is blue, green with branches, yellow with fields, the land of birds and flowers. As I end my words, I wish, at the same time, that Ramazan bear, which will begin today, would bring blessings to our country and all the Islamic geography. Thank you all.
tbmm-2020-04-23sit01spe0027par0240	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Blackduman. Members of parliament, talks have been completed to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the National Sovereignty and Children's Day, and to specify the meaning and significance of the day. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Ramadan begins tomorrow. Congratulations on the Ramadan of both our MPs and our beloved nation, the Islamic world. One more thing before we close: tonight, you know, it's 21 o'clock. I repeat and remind you that at the same time from our homes, all of us, as Turkey, we all have the invitation to read our Istrial March. On Wednesday (May 20, 2020), it is now 14 o'clock on Wednesday (May 2020) to discuss audit issues and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, with legal proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
