tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 108th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. I'd like to point out that I'm not going to give more than a minute of additional time during today's talks. Therefore, I ask our dear friends to use the time. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Ankara MP Nevin Taşlıçay, who wants to talk about digital transformation, women and Turkey. Here you go, Mr. Rocky.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I have made a promise to share with you the opportunities for our women in the process of digitalization, which is gaining speed through the corona process, and the thoughts of social media, which have been targeting our women in the first place in the first place, with its long-standing lack of principle and ruthlessness. In addition to all the negatives that have happened, digitization, which has become more noticeable with the corona process, is very important to our women, and unfortunately, it has a lot of threats. But I believe that all threats will be eliminated, and our digital age will be the age of our women. The most important output of the age of communication is that states are constantly interacting with jointed mechanical or organic bonds, making it impossible for us to stay out of and out of invasive transformations in the eyes of states and societies. The way to gain an active power over the world is indisputably proportionate to being in the digital transformation process and directing and directing this transformation. The change and transformation process that we're talking about, although fully involved in our lives in technical terms, is the most important factor that should not be overlooked, is that these developments are happening and progressing on a human basis. Therefore, the success of the healthy implementation of the mescurial system, further development, integration into state and community life will undoubtedly be possible in the quality of the countries' human resources. At this point, the research and debate on the economy, which has been seen as the main trigger of development and power from the past to today. The idea of economic development that we're trying to provide and sustain during the Republic period clearly shows us that without women, sustainable economic development and social transformation are not possible. The sensitivity at the point of resolving the problems we're talking about will both facilitate the solution to our current economic and social problems, and will help us to become the leading country of change and transformation by taking the maximum advantage of the opportunities offered by the digital world. We believe that if we show enough effort and sensitivity on our part, the women of Turkey will have tomorrows in Turkey. Digitalisation and the progress of technology bring with it numerous innovative and dynamic opportunities for economic strengthening of women. In terms of balancing the balance of gender equality between financial markets, labour markets and entrepreneurship, digitalisation has an irrefutable contribution. Today, digital platforms bring many opportunities for women in the range of communication, cheap cost, two-way communication, the rapid updating of sharing, and the access to large masses. However, these opportunities bring to our attention another level daily, due to another aspect of social media, chaoticness and unrestrictedness. Our women, our children, and our family institution are at stake. Indecency, lack of principle, has been a routine that social media has imposed from seven to seventy. This area, where human rights have been violated, abuse of women has been routine, anti-government is systematic, family and youth are targeted directly, has been a common problem for every part of society. Promotion of drugs on social media is now ordinary. It is clear that we will all drown together in this bottomless well, if no measures are taken. The online and off-line control of social media platforms will not restrict freedoms, but it will mean controlling every area of law. Otherwise, it would be enough to darken our future, where the person, the person, and all human values are being targeted, and all terrorist organizations are running around. By Beka, let it not be forgotten that we mean not only our territorial integrity, but our traditions and customs, all the institutions of our civilization, and the universal ambitions of the Turkish nation. Freedom isn't about slandering people, it's about standing up for what you're saying. What needs to be done should not be considered a ban, but should be considered a surrender of basic rights.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0003par0018	Here, finish up, Mr. Stonedchay.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0002par0019	When I said one last word, one minute, I had to speak very quickly, and I apologize again. The leader states that I believe that the key to our goal, Turkey, will appear in our palms at the time when we have fulfilled it properly, wishing our citizens mercy, condolences to their relatives, greetings to all the victims of social media, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0003par0022	The second off-the-book statement belongs to Yalova MP Özcan Özcan, who wants to talk about the Yalova farm. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0004par0026	Mr. President, I have taken a stand outside the agenda of the nation's garden on Yalova Millet Farm. I salute the High Council. Great states become great states by taking possession of their national values, heroes, founders, and keeping their works and names alive. There's nothing politics can do to our country, to our nation, to make their national heroes worthless. With your power, you have erased the name of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the commander-in-chief of our national struggle, the founder of our country, from the stadiums; you have erased the names of his fellow combatants; lastly, you have erased the name of Nuri Pakdil. You have written the name of Colonel Reshat Çiltepe from the school in Mamak. Mustafa Necati is our Minister of National Education, who was sobbing when he died at a young age. You may see Nuri Pakdil, close to your world of thought, you may want to live in a piece, but it is disrespectful to Mustafa Necati, our national struggle hero, Mustafa Necati, to call Mustafa Necati's house that name. Press the money, change the sign with his understanding of what national and native understanding would be able to erase the name of Colonel Reşat Çitiltepe, who committed suicide because he failed to fulfill his duty to Mustafa Kemal Ataturk? You're paying off our heroes by erasing their names? Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, a process similar to these examples is also happening in Yalova. Yalova Ataturk, my city, is the summer capital of the republic. The National Farm, which Ataturk bought with his own money and donated to the treasure, is now wanted to build a national garden. In 1929, when Ataturk came to Jalova, he bought two farms with his money. The Axeman farm in the west is the Nation Farm in the east. The Nation's Farm was designed to teach our farmers to grow, grow, care, and processing techniques by producing new species and species on garden plants, under the direction of Ataturk. New fruits, vegetables and species are being produced and developed at the National Farm. The origins of Jalova's cutting flower and ornamental plants were also laid in those years. In 1961, the National Farm continued its activities as the Yalova Ataturk Garden Institute of Central Research to work on the growth, conservation and processing of fruit, vegetables and ornaments. The Institute is the centre of Turkey's table grape research. Ten new types of grapes were conducted here. One of these species is an ancestor, the other is a Yalova pearl. Another study of kiwi is the study of the land of the nation's garden that is intended to be built. This land has made Yalova the leader of our country's kiwi production. The first kiwi garden of kiwi research in Turkey is here and continues to produce. You want to build a public garden, a park where you can sleep and roll around in what your president calls it. By zoning agricultural land, you have made Turkey a country that imports agricultural products and pays billions of dollars to foreign farmers. You can find other suitable places in Yalova to build a nation's garden, but you have a different problem. You want to put a nation's garden on the inheritance of Ataturk, and the works of Ataturk, and the traces of them. I suggest you turn around while the road is close. This is first-class farmland. In 1989, this land was intended to be used for other purposes, and the issue was brought to trial. State's office six. His office has decided that this land is of public interest to stay at the Research Institute. This decision is a precedent for the attempt to build a nation's garden. In violation of the Earth Protection Act, you're opening first-class farmland to non-profit use. This land, which Mustafa Kemal Ataturk gave to the nation for the development of Turkish agriculture, is an area of agricultural research development. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0005par0037	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0004par0038	The use of this place for non-foreign purposes, turning it into a national garden, desecration of the heritage of Ataturk, betrayal of Jalova, Turkey, and Turkish agriculture. Don't do this to Yalova, Turkish agriculture. If you're going to make a public garden to deliver cakes, lie down and roll around, do it again, but do it somewhere else. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0005par0041	The third unscheduled statement belongs to Erzincan MP Sulejman Karaman, who asked to be mentioned as the 27th anniversary of the terrorist organization's massacre in Erzincan Kemaliye. Here you go, Mr. Karaman.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0006par0045	Mr. President, dear members of our Veteran Assembly, I salute you all with my sincerest feelings. I have received a pledge on the 27th anniversary of our deep pain, our unrelenting pain, the massacre of the Archcaples. I ask all our martyrs for the grace of God. Honourable lawmakers, as every year, we were in the Prime Minister's office on the 5th of July. My friend Erzincan MP Mr. Burhan Çakır, Erzincan Governor, our President of Erzincan, the Honourable MPs of CHP, our president of Cem Foundation, our mayors, our mayors, our friends from the surrounding counties, our lives from the capitals and the surrounding villages who came to share our pain, we were all present with the Kurds. After 27 years with the head of the Chaplains Village Mayor Ali Akarpınar, the President of the Chaplains Village Beautification and Development Association and the villagers, who survived the massacre and were wounded, they lived every moment of that day with the same pain, with the same shock and terror. They were always telling us not to forget and forget this pain for our unity, and they were right. After the ceremony, we went to the Prelates Martyrship. As I visited each grave, my brothers, who had taken the word from each other, and described it with excitement and pain: "They burned this person. We could never find this person's body. This was my father. This was very young. This was the mother and son together. They were drowning in tears. Believe me, I couldn't help but feel the pain. Don't worry, brothers. 83 million is with you and with you. All those who were martyred were innocent, they had no sin, and 33 were the valiant sons of Erzincan. Dear lawmakers are the lowest form of terrorism, national unity, and the lowest way to disrupt our brotherhood. Twenty-seven years ago in Erzincan, terror appeared with its most treacherous face. The game, held on July 2nd in Sivas, continued three days later with the massacre of the High Priests. The pain of the massacre of menfur in the village of Bashabaşlar is still in our hearts on 5 July 1993 in the District of Kemaliye, Erzincan Province, Turkey. The divisive and dark centers have killed 33 of our innocent citizens during the evening prayer, and the consciences, along with this massacre, have suffered a profound wound. The separatists, whose purpose is to refer to our country's unity and its resilience, have calculated that with such a terrible attack, they will intimidate and intimidate our beloved nation, but they were wrong. It must be well known that the yeast of this land is brotherhood. Our flag, which takes its color from the blood of our martyrs, will fly forever, and 83 million of our citizens in the shadow of the moon will live in peace, peace and quiet. Our government has entered the dens of those who have committed this massacre today and struck these separatists with the most violent blow in history abroad and abroad. Our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, with a strategy determined by our president, praise be to Allah, the back of terror has been broken. Again, the disgrace of the low terrorist organization that abused our people as the rights of the people of the region were protected under the brotherhood's law that our President pointed out. Dear MPs are Erzincan, the city of tolerance and brotherhood of Anatolia, the roof of every color and every profession's brotherhood. Yesterday, those who martyred 33 of our countrymen with dark plans, those who wanted to create religious, cultural and social fault lines on Turkey, were silenced, and will come back after that. Erzincan is the land of martyrs, Erzincan is the land of veterans, Erzincan is the tent of heroes, Erzincan is the altar of hearts beating with love for the country. I'd like to extend a special thank you to our last Prime Minister, Mr. Buli Yıldırım Sir. With great precision, they have always been sensitive to the massacre of the Prelates in the land where they grew up. That day's deep sorrow and anguish reminded Turkey of one more time each year and respected the saints' souls of our martyrs. He made an effort to make sure that there would be no more hugging language and great suffering, and he continues his efforts. I thank them for the Erzincans. Our precious lawmakers, the nation of Necip, will stand with the spiritual power of our martyrs who are immortalized in our hearts, more upright and powerful in the face of traitors, separatists, and murderers.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0007par0054	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0006par0055	Terror and its supporters will never achieve their goal in this land. Those who want to violate our thousand-year-old brotherhood are doomed to fail, no matter what they do, no matter what vile methods they resort to. For the martyrs you see here, I'd like to end my words with a mourning for the High Priests: you were the fire in us for many years / to whom it was your hurt, brother / Black is ours to dress, wife / chiefs my smoking smoke / stand tall in the flames. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0007par0058	Congressmans, now, I'm going to make a promise to the 15 MPs who have entered the system. Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0008par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable lawmakers, my constituency district, Alexei, will be one of the first cities to come to mind in health tourism with the six hospital hospitals, which are almost finished and health investments. The city hospital, which will provide health services for the people of the region during the possible Istanbul earthquake, will be completed in September, hopefully, by the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, in order for our citizens to reach the Ankara-Izmit-Candara state territorial road and city centre. I'd like to thank our Ministry for the construction of the tram line that our Metropolitan City City has been building. I thank all the authorities, especially Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has decided that these investments should be made to be delivered to Kobeeli, and to the service of our people, and to the good of our region, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0007par0064	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0009par0066	Mr. President, thank you. The normalization process, which began on July 1st, unfortunately, did not normalize for the citizens. As of March, the debt of non-electric and natural gas-free citizens, whose bills have been transferred, began to collect. 21 power distribution companies and 72 gas distribution companies will cut off the public's electricity and natural gas if they don't collect. In 2018 and 2019, there were over 10 million subscribers who had been cut off at least once because they were unable to pay their debt to electricity and natural gas. The number does not include debts in the epidemic process. That's why we're warning power from here, that power is responsible for the casualties. An arrangement that will delay our citizens' debts for at least a year without interest and ensure that the debt will be paid in at least 12 equal terms must be made immediately.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0007par0068	Mr. Yilmakaya...
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0010par0070	Mr. President, the tourism industry is in bad shape. The industry without chimneys is at an end because of the outbreak of the tourism industry Covid-19. When the European Union declared our country among countries with bans on travel, the sector became more and more bankrupt. In addition, 1 million unemployed will be exposed, unemployment will increase. On top of that, the conflict and conflict between the Minister of Tourism and the president of the TURSA are negatively affecting tourists who are already struggling. These two old friends are now one of the most talked-about issues in the tourism community, their opposite attitude. From drafting and auditing the document cycles of tourism agencies to work on personnel autonomy rights, everything has been held by the Minister of Tourism and has not been signed by tourism agencies. Mr. Minister and the president of the TÜRSAB have to put aside their hostility and focus on the problems of the bankrupt tourism sector, first priority, or the tourism sector is dying. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0011par0075	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0012par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. My call will be to our Minister of Agriculture. For about a month and a half, the grape harvest has begun in Çukurova, and the shipment of grapes from Çukurova is being delivered to different parts of Turkey and around the world. However, the price of grapes has not yet been announced. I demand that the base price for the grape sum be announced immediately and the manufacturer not to be crushed by the broker, and in the process, by the end of the crop, the payment of electricity and water will be postponed. Debts to the Agriculture Bank and Agriculture Loan have been postponed as of May-June. However, debts in July-agustos must also be postponed because the farmer hasn't sold his crop yet, he hasn't received his money; there's no way he can pay for it. I demand that our government extend its period of May-June months, and make sure that the months of July-agustos include a delay in debt, and respect.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0013par0080	Mr. Kemalbay Pekyügü...
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0014par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. In the village of Kirazlıyayla, Yenişehir district of Burma, the mining company is cutting down trees, desecrating the trees, polluting the waters, taking away the village's livelihoods. Last night, peasant women were taken into custody for defending their living spaces, and today they were released on probation. In the same way, the members of Femin Amfi and Kırkyama Women's Solidarity, who acted today to protest the statements of the government's spokesman on the Istanbul Convention and defend women's right to live, were also detained in police violence. Police condemn the violence of women defending their lives, their land, their gains, the right to the Istanbul Convention, and I would like to express here the immediate release of those taken into custody.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0015par0085	Mr. Özer...
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0016par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. The Maxx Royal Belt Resort Hotel in Kirish Bay, Antalya province, owned by Culture and Tourism Minister Mehmet Nuri Ersoy, has declared that the white beach is made of calcium or marble powder. According to the statement of the hotel business, which immediately complained to the prosecution about whether these sands were brought from Lake Salda, these are from a company in Niğde every year. Who knows how many tons of this stuff have been spilled on the public beach, what has the sea floor become? The marble dust from the beach to the sea is harmful to human and environmental health, causing pollution of the sea and even coastal erosion. So, what word, what job can the Minister say, in his own hotel, that defies people and the environment? We invite the Minister of the Hotel to resign, the Minister of Environment and Internal Affairs to make arrangements for the hotel. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0017par0091	Mr. Altaca Kayışoğlu...
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0018par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. The Bursa Ataturk Sports Palace, which is thought to be destroyed for adding to the nation's garden, is one of the city's two Olympic halls, along with the Lotus Tofash Gym. In the event of the destruction of the hall, the four teams of the Burman basketball leagues in Turkey, Tofash, Bursaspor, Final Sports, Legatespor, will be negatively affected. Tofaş and Bursaspor will also represent the leagues as well as the European Cups this year. Since there are no other halls of FIBA criteria in Burma, the club will have to play in provinces such as Eskişehir or Balıkesir if the hall in Lotus is disabled for any reason. Again, the final sports and paraderspor who play the league games in this hall will be without the hall before the new season. Such a situation will be a disgrace and a disgrace to Turkey, not just to Bursa. Their common desire is to keep the Ataturk Sports Palace in place, and to destroy it and bring it into the nation's garden would be treason against the Lord. It's a public garden...
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0019par0097	Mr. Nicemansur...
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0020par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, the olive oil from Afrin, has once again begun to victimize the local oil producer. Although the warnings I've made over the past year have taken several measures regarding the Afrin olive oil, the opportunists are not idle. I'm getting a lot of complaints and reports that these opportunists are now bringing oil from Afrin with various numbers into the domestic market. I say to the authorities: To avoid giving the opportunists a pass, one, in order not to destroy the local manufacturer, one, in order to bring olive oils from Afrin, let them be required to specify their acid values and qualifications, two; these fats are to be sent directly to the free zone because they are already to be brought with export records. I expect this on behalf of Hatayli and all the local oil producers and traders as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0021par0102	Mr. Axeman...
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0022par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. Forty-two years ago, Rifat Ilgaz wrote: He's got his pants on, his back's all moldy, The head should double-yellow. ♪ Get your sweat around you like a eraser ♪ Delete this black text from his forehead You should write your own writing! In the 27th year of his departure, I honor, with respect, and with love, and with love, and gratitude, the synth of Turkish literature, as majestic as Mount Ilgaz, as profound and as profound as the Black Sea, as master writer, poet, teacher, and fellowman.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0023par0113	Mr. Ceylan...
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0024par0115	Mr. President, we have learned with great regret that 500 hectares of pine forest were incinerated in the fire in the villages of Ilibolu, Ilgardere and Eceabat. It is the public's expectation that the cause of the fire should be identified immediately after the cooling efforts, and that the most severe criminal sanctions on those responsible will be carried out. Mr. Pakdemirli's efforts to move to the disaster zone and intervene in the fire with a large number of tools are satisfactory, but the helicopters do not have a night vision device, so they can't be used after dark. In Kumköy, about 3,500 per grains of wheat and 500 per grain olives burned, 250 per grains of wheat and barley in the village of Yalova, and some 70 grains of wheat and barley in the village of Ilgardere. These villages must be declared a disaster zone immediately and paid for by the state. The fact that there was no loss of life is the only consolation of this disaster. I wish you well.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0023par0117	Mr. Sower...
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0025par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. On the 27th anniversary of the July 2nd of Sivas Madimamak and the July 5th of the massacre of Erzincan Prime Ministers, we feel the pain of those who lost their lives in our hearts, and I ask God's mercy for those who lost their lives. Sivas is the city of peace and brotherhood. Sivas is the land of brave men who hosted the republic for a hundred and eight days. We've never broken up as Alevi-Sunni, we're flesh and nails, and we won't be separated. Sivas is not the perpetrator of these events, he's the victim. We will never allow those who want to cast a shadow on our Sultan, Sivas, where the man is blended with the dark games of unclean hands and unclean thoughts. He says leave Sivas and the Sivasite alone now, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0026par0124	Mr. Aydemir...
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0027par0126	The blessings that should be ours only come to us when we are old enough to enjoy them, says a wise man. This is true of societies as well as for individuals. There's a lot of examples, for example, of nature's tourism, geothermal concept hudayinabit, God-given blessings. We know from Erzurum, the Ilıca neighborhood of Aziziye district is a unique address in this area, again Payin, so is our Bridgeköy district; there are tens of thousands of them headed for health reasons. Geothermal opportunities have other benefits that cannot be counted. Our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources is doing special work on it. Expectations are very real, such as the heating of highways, bridges, airport runways. It's a serious projection, especially for cold addresses like Erzurum. Our wish is that he finds life immediately. I respect all of you.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0026par0128	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0028par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. If you don't burn the heart to the sun / A match burns a forest, it's loose The causes of forest fires are neglect and carelessness, fire in the forest, fire in the forest, fire in the forest without putting out fire without putting out fire without putting out fire, fire in the forest to hide illegal work done in the forest or in the nearby fields, fire in the forest, fire in the forest for light, fire in the forest, children playing with fire in the forest, intended forest fires, burning the forest to expand fields or grasslands, fire in order to hide the illegal work done in the forest, or to sabotage something else, fire in order to sabotage fire, wild animals. The biodiversity of forest fires is severely damaged, and the habitats of living creatures in the forests are destroyed.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0029par0135	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0030par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. In Niğde, fertile farmland is collected by companies from outside Nügde or foreign companies. The farmer has to work on his own land. This time, there has been a serious reaction to the tendering of the land of national real estate, which farmers have been planting for years, and the tendering of companies outside of the intended farmers. As part of the tender, the tender has been cancelled for now as soon as the town of Konakak farmers gather in front of the IRS and protest the situation. The farmer's righteous demand is that the treasures they've planted over the years be rented to them. In Niğde, the problems experienced by farmers have been added this time to the danger of being left without land. The farmer rightly expects priority to produce bread by renting his land from the treasury. In difficult circumstances, power must cease to be unfair to farmers and other local farmers in the town of Konakak, who are after their bread. We're also getting a lot of complaints about the collection process.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0029par0140	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0031par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. Many of our retired citizens have to work because of AKP's economic policies that make the world jealous. These citizens have not been able to go out during the pandemic, so they haven't been able to work, most of them are considered free-of-charge. Our citizens, who have been cut off from their pensions because of their work, have not been paid by the government in the same way as short labour grants. Many of our citizens, who work hard, who have to work, who are over 65 years old, need to be given the support they deserve. Social security cuts are to be terminated because they appear to be working, and arrangements must be made to benefit from short work grants. I would like to address the Minister of Family, Labor and Social Services: This is the end of the victims of our citizens. You don't serve in Norway; pensioners live under the age of starvation, and they have to work to feed themselves. No pensioner's working out of pleasure.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0032par0145	Now, I'm going to make a promise to the Deputy Directors of the Group who are demanding word. Mr. Dervisoglu...
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0033par0148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. Two days ago, we realized the 27th anniversary of the massacre of the Tebabans in Kemaliye district of Erzincan Province. Once again, I remember the 33 martyrs who fell into the black bosom of the earth in the chieftains. On this occasion, once again, I curse the traitorous terrorist organization Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) with hatred. May the good Lord never show our nation such suffering again. May the souls of all our martyrs, standing firm in the face of terror, rest in heaven. Two days ago, on July 5th, it was the 11th anniversary of the bloody intervention of Chinese security forces and armed paramilis in Urumchi, the capital of East Turkistan. According to the exiled Eastern Turkish National Assembly, in July 2009, thousands of Uygurs were killed within three days, while 197 were martyred according to the Chinese official authorities. 11 years ago in the Urumchi massacre, I cherish our family members, bow to the memory of the saints. I believe that the account of years of persecution in the Turkish home of our Uygur brothers and sisters in East Turkistan will one day be asked. There has been a fire in Gallibolu and Eceabat districts in the forest area near Ilgarde and Yalova villages for hours, which has not yet been determined.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0034par0154	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0033par0155	It was announced by the Minister of Agriculture during the morning that the fire, which grew quickly under the wind and was seen from the centre of Çanakkale and most of the rift, was under control. I congratulate all the staff who participate in the work for their intense effort, and we regret to learn that a field approaching 450 hectares has burned down. We ask the government to relieve the victims of burning olive groves, which are the livelihood of the villagers. We're going to follow up on the fact that we're going to look into it and find out if it's a terrorist connection, and we're going to look at the results together. And I salute the General Assembly, sir, that the presidential election we're about to make brings good things to our country.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0034par0157	Yes, Mr. Erkan.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0035par0159	Thank you, Mr. President. Reverend MPs, on July 5, 1993 Erzincan Prime Minister, have blessed 33 of our citizens who were killed by the low attack of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and I curse the terrorist organization Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and ask for mercy on all of our martyrs. Mr. President, 7 of our citizens were killed and 126 of our citizens were injured in an explosion at a fireworks factory in Sakarya, Çandek district of Sakarya province on July 3rd. I offer God's mercy to the people who have lost their lives, my condolences to their relatives, our beloved nation. The release of 121 of 126 wounded citizens from the hospitals was a comforting development for all of us. I wish our continued treatments to our citizens. Shortly after the explosion occurred, several search and rescue teams, particularly AFAD, IMKE, JAK, conducted efforts to rescue the wounded. On the other hand, our state officials and members of the National Movement Party Group, our Deputy Chair of Sakarya MP, Mr. Muhammad Levent Bulbül, have been on the side of our citizens by arriving at the scene of the crime. We know that while forensic investigation into the incident is being carried out by authorities, a study has been carried out by the relevant ministries to repair the damage, to compensate for the financial and spiritual damage. In previous years, 17 August 2009, 29 September 2009, 11 February 2011, 14 December 2014 and 27 January 2018 are expected to assess the explosions at the same factory as well as to improve and oversee the quality of the workplace.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0036par0164	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0035par0165	I hope that similar disasters will never happen again, and I salute the General Assembly. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0036par0167	Thank you. Mr. Hakkı Saruhan, please.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0037par0170	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, it has been twenty-seven years since the massacre of the Prime Ministers on July 5, 1993. We feel the pain of 33 villagers who were slaughtered in the village of the Prime Minister, and today we have the demand of justice for society. To build a lasting social peace, we think it's very important that the massacre of the chieftains be illuminated, but unresolved, and the demand for justice be rewarded. I'm going to show you two pictures now, which we've already brought up. Now, these photos are from Hasankeyf. One is the old Hasankeyf, historical Hasankeyf. One of them is Hasankeyf, the one that's in the concrete today, and he's underwater. By the 19th century, an ancient city of Hasankeyf, one of the largest settlements in the region, has been flooded for twelve thousand years, and not as the government claims, but as a socioeconomic project has actually eliminated Hasankeyf. So far, more than 70 villages, 199 settlements and farmlands have been flooded, more than 80,000 people have migrated, and there has been serious social and economic destruction. It's a twelve thousand years of history, dozens of civilisations, and the eradicated memory of humanity itself. It's a very severe cultural genocide, a massive attack on all human memories, values, cultures. Once again, we criticize those who have done this to Hasankeyf, and we say that history will never forgive that. Now, Congressmans, according to a data report in June, the total amount in citizens' currency accounts increased by 575 million dollars compared to the previous week on June 26th.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0038par0177	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0037par0178	The total currency deposit in Turkey thus rose to 202 billion $213 million. The increase in that June 26th week was due to $2273 million from individual accounts and $302 million from corporate accounts. Now, the process that we call a kind of insulation continues. I wonder why. Why couldn't this process just stop? Because in this country, citizens' distrust of the economy, their distrust of the implementation of political power and economic policies has never been over, but this distrust is growing. Look, last week in my speech, I made statements about foreign trade data again, cross-referenced the latest data. The Treasury and Finance Minister made a statement and said: "The rate of exporting has risen to 86.2%.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0039par0182	Here, pick it up, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0037par0183	So if we look at the data here, what we need to talk about is the ratio of the external trade deficit, which is 17.4%. Now, as the Treasury and Finance Minister say, if everything is in balance, why does the Treasury and the Treasury feel the need to be in debt? Why do you keep looking for debt through the Entity Fund? Why are subsidiary firms always funded through the Central Bank? Now, as we look at it, more than 5,000 products have been taxed with 4 additional customs tax increases since April 18, 2020, and we're still facing a situation that the government can't manage in terms of foreign trade deficits. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm picking it up.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0040par0188	Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0037par0189	According to foreign trade data, exports dropped 40.9% in May 2020 compared to the same month of the previous year, while imports declined 27.8%. So in May, the foreign trade deficit increased by 102.7 per cent, raising from $1 billion to 687 million to $3 billion,420 million; that's the case. So there's no such thing as a pink picture, everything balances out. There's absolutely no such thing as a pink picture. Look, what kind of understanding is that? You know how the president of the Justice and Development Party has always said that with a great invention, the cause of interest is inflation. If interest falls, inflation falls. We looked at the last three months, the interest rate was 8,77 points in April, 8.25 points in May, 7.66 points in June, and interest rates have continued to drop. So, what's inflation?
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0040par0192	Mr. Oluç, we'll have a long talk tomorrow. Let's move on to the election of Speaker.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0037par0194	I'm finishing, my last sentence.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0040par0195	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0037par0196	Thank you. Inflation was 10,94 points in April, and these are hormone-based TİK data - 11.39 points in May, 12.62 points in June. So it's the opposite of what the president of the Justice and Development Party said. The cause of interest is the result of inflation. The claim is completely broken. Now, in fact, an economic policy based on that understanding brings budget deficits, treasury deficits to record levels. The foreign trade gaps are taking its toll. Let's remind the ruling party once again. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0041par0199	Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0042par0201	Mr. President, my fellow public defenders, I salute you all. We've brought it up over and over again, four years after the July 15 coup attempt, we've stated that the money collected on the relatives of the deceased was $309 million, and we were wrong. This money is supposed to be worth 600 million liras today, but it seems to have reduced $38,000 in seven months in response to Murat Emir. While the martyrs await this money, we strongly condemn the power that still insists on not giving it to them in the pandemic process. An investigation has been launched against our July 15th gas, Ufuk Yün, who wants to seek the law of these brothers. Since when has the Republic of Turkey's state come to the point of suing its veteran for seeking law? The state of the Republic of Turkey owes its existence to its martyrs and veterans. Therefore, the government must have common sense, not in the eyes of the judge, but in the conscience, to give them their dues, and to send them the money that the nation has given them, as soon as possible. Dear friends, the amendment to the Law of Law is not a need, but a result of ambition and strife. Because there is clearly no arrangement here that will improve the practice of law or bring about justice; an arrangement that will make the bar political. This coming arrangement is the result of the ambition and quarrel of the court's regime.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0043par0205	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0042par0206	This law is a step towards betraying the state of the Republic of Turkey, dividing and disintegrating the country. My dear brothers, I am the Clumsy MP. Sakarya is one of the most beautiful cities in this country, even the world. However, the accidents that occurred in Sakarya are not one, not two, not three. How did the mayors of the same factory allow this license to be established without exception? How could he let our brothers die? How is it that the distances in this factory are supposed to be at least 50 meters, and the Home Secretary's statement that all inspections have been made, but it's allowed to be 20 meters and adjacent order?
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0043par0209	Pack it up, Mr. Ozkoç.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0042par0210	How is there a risk that there's more than enough stock to be kept there and that they'll be heated and that they'll explode? For four days, our workers, our foremans, for five days, these materials will explode. How did no one listen to this? The President of the Republic of Turkey must act as President, not as AKP President. How did the president stand behind him by looking for this person, who was the district manager and owner of this factory, when the workers' funeral was there, when there were so many wounded? What conscience is it that this factory is related toISIAAD, and the food that the president of MISIAD has gathered in Sakarya, as the funerals are still there?
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0043par0213	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0042par0214	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Sakarya, indeed, have removed their funerals, covered the wounded, but could not heal his conscience. Therefore, this hand in Sakarya should be distinguished from the victims of the accident. The mubbibbis must be punished with the most severe punishment. The owner of this business is suing his clients. There may be lawyers behind him, behind him, but behind our nation, their deputy, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and us, must be done. I give you my regards.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0043par0217	Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0044par0219	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today, our Veteran Assembly has an important agenda. We will hold the election of the second half of the 27th term, the Speaker of Parliament and the Council. I hope that there will be no problem, no harm done, no harm done by the Constitution, no harm done by the Civil Code, and I wish all candidates the best. Mr. President, I'm afraid there was a huge fire in the historic peninsula between Gallipoli and Eceabat in our Çanakkale, where I was acting, a major area like 450 hectares was burned. From the very first moment, our Minister, our deputy, our governor, all interests have been in the field. Two planes, 20 helicopters, and more than 100 arrhythmia were intervened, and it was extinguished in the morning. Our greatest consolation is that there is no loss of life, and we're keeping a close eye on the process. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs were the 27th anniversary of the July 5th Prime Minister massacre. We reminisce about this sad day. We curse all terrorist organizations, especially the PKK, asking for God's mercy to 33 of our citizens. Mr. President, it's actually about the general agenda given to the Deputy Directors of the Group before it's on the agenda. But from time to time, we also see our Deputy Group Presidents enter into a more private agenda, inviting them to the polemics. And the precious Deputy Director of the Group has just stated that the Law of Law is a betrayal, that it can't be brought here. We'll consider our views on this issue when the Law of Law comes up, then we'll have all our answers. It is not the product of an instruction, but a reforming law that the two precious parties, the Cumhur Alliance, have prepared with a great sacrifice, where all interests have been taken into consideration, the NGOs, and those concerned.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0045par0225	We'll discuss it at the bar.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0044par0226	We'll consider this reformed law when it comes to it, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0046par0228	They didn't come in front of the door.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0047par0229	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On the basis of 2/2007) I demand that my Law Proposal for the Building of a District under the name of Altınova in Denizli province be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda under Article 37. Yours truly. Offered by Denizli MP Yasin Ozturk. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0048par0245	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the establishment of a district called Altinova in Denizli. Mr. Emin Haluk Ayhan, MP of the National Movement Party, who has now submitted law proposals to this effect in the past period, and from the praying politicians of our Denizli, I ask for the mercy of the Right Path MP Mehmet Gokuzaya, who has emigrated to eternity, and of the Genab. And I salute my fellow Denizlimen and your grand delegation. In our country, the formation of our geographical map is based on 1924. In the early years of the formation of the Republic, the district and village borders were drawn according to landscape shapes, streambeds, lakes and roads that were used at the time. However, the rivers, which later dried up, had been drained and started planting lakes, became controversial in many places, and eventually the settlements began to change in line with the growing needs. Industrialisation, transport, education, and most importantly, migrations have also mediated the change of district and district centres, the establishment of new districts and districts. However, the changes made in the city's laws have caused problems in almost every district and district, sometimes political pressures, sometimes lawmakers' inability to control the area, with a faulty approach to determining administrative centers. Years ago, before Denizli became a major city, I said that Mehmet Gözaya, a Party member of the Right Path Party, had brought the proposal. At that time, the local managers of the two towns next to each other couldn't agree because they couldn't share public buildings in their own areas, so they couldn't. Now, stop being a county, their town's closed down, they're neighborhoods. They used to be able to tell the mayor what he wanted on the doorstep, but now, unfortunately, they're complaining that they can't get the slightest service. One of the reasons why I proposed the establishment of Altınova is that the situation that has been ignored while drawing the boundaries of the city becomes a necessity and a necessity. As of right now, the region is displaying a disorganized view of the neighborhoods nearby, causing both the use of services and the lack of resources to be used correctly. In the event of the adoption of my proposal, Altinova will be established as the centre of the District of Çivril, 12 neighborhoods, 1 neighborhood in Baklan district, and Çıtak and Kıralan neighborhoods. More than 13,000 citizens live in the district to be established. Altınova will also be the centre of economic, social life and attraction for our citizens who live in environments because it is located in the middle of other neighborhoods to connect with it. With Altunova being a district, geographical integrity will be provided, old geographical dissonance will be eliminated, and the district will have a population of more than seven of the current districts of Denizli. I'd like to brief you on the geographical location of the region. It is located in our district of Northern Aegean. This geographical location is an advantage because it displays the properties of the inner Anatolian and northern Aegean climates. What makes this area advantageous? Agricultural wealth can be grown in this region, almost all agricultural products that can be grown in both the Aegean and the Inland Anatolia. In Altınova, the production of barley, wheat, hashish, moon seeds, corn, sugar beets, tobacco, chickpeas, sesame, clover, and figs continues to grow. The land of the Great Menderes River is also inhabited by walnuts, apples, peaches, almonds, and cherry berries. Again, the sale of grain is one of the region's most intensive commercial activities, depending on agriculture. One of the people's most important livelihoods is livestock, which has recently increased the number of food farms and chickens. Co-operatives are established in the region to support animalism, and citizens in the neighborhood are also served here. The second-hand tractor purchase in the Aegean region will be one of Altınova (the main source of livelihood in the Caspian), and the most important center of second-hand tractor purchase is the Caulant. One of the most important livelihoods in the region is shipping. Think about it: you're in an area where agriculture, livestock, shipping, trade can be done, and you can't benefit from local and public services due to the density of the population of the district where you live. This is an injustice to both the people of the region and to Denizli, where we are in the local area. It is important for our region to rise to the level it deserves for its development, for its promise of both economic and social future, and for the people of the region to benefit more easily from the services of health, security, court, national education and other regional institutions, as well as the faster transportation. And for that reason, the region deserves to be a county.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0049par0252	Here, wrap it up, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0048par0253	Dear MPs, although I can only see Ahmet Beyi and Gülizar Hanım in the General Assembly hall at the moment, but first I want to address our Denizli MPs here: you know better than any of our other MPs how much the region will improve in the event of the establishment of a district called Altinova. Mr. Bayram Silver, one of our mayors in the past term, had submitted a file to Mr. President about becoming a county. During the election, our ruling Denizli MPs had made promises from time to time to the region about the district of Altınova. Now's your chance. Let's forget that we're at different parties, let's all make Altanova a county, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit01spe0049par0256	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. According to our agenda, we will vote for the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for the second round of the 27th Legislature. There are motions to run for president, and I'm putting it through the application order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We nominate Mr. Imam Huseyin Filiz, a member of the Gaziantep MP for the second term of the 27th Legislature. We'll pay our respects. [[İzmir MP Kemal Kilicdaroglu's General Assembly Hall gives a standing ovation from CHP's ranks during his presence]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under Article 10 of the 94th and 10th Amendment of the Constitution, we offer and propose the nomination of our Istanbul MP, Mr. Erol Kadircıoğlu, as candidate for the second half of the 27th quarter, the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Fatma Survivor Merit Danış Beştaş Ebrü Günay Tayip Basic Sevin Coshkun Zuleyha Gülim Huda Kaya Alican Önlü Right Saruhan Oluç [[ÜMMM President, Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Şentop]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Articles 94, and Article 10 of the Constitutional Court of Turkey, the second half of the 27th term is nominated for Ankara MP Ahmet Haluk Koç. We demand and demand what we need. With all due respect. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Engin Altay Free Engin Özkoç Ayhan Barut Burhanettin Bulut Orhan Sumer Müzeyyen Sevkin Abdurrahman Tutdere Burcu Koksal Mustafa Tuncer Tekin Bingöl Murat Amir Levent Gök Ali Haydar Hakdi Yıldırım Kaya Brült Kuşoğlu Gamze Taşcıer Servet Üsal Nihat Green Cavit Bee Cetin Osman Budak Aydın Özer Rafet Zeybek Uğur Bayraktutan Suleiman Julbül Bült Tezcan Hüseyin Yıldız Ahmet Akın Ensar Aytekin Fikret Şahin Aysu Bankoglu Yasar Tuğün Mehmet Göker Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Erkan Aydın Tule Karabıyuk Ascendant Özkan Orhan Sarıbal Özgür Ceylan Muharrem Male Flood Köse Gülizar Bicer Karaca Hashim Teoman Sancar Okan Gaytancıoğlu Gürsel Erol Utku Çakırözer Jale Nur Sullu İrfan Kaplan Bayram Yılmazkaya Necati Çığlı Mehmet Güzelmansur Suzan Şahin İsmet Tokdemir Serkan Topal Fethi Ascensional Named Gamze Akkuş İlgez Turan Aydoğan Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Ahmet Ünal Açviköz Emine Gülizar Emecan Yunus Emre Zeynel Emre Aykut Erdoğdu Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi İbrahim Özden Kaboğlu Saliha Sera Kadigil Milk Free Karabat Ilhan Kesici Ascension Mansur Swording Sibel Özdemir Oguz Kaan Salcı Ali Şeker Mahmoud Tanal Mustafa Sezgin Tanıkulu Gürsel Tekin Erdogan İz Gökan Zeybek Ednan Arslan Murat Minister Tacettin Bayır Kani Beko Mehmet Ali Çelebi Sevda Erdan Kılıç Ahmet Tuncay Özkan Mahir Polat Özcan Purçu Selin Sayek Böke Atila Sertel Bedri Serter Kamil Okyay Dündir Ali Öztunç Hüseyin Avni Aksoy İsmail Atakan Üver Hasan Baltacı Çetin Arık Ahmet Önal Vecdi Gündoğdu Turabi Kayan Metin İlhan Haydar Akar Tahsin Tarhan Abdulatif Sener Ali Fazil Butcher Veli Ağbaba Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu Bekir Başşevirgen Alpay Antmen Ali Mahir Akarir Cengiz Gökçel Mürsel Alban Burak Erbay Süleyman Girgin Suat Özcan Faruk Sarıaslan Ömer Fethi Gürer Mustafa Adıl Seyit Torun Baha Celebrity Neslihan Hancıoğlu Kemal Zeybek Peace Black Sea Transport Karasu Saint Light Inspiration Özcan Aygun Faik Öztrak From the Heart to the Ancient Durmaz Ahmet Kaya Polat Şaroğlu Özkan Yım Özcan Special Ali Keven Ünal Demirtaş Deniz Yavuzyılmaz [[İstanbul MP Pervin Buldan]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 94, and Article 10 of the Constitution, we offer and propose the nomination of Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Şentop, as the second chair of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the 27th term. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Müş Bült Turan Özlem Rich Muhammad Emin Akbaşoğlu Cahit Özkan [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I want to run for President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the second half of the 27th term under Article 10 of the 94th and TBM Council of the Constitution. I'll give you what you need. Yours truly. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I want to run for President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on July 7, 2020. I'll give you what you need. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to run for President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the second half of the 27th term under Article 10 of the 94th and TBM Council of the Constitution. With all due respect, it's the right thing to do. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to run for President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the second half of the 27th term under Article 10 of the 94th and TBM Council of the Constitution. With all due respect, I do. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It has been presented to your knowledge. Congressmans, there's a petition to withdraw from the nomination of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning from running for President of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I'll give you what you need. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It has been presented to your knowledge. I'm reading the candidate names for the Speakership as they appear on the sealed ballot according to the alphabetical order of election circles and surnames: [[Ankara]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] Members of parliament, under the fourth joke of Article 94 of the Constitution, the election of the President will be held by a secret vote. In order to be elected president, the first two votes require a vote of at least 400 votes of two-thirds of the total number of members; the third vote requires that the single majority of members have won 301 votes. If the votes won in the third vote cannot be reached by a single majority, there will be a fourth vote for the two candidates who won the most votes in this vote, and the president will be the highest in the fourth vote. I propose how the secret vote will be held: from my right-hand side of the Commission, the first-ranked Clerk Member, from Adana to İstanbul, including İstanbul; from İzmir to Zonguldak, who will give envelopes to lawmakers with sealed ballots, including Zonguldak. The congressman, who will use the vote, will enter the voting booth after receiving the sealed ballot and the envelope, and will mark the square in front of the candidate's name with a cross sign, and then place the ballot in the envelope in front of the presidential court in front of the bench. I'd like to ask the lawmakers to show the necessary sensitivity at the point of the vote's secrecy. I'd like to introduce the members of the vote's attention: When voting, only one of the candidates on the ballot will be marked in front of the square, and the ballots marked by more than one candidate will be invalid. Same color pens are placed in the cabins. The members will use these pens. The vote will be invalid if there are any signs, signatures or doodles on the ballot, except for the square in front of the candidates' names. I'd like to ask the clerks to take their seats. Have the sealed ballots and envelopes delivered to the Members of the Clerk. Congressmans, I'm going to draw a name for the census and transcript of the vote and I'm going to identify a five-man Commission. The members of the Commission will take their place in the commissions after the vote is completed. Mr. Recep Uncuoğlu, Sakarya? No. Irfan Eagle, Van? Here. Haci Bayram Türkoğlu, Hatay? Here. Ahmet Çelik, İstanbul? No. Utku Cakirözer, Eskişehir? No. Dilşat Canbaz Kaya, İstanbul? Here. Ugur Flagtutan, Artvin? Here. Mustafa Baki Ersoy, Kayseri? No. Nusrettin Game, Şanliurfa? No. Mustafa Özrli, Kırşehir? Here. Here you go. Congressmans, we will now begin the vote in the province of Adana. [[The votes have been collected.]] Congressmans, are there any members who aren't using the vote? No. The vote is over. Put the ballots away. Members of the Board of Accounts, please take your seats. I'm rereading the names of the members of the Commission for Accounting: İrfan Kartal, Van MP; Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu, Hatay MP; Dilşat Canbaz Kaya, İstanbul MP; Uğur Bayaktutan, Artvin MP; Mustafa Özrli, Kırşehir MP. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Congressmans, I have a report from the Commission for Accounting, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The second half of the 27th Legislature was held in the 1st round of voting for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (556) and the distribution of the votes was shown below. It's presented with respect. İrfan Kartal Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu Dilşat Canbaz Kaya Ankara MP Ahmet Haluk Koç : 131 votes Gaziantep MP Imam Hüseyin Fiz : 34 votes İstanbul MP Erkan Baş : 9 votes İstanbul MP Erol Kadircıoğlu : 50 votes Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Sentop : 324 votes Members of parliament, according to this conclusion, the first round of the election of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's election did not have a majority of two-thirds of the vote envisioned by the Constitution. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit02spe0049par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 108th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Congressmans, there's a petition to withdraw from the nomination of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the election of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to remind you that any political party group has been banned as a candidate under the Constitution and Internal Charter, to point out that there should be a contest of ideas in the presidential election rather than people and parties, to allow lawmakers to use their free wills, to draw attention to the conditions in which political parties without a group and independent lawmakers participate in the work, and most importantly, I have been nominated once again to carry the voice of the working people of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. After the first round of voting, since we have reached our goals in the election, I hereby withdraw my candidacy. It has been presented to your knowledge. In accordance with the petition, İstanbul MP Erkan has withdrawn from running for President. In the second vote, you will be informed that the ballots will be invalidated when the name of Mr. Prime Minister will be marked. Mr. Head, come in.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit02spe0050par0013	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the Civil Charter 10 and the Constitution have described how to elect 94 Parliament Speakers; there is one ban: the political party groups cannot nominate them. He says, "There is no ban other than that." I'll start by saying, "You'll appreciate it." Even when elected class president in primary school, candidates have the right to speak, explain their candidacy and goals. We don't think there's an official obstacle to this, but it's not because our Parliament is implementing it, and I think it's a major flaw. I hope this approach is not a product of the approach by lawmakers to the island of their own parties. Officially, our parties can't nominate it, but if we ask which one of our congressman friends over there, who's the candidate for your party, he'll say a name. We wanted to point that out. In the next term, during the internal regulations, I remind you once again that regulations must be made for members of non-group parties, independent lawmakers and, in fact, every member of parliament to participate in the work. I've been promised to record my request for this arrangement. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit02spe0051par0018	Members of parliament, we will now begin the second vote in the election for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In this vote, the total number of members will be called two-thirds, or at least 400 votes. Members of parliament, I made the rules regarding the vote and the necessary explanations for the secrecy of the vote in the first place. I believe the necessary sensitivity will be shown. Now, I'm detecting a five-man Commission by taking names for the count and transcript of the vote. After the vote is completed, the members of the Commission will take their place in the commission ranks. St. Light, Şanlıurfa? Here. Ismail Emrah Karayel, Kayseri? Here. Erol Kaya, İstanbul? No. Ali Candy, Istanbul? Here. Suleiman Nightingale, Aydın? Here. Yücel Cloud, Slap? Here. The envelopes used in the second vote should be delivered to the Clerk Members with sealed ballots. Congressmans, we will now begin the vote in Adana province. [[The votes have been collected.]] Do we have any lawmakers who don't use the game? No. The vote is over, the ballots will be removed. Members of the Board of Accounts, please take your seats. I'm rereading the names of the members of the Commission for Accounting: Aziz Aydınlık, Şanlıurfa; İsmail Emrah Karayel, Kayseri; Yücel Bulut, Tokat; Süleyman Bulbül, Aydın; Ali Şal, İstanbul MPs. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of the Council, the Commission of Accounts has arrived, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The second round of the 27th Legislature was shown below by 559 members who participated in the 2nd round of voting for Turkey's Grand National Assembly. It's presented with respect. Saint Ismail Emrah Karayel Yücel Cloud Ankara MP Ahmet Haluk Koç : 133 votes Gaziantep MP Imam Hüseyin Fiz : 36 votes İstanbul MP Erol Kadircıoğlu : 53 votes Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Sentop : 329 votes Members of parliament, according to this conclusion, the second vote of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's election did not include a majority of two-thirds of the vote envisioned in the Constitution. Members of parliament, we will now begin the third vote in the election of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the third vote, the candidate will be elected president of the single majority of members' integers. I put the rules on the vote and the necessary explanations for the secrecy of the vote in the first vote, and I believe the necessary sensitivity will be shown. Since Istanbul MP Erkan is withdrawing from running for President, the third vote will again inform you that the ballots for the name of Mr. Prime Minister will be invalidated. Now, I'm detecting a five-man Commission by taking names for the count and transcript of the vote. After the vote is completed, the members of the Commission will take their place in the commission ranks. Aysu Bankoglu? Here. Metin Nurullah Sazak? Here. Vahit Kiler? No. Ayhan Gunpowder? Here. Orhan Atalay? No. Atila Sertel? No. Abdulkadir Karaduman? No. Hüseyin Yayman? Here. Ali Ihsan Arslan? No. Ahmet Inquisitor? No. Sepil Kemalbay Pekykuğü? Desire Virtue? Here. Please submit envelopes and sealed ballots to the Clerk Members for the third vote. Congressmans, we will now begin the vote in Adana province. [[The votes have been collected.]] Are there any members who don't use the game? No. The vote is over. Put the ballots away. Members of the Board of Accounts, please take your seats. I'm rereading the names of the members of the Commission for Accounting: Aysu Bankoğlu, Bartın MP; Ayhan Gunat, Adana MP; Metin Nurullah Sazak, Eskişehir MP; Arzu Erdem, İstanbul MP; Hüseyin Yayman, Hatay MP. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, we have a report from the Commission of Accounts. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The second round of the 27th Legislature was shown below by 557 members who participated in the third round of voting for Turkey's Grand National Assembly. It's presented with respect. Aysu Bankoğlu Ayhan Barut Metin Nurullah Sazak Ankara MP Ahmet Haluk Koç : 134 votes Gaziantep MP Imam Hüseyin Fiz : 37 votes İstanbul MP Erol Kadircıoğlu : 51 votes Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Sentop : 328 votes [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Members of parliament, according to this conclusion, Mr. Mustafa Sentop, MP of Tekirdağ, was elected President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey by 328 votes in the Constitution. I congratulate them, I wish them all the best. Mr. President, you have a request to say thank you. Here you go, Mr. Sentop.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit02spe0052par0104	Mr. President, I have been promised to be re-elected president of our Veteran Assembly. I salute you all. I'd like to thank each and every member of my fellow lawmakers, each and every member of the council, who sees me worthy of this task again. I congratulate my fellow candidates in this election for their zealous contribution to our democracy as well as their political maturity. I'd like to thank my fellow candidates and their supporters for their success in their work, and thank them for this meaningful race. I want to thank Mr. President of the National Movement Party, who has expressed open support in the election process, and my fellow MPs from the National Movement Party. Of course, I'm grateful to my fellow AK PARTY MP friends, my friends. Thank you, thank you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I express my gratitude to Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the president of the EC PARTI, who, from the very first day I entered politics, for the greatest pride in my life, for his considerations and appreciation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear friends, now, the election is complete. From now on, let no one doubt that I will try to serve the Supreme Assembly with justice and neutrality under the Constitution, the Civil Code, other laws of law and Parliament. This great Parliament, which we stand under its roof, was the center of the national struggle that was born a noble and honorable resistance a hundred years ago when our sovereignty was threatened. The MPs of the First Assembly, which we remember with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude, primarily Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, did not just work as a legislature, but also led and conducted our epic struggle for sovereignty. This year, we understand the 100th anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which has fulfilled this great duty. Once again, I congratulate you on the 100th anniversary of the opening of our House for our beloved nation and all our friends, whose hearts are beating with Turkey. On the 100th anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and on this occasion, I would like to say once again that a glimpse of the courage and heroism that our noble nation has shown to that day, the national struggle, which we can call the first word of their heroism since then, is no longer an event in history, and it is no longer a closed chapter. The national struggle is not only a process of conflict, but also a name of consciousness, and that consciousness continues to exist in the mind and heart of our ethnic nation, under this lofty roof. From those days to these, in all difficult times, the hope of our nation has always been in this great House. Today, this Parliament is the center of our nation's will, an institution that hopes in the most difficult times. The guarantee of our state and politics is the heart of democracy. Our most important task is to be worthy of this great House, which has been shaped with glory, honor, heroism, sacrifice, and patriotism, and to preserve the reputation of our House as our eyes, to carefully avoid anything that will bring about this dignity. As lawmakers, it should be our duty to make this sacred place the center of common sense, nation's property, and solutions, civil speech and discussion. We must never forget that the time we consume by exhausting each other with useless, inconclusive arguments is our most important loss. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a free place for all the ideas, talkers, and worldview that are in return for the nation. As long as Turkey does not target it, does not refer to civilian politics and does not adopt violence as a method, every political idea and formation will continue to exist under this lofty roof. I will work with all my might to protect the interests of Turkey, the law of our nation, the health of our civil policy and democracy, the dignity and dignity of our great Assembly, and my applications will always be in this direction. At the end of my words, from April 23, 1920, I thank and thank all of our Parliamentary Speakers and deputies who have served in our Veteran Parliament, particularly Veteran Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who has left us, and I wish our Parliament Speakers a healthy, peaceful life. I'd like to thank you all again for the confidence and gratitude you've shown about me by choosing the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This duty is a great honor to me, and it is not the trust of our beloved nation, which has been cast in the votes of your grand delegation. May His Holiness not disgrace me to you and to our beloved nation. I salute your high council and yours in person, our great nation, the unregistered and unconditional owner of sovereignty. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-07-07sit02spe0053par0125	[[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Members of parliament, we will now choose the second half of the 27th term for the membership of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Presidential Court. I'm going to have the Presidential Court's memberships read the list of candidates reported by political party groups and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly lists nominations for the 2nd Circuit Presidential Court Süzeyya Sadi Isparta AK PARTY Bayram Özçelik Burdur AK PARTY Emine Sare Aydın İstanbul AK PARTY Rumesa Kadak İstanbul AK PARTY Isaac Gazel Kütahya AK PARTY Sheikhmus Dinçel Mardin AK PARTY Mustafa Deliberate Nevşehir AK PARTY Enez Kaplan Tekirdağ GOOD PARTY Ali Şahin Gaziantep AK PARTY Fehmi Albay Özalan İzmir AK PARTI Halil Özcan Şanlıurfa AK PARTY All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The mandate of lawmakers elected to the Presidential Court will begin as of July 16, 2020. He's celebrating elected MPs, and I wish you all the best. [[Applause]] According to the decision taken, it is Wednesday (July 8th 2020) at 2:00 p.m. to discuss the legal proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
