tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 70th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Dear friends, I'd like to share our views with you in honor of the March 18th victory of Çanakkale and the 105th anniversary of Memorial Day of Martyrs. On important days and important nights, recalling important historical events is basically like burning a fanus in the dark. Because in these historical curves, these memories have a very important effect at the point of lighting those darknesses. But not content with the memorial, but to understand the content, the purpose of the content, is to have a mathematical posture. Look, we think it's possible to remember and understand the Canakkale martyrs and keep the Chanakkale spirit very well alive. No doubt the Chanakkale spirit, which is revealed from the union of the brotherhood of the people, not from its convergence, but from its intertwined place of eternal rest, joins us all in the same denominator of independence. The brotherhood, I intended to become a brother. It's not what I say. The brotherhood is such a final and distant goal that it is possible to achieve it with much effort and price. Here, the goal that the Chanakkale spirit actually gives us and leaves us as an inheritance is a simurg of this land, this geography. I don't want to be rude, but you know very well that Simurg is a final distance from self-consciousness to self-consciousness, as do the people of our geography, from self-self-consciousness to self-involvedness. I would like to address Turkey from this bench -- with your permission -- I would like to address the whole world, and I would say that the Turks and Kurds are brotherly people, and they are responsible for sticking to the Chanakkale spirit. As a result, I say, O witness to the truth, how well immortality suits you. And I want to express my faith in the future, in the sake of independence, that each and every one of us will be sensitive. [[Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), AK PARTI and CHP welcome]] Dear friends, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement is from Kayseri MP Cetin Arik, who wants to talk about health workers' problems and coronavirus. Here you go, Mr. Arik.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0002par0017	Thank you, Mr. President. In the Battle of Salvation, on July 15th, and today, I salute the Veterans Assembly, which continue without a break in the Parliament's work against the pandemic of the corona that scorches the world. Today, March 18th, I remember and thankfully all our martyrs, including our great leader, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who wrote a historic epic by saying, "There is no way to cross the line." Congressmans, the coronavirus epidemic has clearly shown us two things: first, how important protective health care is. You'll appreciate that the government's main duty is not to infect its citizens, but we've been saying it's very sick for years, a lot of research, a lot of surgery, a lot of money. We promised city hospitals 80% full. Second, the period of the doctor is over. Once again, we have seen a group of professionals who have been targeted, despised, humiliated, and abused, who have been targeted by the Doctor. We have seen once again what a great task a group has actually done. Schools closed, businesses closed, shopping malls evacuated, meetings canceled, flights turned down, international borders closed; life basically stopped, people were afraid to look at each other, touch each other, but hospitals were open, doctors were sick. I have a cough, I have a fever. He doesn't look three metres behind those who say, "I have a pulse, he listens to his lungs." I am once again proud to be a member of this professional group. Once again, I celebrate the March 14th Medical Day of all health workers serving in this difficult period. Congressmans, we find the Ministry of Health to take measures against the world's devastating pandemic of coronavirus, establish the Science Council, inform the public, and support it. However, the number of tests to determine the prevalence of this epidemic in our country is very poor. The ministry must daily share the results of positive and negative tests with the number of tests being conducted. These numbers are really important, because if you can't determine exactly how many people are infected, your quarantine measures will be meaningless. Another problem is that the tests are being conducted in a limited number of centers. Test centers need to be increased quickly. Members of parliament, we see with regret that there are serious shortcomings in the detection of citizens from abroad and those they are in contact with. This outbreak wasn't new, it was December. So why did you let thousands of people go to the house? Come on, they were allowed, their return date was clear, why wasn't there a plan to quarantine them all? See, only one of the 250 caravans from Umrei arrived on March 5th in Kayseri on the same plane was observed due to high fever. What needed to be done was to put 250 people under observation. Sadly, the remaining 249 were sent home; we do not know who they were in contact with. When a person from Umre was diagnosed with the virus, quarantine measures began, he says. So there's never been a plan for citizens from Umre. If the planning had been done, our children would not have had to be moved out of their homes in the middle of the night, and our citizens from the community would not have had to be moved. Dear lawmakers, there are 14 measures on television that we must take against the corona with a public spot every day, which are measures that must be implemented to the letter. But when we look at the number of cases, it's growing logarithmally. One man has lost his life, God rest his soul. What needs to be done immediately is that the educational research hospitals that were closed when the city hospitals opened must be opened immediately and the intensive care units must be established and provided with sufficient respiratory equipment. Public transportation is packed. Public transportation is the biggest risk, it must be cancelled immediately. The protection of physicians and health workers must be taken, and you cannot protect society without protecting physicians and health workers. See, lawmakers, the health workers were given the only mask in Urbana with only two hours of protection. So what happens in two hours? See, you're looking after us again for the children of the health workers in France, and we'll look after you.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0003par0027	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0002par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. They also made free hotels near their posts for taxis and rest. Similar arrangements must be made immediately for our health workers, and 620,000 medics waiting for the appointment must be appointed immediately. Congressmans, this disease has no cure, no vaccine. The only way to avoid the Coronavirus outbreak is if the vaccine is produced immediately. So, can we make this vaccine as Turkey? I'm afraid not. Because you've shut down the Dr. Refik Saydam Institute, which produces our domestic and national vaccine, has achieved great success in the diagnosis and treatment of viral infections, is the age of the republic, and you've completed the production of local vaccines. Now, the flu vaccine, which we received by paying for the palm of our hands, was recently manufactured in our homeland. After all, you have reset vaccine production in Turkey. Turkey, which sold typhus vaccines to Middle Eastern countries in the 1940s, is now unfortunately in need of a hand. Today, among the top 15 companies that have spent the most RD spending in Turkey, there is not one genius pharmaceutical company.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0004par0032	Let's wrap it up, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0002par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. The budget for the chairmanship of the Ministry of Religious Affairs is 5 times the budget for TÜBITAK. If the vaccine policy was supported in the early years and the continuation of the republic, if the national industry had been protected and protected, we would not have expected to buy the virus vaccine from foreign countries today. To change Turkey's future, priorities must first be changed, the mentality of power must be disinfected. I wish you a healthy day, I greet you with respect.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0005par0037	The second non-responsive statement belongs to Hakkari MP Sait Dede (Akta) who wants to talk about health workers' problems. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Grandpa.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0006par0041	Mr. President, we are deeply saddened by the loss of the lives of a citizen due to the outbreak of the coronavirus. I ask Allah for His mercy and patience for his kinsmen. Yesterday, we witnessed a difficult, unexplainable political approach here. Yesterday, as the People's Democratic Party, we, the Republican People's Party and the GOOD PARTY, have brought the main issue of the pandemic of coronavirus and its research proposals to the agenda of the General Assembly in an urgent effort to establish research commissions. As expected, the proposals were rejected with the support of MPHP in the AKP's leadership. I'd like to ask you again, on behalf of all citizens, on behalf of the public, why do you refuse? See, the number of cases is increasing day by day. Today, after China, Italy is the most affected by the outbreak of coronavirus. Since March 11, 2020, the period of the outbreak has been similar to Italy. Today in Italy, the number of cases and deaths are expressed in thousands, while the number of individuals in Turkey is rising to the level that will lead to severe consequences. Based on the rate the disease is spreading in other countries, the next few weeks are critical. It is vital that we make plans quickly and implement them on time, predicting that the number of patients can increase rapidly. As health organizations have insisted, enough tests are required to identify and isolate patients and contact with those who are suspected of illness. With sufficient tests, the rate of prevalence of the disease in the community is also required to reduce the rate of infection by taking measures that improve social distance at appropriate times. It is important for the epidemic and the struggle to organize the health system in response to rapidly increasing number of patients. Dear lawmakers, we said here yesterday that measures should be taken first, physical and psychological support for health workers should be increased to maximum. Many of our friends have discussed the matter fully, expressing what needs to be done. But what we see, what we see in practice, what we propose is that almost nothing is considered. We recommend that everyone, especially the Minister of Health, first take a transparent and open approach to public opinion. In order to implement a transparent and open approach, I would like to first express from the Health Minister which cities the cases occur in, that the areas of gender, age, impact should be shared with the public as soon as possible. I'd like to point out that we've found out that the press releases, which have been made into a nightly program, were unofficial at close to midnight. Unfortunately, a viral outbreak is superficial and inadequate, given the fact that every night there is only a change in the number of cases or whether it ended in death or not. It's a constitutional right to get information, to get information, but it's the most basic desire of us and every citizen to get information in a way that is not fully and fully embedded in political maneuvers. Another important issue is to ignore the warnings and suggestions of important NGOs such as the Turkish Medical Association and the Health Labor Union. The Ministry of Health and its relevant institutions must co-operate with NGOs. According to the Turkish Medical Association and Health Workers' Union' Union's statements, the coronavirus outbreak is critical in the next two weeks, considering the rate it spreads in other countries. Of course, none of us have any intention of causing disaster, but scientific data shows signs that the number of patients will increase. Therefore, the measures taken so far must be gradually increased, and social distances must be increased before our citizens are victimized. Dear friends, it is imperative that we develop emergency action plans, especially in cities where hospital inventory is inadequate, to be aware that we are entering a critical period. The number of centers to test must be increased, and crisis tables must be set up in every city for all citizens to reach the current and accurate information. It's not known how to get in and out of the border gates, how to take precautions. Thus, it is common for citizens to be easily driven into panic through unconfirmed information. Dear lawmakers are known to require intensive care in the part of the hospital that has reached 20 per cent of the patients, which has reached 5 per cent.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0007par0048	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0006par0049	I'm completing it, Mr. President. In this regard, the clinic, which has an active role in the diagnostic and treatment process with physicians and health workers in hospital emergencys, needs to provide all kinds of protection requirements for labs, radiology doctors and health workers, including masks, full repair of all protective equipment needs, working hours and conditions, and the health of their own and relatives. It must not be forgotten that the most endangered group of health workers in the epidemic is the health workers. The measures necessary to protect health workers from illness must be taken at once. Again, I regret to inform you that if the measures are not taken in time, the health balance of the epidemic should not be forgotten that it will grow exponentially, and the only way to avoid this pandemic with minimal loss is to ensure the safety of health workers first. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0008par0054	The third non-responsored statement belongs to Army MP Şenel Seven Yıldıldıl, who wants to talk about the outbreak of the coronavirus and the 105th anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale. Here you go, Mr. Seven Stars.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0009par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, yes, today is the 105th year of the battle of Çanakkale. In February 1915, the nations began the battle of Çanakkale with naval warfare, and on March 18, 1915, when they realized they could not cross the sea, they retreated and attacked from land. This retreat then occurred when the Nusret miner, which was in the Canakkale Straits of Çanakkale, mined the throat in spite of everything, and sunk the flagship of the Ottoman states of the autonomous states, such as Seyit Ali Fast (Set Corporal), and John the Ezineite, with 67 men under his command, stopped the British forces on the beach, and was never to be removed from the top pages of the world's history! This unique epic in Çanakkale was both our future and our future struggle, and the determination he gave the people of Asia Minor, hope and determination, sparked the torch of the Battle of Salvation. Çanakkale is an anticephe that will forever explain how determined and heroic the Turkish nation is when it comes to independence and freedom, as in the July 15 treacherous coup attempt. In the battle of Çanakkale, the Turkish soldier showed his humanity, as in Syria, Bosnia, and other countries, showing that even the Turkish nation did not lose its humanity in battle, but could show mercy to its enemy. With these thoughts, once again, on Memorial Day of March 18th, and on the 105th anniversary of the Sea Victory of Çanakkale, I remember our sacrifice, our martyrs, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal, who made these lands our homes, with mercy and gratitude. Dear MPs, I'm afraid we gave you the first victim of the coronavirus (Covid-19) that was wrapped around the world as a pandemic. I pray for the mercy of our 89-year-old elder who passed away, and the patience of the rest. Coronavirus is a mutation of MERS and SARS viruses. So this virus is not a new virus to the world, it's a mutated form of MERS and SARS viruses from ancient times. It's infected by respiratory, respiratory disease. In their respiratory pathways, they do what we call advanced pneumonia in the lungs, and most people suffer from this disease lightly. The disease began in China, spreading throughout the world, making pandemics. Those who are more advanced in age, who have a disease below them, who smoke, who have a lung disease, or who have liver, kidney, heart failure, or hypertension, are more likely to suffer from severe and watch death. Today, this disease has been reduced to a certain level in China, but has made Europe central in many countries of Europe, Italy, Spain, Germany, Belgium, and it has become widespread and has caused further deaths. Turkey, on the other hand, has been the best place to take these measures since the outbreak began in China. Praise be to God, we've protected this society from this virus for 90 days, and I hope we'll be able to survive this virus, this plague, with the least amount of damage. Under the leadership of our President of the Republic of Turkey, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, all cabinet members, especially our Minister of Health, have fought very hard and fought very hard to fight this virus. For those deaths that began in China on December 31st, on February 1st, our Minister of Health stepped in and cut ties with China; then he began to become in Iran, cut ties with Iran; and then we controlled all the entrances to Europe. And it's not possible for a pandemic virus to not meet Turkey at the end of the day, but even though Turkey is now in control of all inputs, all cases are under control. Hopefully, this virus will come to a better conclusion before it goes any further. Now, Turkey -- God forbid -- is ready to fight this war with its hospitals, employees, health workers, and equipment in hospitals when any disease is widespread. As our number of beds as well as the number of ICUs and tools -- praise be to God -- we have everything right now.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0010par0067	Here you go, Mr. Seven Stars.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0009par0068	Hopefully, without need, but cautiously, with every precaution, we will continue this struggle.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0011par0069	It's not enough to say "God willing."
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0009par0070	Hopefully, tomorrow, Mr. Minister will inform the Council of this, and he has informed our Commission before, and tomorrow, hopefully, he will inform our Parliament about this virus, this disease, the struggle. I'd like to say a few more things: the state has done and done everything the Ministry can do about it, and the responsibility falls to the authorities. If we protect ourselves, protect ourselves with simple things, make sure we get rid of this virus as cheap as possible. It's important to remember that this virus is a hand-me-down virus. For that, we also need to pay absolute attention to our hand cleaning.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0011par0072	It's a respiratory infection. It's getting airborne, I'd love to. It's also infected with an oral infection.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0009par0073	It's infected by breathing, but we'll manually send it to that respiratory pathway. It's not an airborne virus. When we lay our hands on our mouth, our eyes, our noses, we infect the virus. So, we'll be careful with our hand.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0012par0075	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0009par0076	We will avoid handshakes, hugs, and close contact; we will guard our hands, our eyes, and our noses.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0013par0077	It's airborne.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0009par0078	I thank our health workers, our doctors, all our nurses, and our other health workers, who have worked so hard in this struggle, so night and day. The problem is global, the struggle is national. Corona says the virus is no stronger than the measures we take, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0014par0080	Congressmans, I will now promise the first 15 lawmakers who enter the system to their place for a minute. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0015par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, we are on the 105th anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale on March 18th, where the national fighting spirit and Turkish military power have been proven. Our heroic army, which has won a great victory in Çanakkale, has also sparked the torch of the Battle of Salvation, which has given hope and determination to the people of Anatolia. I thank you with mercy and thanks to all of our veterans, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who wrote the epics of heroics in gold and made this land our homeland. You don't go around saying "total" where you're stepping, you know, Think of the thousands of shroudless beds under it. You're the martyr's son, don't hurt him, it's a shame. Verme, this is the land of heaven, even if you take the world. On the occasion of March 18th Martyrs' Day, I give thanks to all our martyrs, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0016par0092	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0017par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. Çanakkale is a glorious epic by our profession, challenging seven heifers, bringing the most modern armies of the era to its knees, changing the course of history. Çanakkale is the land where a nation of historic triumphs awakens from its centuries' sleep, reborn from its ashes, embodiment of the spirit of unity and unity. Çanakkale is also a symbol of our devotion as a nation to our country, to our freedom, to the sacred values that made us who we are. On the 105th anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale, which we understand with great pride and excitement, I salute once again all the heroes and saints of the legend of Çanakkale, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and once again, with gratitude and gratitude, our veterans, the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0016par0096	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0018par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. The greatest nameless heroes of the Canakkale Victory are the noble spirited mothers who condemn and send their children to the front. We remember those mothers with infinite gratitude and gratitude. The West is the blessed mothers of faith, who have raised their children with religion, faith, persecution, country, flag, holy love, and then sent them to the front, as if they were sending them to the wedding, let it be repeated in the manner of Islam's obsession with women today. Thus, the hearts of young generations must be filled with the thrill of raising righteous and righteous children, depending on their national and spiritual values. For it is possible for the nations to raise a sacrificing generation with a leveled heart. The generation that raised their children with the legend of Çanakkale will have their religion, their flag, their land, their history, all their material, spiritual values. On the Day of the Martyrs, March 18th, I salute all the heroic martyrs who entrusted us with these lands with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude, and respect of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0016par0100	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0019par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. As part of the measures taken on the Coronavirus, Turkey has closed home, schools have been vacationed, education will begin online next week. Many organizations have allowed their employees to work from home. Instead of meeting face-to-face, people were able to communicate through the Internet. In this context, Internet use has become a basic need. In the coming process, especially our students will need the Internet intensively. A lot of people have already filled their quotas and are having trouble accessing them. I'm calling the government and Internet providers: as long as the antiviral measures continue, let the taxes be removed from the Internet, companies make special quotas for educational publications during this transition period, and all access fees reduced by 50 per cent. I demand this on behalf of our nation as an example of social solidarity. Now it's time to put everyone under the table. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0020par0105	Mr. Pilot...
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0021par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. Çanakkale, the triumph of faith and faith is the immortal work of the progeny of Assim. Çanakkale, the miracle of the glorious sacrifice, which collides like the lions of Bedr, is the footstep of those who walk to martyrdom for the sake of a crescent. Çanakkale, the insurmountable wall, the unbreakable faith, is unwavering courage; a homeland, a flag, an epic; honor, a sacrifice; a martyr, a hero; the head of the Turk, a stand-up, and the seven heifers. The dedication of the 57th Regiment, nobility, faith, giving up, free love of the land, love of the people and a fortress of faith; the heart of Seyit Corporal, Mehmet Sergeant, Nezahat Corporal; I command you not to attack, but to die. The very heart of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Can't cross a benakkale. I remember our martyrs with mercy, gratitude, and pride. Stop, pilgrim! This land you came and stepped on without knowing is where an era sinks.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0022par0111	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0023par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 105th anniversary of our victory in Çanakkale, and also the Memorial Day of the Martyrs. In 1352, the hero first conquered the Chimpe Castle in Gallipoli Peninsula, where there were two rafts of 40 in one and 39 in the other. On March 18, 1915, the historic battle against the seven heifers did not take place. And now we're going to cross the bridge in Çanakkale in 1915 and the throat in the middle at 2,023 meters. The project was planned in the form of a suspension bridge with a total length of 3,623 meters. The bridge will be the world's longest drawbridge. Both rubber wheels and railways will cross the bridge and, hopefully, will be opened in 2023, the 100th year of the republic. These achievements in our history and in our present are all of us, and we have done so with unity and zeal.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0024par0117	Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0025par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the anniversary of our victory in Çanakkale, March 18th. A hundred and five years ago, our economist said, "There is no passing through." He reshaped history. I remember with mercy and gratitude all our martyrs who gave their lives for the sake of our country and our nation. I celebrate the March 18th and 24th Week of Respect for the Elders of our elders, who have served society and his country for most of their lives, and who have made up the building blocks of bridges between today and the future. The basic rule of social life is mutual love and respect. In accordance with this fundamental rule, the Turkish community has made social solidarity a principle in every stage of life. Love and respect for the elderly today will reduce our anxiety about the future, making sure that all individuals, regardless of their age, look to life with confidence. Let's not forget we're all tomorrow's elders. Under the leadership of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we have implemented many projects in terms of minimizing and resolving the problems our elders face. Our elders...
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0026par0123	Mr. Montenegro...
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0027par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. It's the name of a great struggle given to no nation throughout history by the heroic sons of the great Turkish nation, Çanakkale. In the words of the poet, it is a test of the fire where the lions roared, Çanakkale. It's a place where the henna lambs are thrown into the rose garden into the martyrdom, Çanakkale. Canakkale is such a struggle that it is a battle to sustain the existence, independence of a nation that has been exhausted for centuries. The victory of Çanakkale took its place in history as a holy victory, which was given thousands of martyrs under difficult circumstances. I celebrate the 105th year of our victory in Çanakkale, honoring our heroes, who have made the country impenetrable, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0026par0127	Dear Goldstone...
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0028par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. A hundred and five years ago, on March 18, 1915, the Battle of Çanakkale ended in our victory. Under Admiral Robeck, a British-French joint fleet of 12 ships, known as the irreparable armada, under British Marine Minister Winston Churchill's plan, attempted to cross the Bosphorus on March 18th after heavily shelling Turkish positions on the two edges of Çanakkale Straits, under the command of Admiral Robeck, but were forced to retreat by the accuracy of the Turkish artillery and by the loss of seven ships from the Nusret ship's mines. On April 25th, the enemy then tried to land landing operations with the Anzak forces, but it was heroically repelled. I celebrate this great victory, including my late grandfather Osman Altıntaş, and honor and mercy all our martyrs and veterans, especially Mustafa Kemal Ataturk.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0029par0132	Mr. Chepni...
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0030par0134	Thank you, Mayor. Mustafa Koçak has been on a death fast in prison for 260 days demanding a fair trial. We're just in a country where we have to die on a fair trial demand. Koçak was forced to hospitalize from Şakran Prison where he was found a week ago and was forced to give insulin. Mustafa Koçak, who refused, was subjected to severe tortures, including sexual harassment, for five days. Putting insulin on a person who's down to 30 kilograms will result in injury, which means murder. The government must end the torture immediately, meet Mustafa Koçak's demand for a fair trial.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0029par0136	Mr. Gültekin...
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0031par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. We live together today as the mighty Turkish nation, with the honor and pride of celebrating the 105th year of our victory at Çanakkale Sea, the heroic epics of our career, which are deeply devoted to spiritual values. Çanakkale is a unique victory, epic, where a nation of historic triumphs awakens from its centuries' sleep, defies seven heifers born from its ashes. Despite all negative circumstances, the victory of Çanakkale, won by faith, determination, and homeland, celebrates the 105th anniversary of our victory. I remember with mercy and gratitude all our martyrs and heroic veterans, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who wrote his words in history. As descendants of our Çanakkale martyrs, I salute the Veteran Assembly and the General Assembly with respect to our president, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, saying that we will not compromise in any way, our future and our freedom, we will always strive to raise our country above the level of peaceful civilizations.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0032par0142	Mr. Aycan...
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0033par0144	Mr. President, I'd like to remind you of the 1593th Law of Public Influence, which was adopted in 1930 when we lived in the coronavirus pandemic. The Public Security Law is a law of health protection in general. In chapter two, he regulates the fight against infectious diseases. According to the law, infectious diseases are a public health issue. The Ministry of Health is authorized to take every precaution to fight the plague. Decisions taken require that all units and all citizens obey; those who do not comply are guilty of violating the law and threatening the health of the people. Failure to comply with the measures taken cannot be viewed as individual rights. We're not on vacation, we're fighting the plague. That's why I'm inviting everyone to comply with the decisions made by the Ministry of Health. I think it'll make sense when everyone follows these decisions, and we'll prevent the outbreak. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0032par0146	Mr. Stoneborn...
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0034par0148	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, it's clear that we've been through some difficult times. No one should have any doubt that we will defeat the plague of Corona with the power of mind, science, and prayer. I also believe that even in the past, even in more difficult moments, the Turkish nation, who is not intimidated and frustrated, will be able to break the siege of this virus. Obeying the Ministry of Health's recommendations and recommendations to break the virus is a requirement for human and public health. It is my primary wish that by sticking together, by following the rules, by enforcing solidarity and cooperation, we create an insurmountable front against the curse virus. There is no need to be alarmed, there is no need to be afraid, as God is five pure desires. It is contrary to the fact that a people who believe that good and evil are from Allah should submit to it and become alarmed by it.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0032par0150	Here you go, Mr. Gündüz.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0035par0152	My question is to the Treasury and the Finance Minister. In the outbreak of viruses worldwide and in our country, vital measures must first be taken and must continue to be taken. Apart from individual protection from the virus, our citizens must have strong body resistance. All experts agree that the most important enemy of resistance is stress and anxiety. Do you consider a family insurance policy in order to address citizens' economic concerns for at least 11 years, to quickly assemble the Economic and Social Council, to protect all sectors from economic turmoil, and to reduce the cost of the citizens to adapt to vital measures? Is it expected to be used under extraordinary circumstances, to reorganise conditions for the Employment Insurance Fund, to delay tax and insurance payments for small tradesmen and COBI? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0032par0154	Here you go, Mr. Karahocagil. The Lord blessed me on a blessed day I turned and said to myself, in front of that martyrdom... O unaware, stop and think, this is Çanakkale This is where the world doesn't see a mate. Let your posture be true, this is Çanakkale. This isn't where my apocalypse doesn't go without an abscess... A martyr from every corner waits here for the country Won't this view shake before you? Spare me the unnecessary vanity, the speeches. Come close to him, look at him with fear... The race doesn't matter the color. When you say religion, you stand there. This place's stone is light, earth is light, water is light The country is a martyred army for the sake of the nation. It was like the sound of the throne shaking and it was like... ▪ I built the state with faith all over again ♪ I'm an unbreakable, unbreakable blessed homeland ♪ I've seen Laz, Circik, Bosniak, Arab, Albanian Even if I'm Turkish, I'm just as cruel. The poet Seyfeddin Karahocagil. Now, Mr. Group, I'm going to meet the VP's demands. Mr. Dervisoglu, deputy president of the group.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0036par0179	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. March 18th Memorial Day and the 105th anniversary of our victory at Çanakkale Sea. I would also like to say that I agree with our MPs' opinions and opinions on the matter, their wishes and feelings. I remember once again our hundreds of thousands of martyrs, whose names have been immortalized and who have been first known as Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, with gratitude, mercy, and gratitude; their souls shall be in peace, and their places shall be in heaven. The spirit of the great struggle in Çanakkale continues today with the same determination and determination in the blood of the Turkish nation. With the spirit of Çanakkale, the goal of bringing our country to the level of murky civilizations and to ensure the unity and integrity of our nation is what we today flag as the good party. We'll take care of this goal and pass it on to our future generations. About the pandemic of the coronavirus, which has occupied the entire country's agenda, as well as the GOOD PARTI, we continue to take our internal measures, delay our political efforts. In order for this process to be carried out in a healthy manner, we will seriously carry out all of our duties and responsibilities as a good PARTY. With the recommendation of our President-General, a monitoring committee has been established, and we're following closely the process of the outbreak. We observe that the number of studies in Turkey is not enough, that we do not have enough study kits, and that our speed to get results from studies is not enough. Among those who have not yet been examined, unfortunately, we may have citizens who may be carriers.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0037par0185	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0036par0186	The steps needed to be taken to prevent this situation must be carried out at once. Of course, we find our health department's process management and struggle so far valuable. We hope our warnings will be taken into consideration in order to avoid any further negatives. Tomorrow, Mr. Fahrettin, our Minister of Health, we welcome the announcement of the Grand Assembly as a good and positive decision, but we believe it is not enough for the Minister of Health to inform the House. At the moment, the summit of the state is closed to the press, meeting with a large delegation at the Çankaya Mansion. We also consider the fact that this meeting is being held in the Chankaya Mansion, especially on the basis of security, not just a coincidence, but a meaningful humility.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0038par0190	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0036par0191	I hope and hope that the decision on the dangers and threats facing the state and the nation will continue to be made in the Chankaya Mansion, as it was in the past. We were able to watch the meeting at the beginning, and the participants are sitting one meter apart, and we're working side by side in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and we're entering a law-making contest. The Justice and Development Party has a motion for the Parliament's working hours and methods, which must be decided by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, carefully and carefully. We also look forward to making decisions from the meeting at the Çankaya Mansion. It's very important that the Minister of Health comes here and informs the House, of course, but when we look at the committee, we see that the entire Council of Ministers is there and that there are representatives representing the civil society; the delegation is very crowded. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0039par0195	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0036par0196	It is not only enough that the Minister of Health informs us that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should also be informed, but the issue must be addressed in different dimensions. In particular, the Treasury and Finance Minister, the Interior Minister, the Foreign Minister and the Vice President of today's meeting, must personally come and enlighten our Grand National Assembly of Turkey and share the message from this place with our nation. I thank you very much, sir, in the hope that this responsibility will be fulfilled.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0039par0198	Deputy Director of the National Movement Party, Mohammed Levent Nightingale... Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0040par0201	Dear MPs, there is a log on every ship in the world called the "Jurnal" book. This is a ledger of all the improvements of the ship when it was in port and when it was in navigation, where the ship's course, speed, and information were compiled. It is noted in this notebook, especially when crossing shallow waters and waterways. For example, the Cebelitarik Strait was entered at this time. Notes are noted, "The Cebelitarik Strait was removed at this time." The only exception in the world is the Canakkale Strait. When the Canakkale Strait was entered, no note was dropped, but when it was released, the Chanakkale Strait was exited at this time. That is, of course, because of the fact that Çanakkale is impenetrable. We want to express our compassion and gratitude here today for our great apocalypse -- which made Çanakkale -- a hundred and five years before this -- unbreakable. God bless them. We'd like to express that we have reminiscently and gratefully remembered from here, the great victory of our nation's struggle, which could also be regarded as a consummation of our nation's struggle. Mr. President, of course, the coronavirus measures, their measures are highly high and are being tried to implement in our country with great precision.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0039par0204	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0040par0205	We said here yesterday, of course, the problem is global, but the struggle is national. We personally referred to the importance of everyone taking these measures with discipline in this struggle. Our government is also trying to implement quarantine measures with great precision. At this point, we're asking all of our public members, our staff of the Ministry of Health, to make it easy on them, to congratulate them on the struggle they've made so far. But a video we saw on social media last night upsets all of us. Now, this video makes a lot of sense. It also teaches us this: This matter suggests to us the fact that we don't consider any incident as a matter of position, as a matter of interest, as an event of individuality, or as a matter of fact, as a matter of interest.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0039par0207	Go ahead, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0040par0208	Now, in that video, when our citizens are on a bus from France to Istanbul moving from the plane to the quarantine area, the bus is stopped, a lady is taken off this bus by herself, and she is seen to be put into a police vehicle, and all the passengers there are in a great panic, and they're talking about it behind her back. But this event, which is taking place in front of everyone, is becoming an agenda throughout Turkey in a very short period of time. After that, our government is immediately involved. The Minister of Interior is making a statement: The incident is being investigated. It's done for those in charge. It says, "Otherwise, the information that this lady is being quarantined is shared with the public. Of course, it's good to take precautions after these events, but it's good to be followed; we thank you at this point. But these events, things that shouldn't have happened. At a moment when we're fully motivated by society, fully focused, our government struggles in a huge campaign...
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0039par0210	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0040par0211	We see our Minister of Health every evening, we get upset when we see him, his eyes turn to bloodshots, and I don't think there's anything to sleep over at the sleeping spot. He's struggling because of the pursuit of matters. So are our other ministers. Now, with so much work being given, because of a law against the law given by one person, the failure of the motivation of the whole of Turkey, at which point our citizens, our nation's attention, and its commitment to this point, are very deeply shaken and upsetting to us. These are events that shouldn't have happened. At this point, we've also learned that other than quarantine measures, investigations have been launched by the state's attorney's office for illegal activities, which we welcome.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0039par0213	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0040par0214	But these efforts are not the kind of work that can be lost, but the cost of possible deviations in these quarantine measures can be too high for all of us. At this point, at this particular point, when our government struggles so much, anyone who breaks it has to pay the price for it, who gives it instructions to act outside of these quarantine measures. At this point, no one has the right to undermine our nation's trust. By the way, when you get off the bus, I give you all the respect and respect to that arrogant man who says, "What's necessary in that Hadsize?"
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0039par0216	Mr. Mehmet Rüşç Tiryaki representing Peoples' Democratic Party Group.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0041par0218	Thank you, Mr. President. And at the beginning of my speech, I remember those who lost their lives in the battle of Çanakkale with mercy and gratitude. Was it not right or was it not, that we were in the first share war, a whole other discussion, but looking back from today, I think the most important thing is that at Çanakkale Martyrdom, our ancestors and grandfathers lie side by side. Both Aleppolisi, Kerkuklü, Diyarbakırn, Şırnakn, Hakakarilii, Erzurumlu, Artvinli, Adanai, Mersinli, Samsunlu, Army, Kayseri, Ankara, İzmirli, Afyonite, Albanian, Bosniak, Arab, Kurdish, and Turkish. But you see, her grandchildren are busy eating and destroying each other like they've forgotten all this. On the anniversary of March 18th, we sincerely hope for peace to come to this land, this geography. Looks like we're going to be living with the coronavirus for a long time. I'm saying we're going to try to live because there's been the first death. We see that the number of patients has increased geometrically, and in one week the number of patients has increased from one to 98. If this continues, the number of patients is estimated to be thousands within a few weeks. Says a member of the Science Board. We don't think the Ministry of Health is leading the process badly, and the health workers are working hard, but the problem is, was Turkey ready to fight such an epidemic? We don't think he was ready. Let's be very clear, for a long time the government's health policies have been based on privatisation and city hospitals. By God, you hadn't destroyed the old hospitals yet, Tahir Burak was one of those hospitals you shut down, and you were able to use it for quarantine. For Ankara's sake, we have the Numune Hospital, the Sami Nation Children's Hospital, the High Medicine Hospital. You can organize them immediately and prepare them for the future.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0042par0222	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0041par0223	Yes, one of the most important measures, of course, is to keep the distance between people in terms of fighting the coronavirus. But against it, countries should be close and united. Yes, the world is greater than five, but five countries shouldn't make every decision about the world, but Turkey is greater than one. For some reason, one person and the representatives of a party around him make decisions by pretending there are no opposition. It's no big deal to say that the Turkish Grand National Assembly is in shape, we haven't established a research review commission on a pandemic declared. Of course, economic, social measures are at the head of measures that need to be taken due to the Coronavirus. Our members of the Plan and Budget Commission called for a meeting of the Commission, but the Plan and Budget Commission could not meet. The House has a residency commission, Health, Family, Labor and Social Affairs Commission. This Commission, however, did not meet with the coronavirus agenda, did not take responsibility, did not receive the opinion of political parties, not having the group present in parliament.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0042par0226	Let's move on.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0041par0227	He didn't listen to unions, rooms, associations, democratic mass organizations, just like the government. We need a common mind. This common mind, at the same time, will make everyone part of this struggle. Don't let anyone see you in your giant mirror. Yes, 60 years ago, this country was producing vaccines -- this was being closed by the government -- this was being done, and viral vaccines -- but now, no one expects Turkey to find a vaccine against the coronavirus, no one expects Turkey to find a cure for the coronavirus. But let's wait for a healthy quarantine environment, wait for the number of tests that can be applied to 2,000 people a week to increase. I assure you, if the government hadn't put security policies at the center of everything, if it hadn't spent billions of dollars on the S-400, if human health and education were at the center of the investment, we wouldn't be so nervous today. I say that the masks, which are ten cents apiece, would not be sold for 8 TL, nor for 5 TL, nor for 40 TL, but would be provided for by public resources, and I salute the assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0042par0229	Vice President of the Republican People's Party Group Free Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0043par0232	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the March 18th victory of Çanakkale and the Memorial Day of Canakkale Martyrs, the 105th anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale, which has changed the course of our country and the history of the world. The great struggle of the people of Anatolia with its cannon, its blood and its life, is one of the most important victories, one of the most important events of the history scene of the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, a great military genius, a very powerful statesman. The Çanakkale Victory, which we view as a turning point in the process leading to the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, is also an epic epic by changing the course of World War I. Following this epic, under the guidance of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, our people, who have begun the struggle for salvation against imperialism and have managed to form an independent state, have been an example to the oppressed and oppressed people of the world. Today, once again, I remember the honorable struggle of the people of Anatolia in the victory of Çanakkale, which changed the course of history, at the 105th anniversary of March 18, Çanakkale Victory, and on Memorial Day of the Martyrs, at the mercy, gratitude and respect of our martyrs who sacrificed their lives in the rescue of our homeland. Mr. President, the public administration has taken some measures regarding those with chronic illness, some measures we find correct. The General Assembly of Presidential Affairs, dated March 13, 2020, envisions that employees over 60 years of age and over the position of disabled workers, executives, including those with immune problems, cancer patients, chronic respiratory patients, obesity, diabetes, heart disease, organ transplants, and other chronic diseases -- from March 16th, they are considered administrative leave for 12 days.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0044par0237	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0043par0238	After that, some institutions reported problems. People are looking for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as a solution point, as a place to announce their voices, but today we have heard that this problem has occurred in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and we find it unacceptable. We regretfully followed a number of statements that were called in, forced to receive reports again, that they were being reminded that they would be relieved of the annual leave of year 2021, or that they might even be excluded from their leave of year 2021. I'm hoping you'll be able to follow this matter as the Presidential Court, give the relevant staff a statement that will comfort them, and alert the staff who did this unfair procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0044par0240	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0043par0241	While following the Coronavirus epidemic, the World Health Organization, as we watched the Ministry of Health in our mouths, the first news of our loss came yesterday, and our first citizen who died was a colleague, a professional elder. I'd like to express my condolences to the family from here once again, as well as to the head of the entire pharmaceutical community, the health community. Mr. President, today we watched a presentation of the World Health Organization at our headquarters with our medical friends and our Central Board of Directors, and we exchanged views. Like all over the world, they described health workers as the biggest risk group in Turkey. We need to take precautions on this, but one thing's for sure, we'll all be victims, the most medics will be victims.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0044par0244	Go ahead, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0043par0245	Let's hope the numbers don't go up, but as the death toll goes up, it looks like there's gonna be a lot of paramedics here, again. Our House is working on it. We'd like to repeat a call we made yesterday. All the medics had a common demand, and they canceled their rally last Sunday to fight the corona; they would come to parliament this week, they would shout out their demands. All health workers, 14 occupational organisations, have joint demands to prevent an unacceptable phenomenon called health violence. These are waiting on the relevant commissions, they've been offered legislation on this issue, by the medics of all parties. Now, when our council is open, we would like to propose, once again, a gesture that will surely answer the expectations of health workers, our love for them, our respect for them, the passing of this law that shows that we stand behind them.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0044par0247	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0043par0248	Mr. President, there are also a number of issues that are extremely uncomfortable in connection with each other, and from different parties, our Deputy Group Presidents have also expressed. In particular, yesterday's footage by a citizen showed that Turkish police had been illegally used by illegal orders and later been subjected to some unjust criticism, before a privileged person was somehow removed from quarantine and went into quarantine. The citizen made this video, and this video shows, unfortunately, this is the face of the iceberg. We're warning the Home Secretary one more time about this. Without such applications, public personnel, especially our security forces, must be taken the necessary measures not to be used. This also leads to a very dangerous point, such as when you have money, where you have no quarantine.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0044par0250	I can't say last word to you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0043par0251	Well, I'll tell you again, Mr. President. Mr. President, let me tell you, there's also a meeting today in Chankaya Mansion where the whole of Turkey is staring. Now, the ministers who attended that meeting, Communications President Fahrettin Altun, journalists following that meeting, and Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, chairman of the Justice and Development Party -- in the days to be carried out -- have all come together from Brussels. Now, 14 days is important to the citizen. I hope, I hope, that in this meeting, I expect these people to have no contact with each other or any of the other people. Or there are journalists from Brussels who come from Çankaya to gather people today... who follow Fahrettin Altun, the ministers, the President, the president; they have no rules for 14 days, the citizens. It'll destroy everything. I hope there are different cameras in different rooms, glass partitions, interference measures. I've been trying to get this information through alternate channels. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May God grant us all plenty to talk about tomorrow, Mr. President. My last word and final approach is this: On the one hand, Burhan Lamb, I answered the call for Zindashti, believing in his injury. I do these things, I've done them a lot. He says. God knows who he did it to, but his testimony for Zindashti on the surface of the iceberg is terrible. On the other hand -- there are rumors coming from everywhere, video-recorded -- exclusive, VIP, CIP apps that try to break quarantine measures, and on the other hand, we have the minister of a structure that has come up with a constitutional amendment that means regimen -- today he's running the measures -- all the way to the end. As a party, we share videos taken by an EC PARTY minister with millions of users. We refuse categorical dissolution, we say: we need to get past the divisions, the polarizations, and if we don't, we can't protect 83 million. On the one hand, like the Union of Turkish Medicines, all the doctors' elected representatives are categorically pushed and their proposals are rejected and left up in the air; this is not happening. If we don't push the Minister of Health, the Minister of Health won't push the elected executives of health and professions, they won't be pushed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My final word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0045par0258	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0043par0259	You can't take the breakups from the past and shove the pharmacist's representative, the doctor's representative, the nurse's representative, the nurse's representative -- all elected people. He signed here in the past. We're talking about the coronavirus, and you've signed what you've done in the past, and we're saying now is not the time to talk about them. So, no one push anyone, no one rub anyone, categorically separate them. According to the world view, the descendants of those who lie shoulder to shoulder in Çanakkale, not according to his position, must stand shoulder to shoulder today. No one's asking such a question, sir, to categorically reject anyone, sir, to not answer that question, not to make an appointment, not to put their hands up... I've heard, they say: let's run this crisis together. The rejection of this offer will be a great responsibility tomorrow. I wish us all a healthy day, and our country a half of which we will never hear of death again, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0045par0261	Vice President of the Justice and Development Party, Cahit Özkan. Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0046par0264	Thank you, Mr. President. On March 18, 1915, the Day of the Canakkale Victory and the Memorial of Martyrs is the name of this blessed nation's struggle against the imperialists who seek to expel our glorious advent from this land, our beloved nation. Blessed be our victory, and blessed be the soul of our martyrs. Of course, Çanakkale, this blessed, holy nation is the embodiment of all the glorious myths that have been given throughout history. Because it is the name of this nation's glorious victory over seven heifers against the imperialists who attacked this land, leaving all their differences aside, with Kurdish, Turkish, Lazkı, Çerçe, Alevi, and Sunni, and with seventy-two heifers, that it has revealed its consciousness to be a nation. It is the name of the victory of this holy nation, when it comes to our holy, our country, our flag, and our state, that is the name of this great nation, that has run to the top of the great martyrs with all its differences. For him, in the 105th year of this blessed victory, I remember our glorious sacrifice, which entrusted this land to us, to the glory of our government, to the glory of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his fellow soldiers, our martyrs, with mercy, with gratitude, with gratitude, with gratitude; and may their souls rest in peace, and their dwellings be in heaven. Yes, in a different struggle that our country has fought again, on the stand of the nation, in our Veteran Assembly, we're discussing different topics. For him, we have complete faith that if we have succeeded, we will succeed in this, just as we have talked about them in unity and unity as we have in our history. No one can doubt it.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0047par0268	Go ahead, please.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0046par0269	In this regard, by God's permission, we are determined to overcome the process with minimal damage, without damage. May our citizens rest in peace. With our government's struggle, with our nation's attention, if the decisions, the steps, the directives laid out, in solidarity with our nation, hopefully, we'll be able to eliminate this coronavirus plague as soon as possible. First of all, our government's struggle with the coronavirus began yesterday, not today, because the coronavirus case may have been seen as an epidemic that began in Wuhan in December, but it wasn't there until yesterday, with our republic's governments and with the city hospitals and health infrastructure that we put up during the EC PARTI administrations. Otherwise, it's impossible to achieve success today, starting with the incident with the coronavirus. Unfortunately, this is the problem that old Europe is facing, especially Italy, which is a lack of infrastructure.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0047par0272	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0046par0273	In this sense, we are among the best countries in Europe and in the world, as well as with technical infrastructure. Hopefully, we'll get through this without having a health problem with the intervention of our necessary health workers. Of course, the work of the Science Council yesterday, not today... we tried to express it on occasion yesterday. See, after the outbreak began in December in Wuhan, the World Health Organization received surveillance, while Turkey began to make its decisions on January 22nd, when it had taken steps in simultaneous time. In particular, the study, which began with China (Chinese) on January 22nd, beginning with the closing of borders and doors, with the introduction of flight restrictions to troubled areas, followed by Iran (23 February), continued with European countries on February 29th, and, praise be to God, today, we are among the first 10 chapters in 120 world countries with the least number of cases.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0047par0276	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0046par0277	At this point, there's only one thing we need to do, as a group of political parties, in unity and unity, in accordance with the directives, in accordance with the decisions of the Science Council, without defying the dark dreams of those who are concerned. First, by paying attention to this sensitivity to our Parliament, which has made these decisions, both our government, our ministers, and our administrative organization, as well as this legal arrangement, hopefully, we will walk with the most successful results in all of our country's -- Edirne, from Kars, from the four corners of our country. Of course, at this point, I'd like to share a few statistics that will comfort our citizens.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0047par0279	Go ahead, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0046par0280	See, there have been countries around the world that have different results when countries who are fighting the corona virus have both infrastructure deficits and economic concerns rather than human life. Some have passed on human life, prioritized the economy, faced the situation in which Italy has fallen; one has tried to apply the herd immune system at this point rather than fight because of its lack of infrastructure. Look, we, with discipline, believe that we can achieve our goal by obeying the decisions made by the Science Council to the letter. These statistics are important: there have been 81 thousand cases in China, while only 3,200 deaths have occurred, and 70 thousand people -- 80 percent of cases have been treated. There have been 24,000 cases in Italy, 1,800 deaths, and 2,335 people have been treated, so around 6 per cent are sadly facing death. In our country, hopefully -- close to the zero point of this place -- we believe that we will succeed if we follow our fight in the solidarity of 82 million, in the spirit of unity.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0047par0282	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0046par0283	And finally, of course, we don't find the expression from here, of course, about the presidential government system, about the nation and the national will to my reegory very accurate because we will believe in democracy. Democracy is the name of the regime, which, as it says on our wall of Congress, is based on the nation's sovereignty, the direction that the nation has set in its direction. At this point, the presidential government system has been made by the Constitutional Amendment, which the nation has decided, and this decision that the nation has made, this constitutional order that we, as lawmakers, have sworn allegiance. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yes, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0047par0286	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0046par0287	At this point, the Constitution is our flag, our country, our nation, our state, whatever it is that holds us in the fight against the coronavirus, and the ways to change it are written in the Constitution. At this point, I believe we should be united and united in fighting the coronavirus. 82 million, leaving our differences aside, as in the spirit of Çanakkale. That day, in Çanakkale, our Mehmet-chik, what did our acolyte do? I believe that we will reach the goal if we fight in accordance with our glorious history, as the Sheriff Bacı ▪, whose political views, differences, religion, religion, religion, ethnicity, old youth, even the blanket over his child, and who, in the spirit of national unity, is enshrouding the ammunition and marching to the enemy on the front. I wish you a good, successful work, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0048par0290	I need a minute, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0049par0291	You asked for a minute, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0048par0293	Mr. President, it's not for a polemic, but, of course, when some numbers are given, it can be misunderstood if we leave it unresponsive or non-responsive in our line of work. Now, between Turkey and OECD, there are only nine countries, which are worse than us. For example, there are 17 beds in Japan, 14 in Korea, and we're in 2.8 and the worst of it, so there's hope, there's a success, there's... there's a lot of beds up there. Secondly, God forbid I should create a weakness like this, but I have to say it with a health care sense and discretion: there were three cases in Italy on the first day; there were 3 cases in Italy; there were 3 cases in Italy; there were 5 in Turkey on the third day; on the 5th day in Italy, there were 21 in Italy; there were 18 in Italy; on the 6th day it was 21 in Italy; it was 47 in us; on the 7th day it was 28 in Italy; it was 96 in Italy; it was 96 in Italy; and now it was 30,000 in Italy; it was 30,000 cases on the 30 in Italy.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0049par0295	Let's move on, please.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0048par0296	So from these numbers, Italy is very bad, we're very good. Instead of saying, "Well, we're very good." Our logarithmic increase is very similar to that of Italy's logarithmic growth. Today, we were not able to become a highly respected professor of the Science Council, South Korea, but let's try not to be Italy. No matter what measures are taken, no matter what happens to all of us, it's too soon to draw an optimistic picture and be optimistic about the decision-making. Let's hope we live in one death, hope the case stays here, but that's not the direction of the curve. Let's be careful, let's take more precautions. Whatever measures are taken, we must have taken that precaution before the day of Italy. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0049par0300	Congressmans, Mr. Special has just voiced some legitimate concerns about the state of the House staff. On the subject, I'd like to present to you the information we received from our Secretary General of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: On March 13, 2020 of the Parliamentary Presidency, due to the new type of coronavirus pandemic, the Ministry of Health has decreed that those with immunization issues, cancer patients, chronic respiratory patients, obesity and diabetes patients, heart vascular disease, organ transplants, and those involved in the disadvantaged groups of chronic patients were declared to be administrative permits for 12 days from March 2020 to 2020, and the same issue was announced to the staff by the General Secretary General's announcement. In this framework, the disadvantaged groups set by the Ministry of Health are allowed to manage patients with immune problems, cancer patients, chronic respiratory patients, obesity and diabetes patients, heart vessels patients, patients with organ transplants and chronic diseases. As for those who are outside these groups and who are seeking permission, it is made easy for them to ask permission. The General Assembly will be informed. Let's move on to the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The good party has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Wednesday 18/3/2020 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. The extraordinary conditions, along with the outbreak of the outbreak of the Coronavirus, have increased demand for food and health products in the community by İzmir MP and Group Deputy President Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu. Some people who try to turn a public crisis into an opportunity are victimizing our citizens and hurting their public conscience by giving unfair and unfair increases to certain crop groups. It has been suggested that the motion for parliamentary investigation of all goods and products, especially food and health products, to be accessible by all sections of society, which are needed during the epidemic, by a group of opportunistic commercial lobbys, should be passed ahead of other motions on Wednesday (18/3/2020), in order to make it available to Turkey's Grand National Assembly. İstanbul MP Abdul Ahat Andican on behalf of the PARTI Group to explain the reason for the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Andican.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0050par0320	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I also celebrate the 105th anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale, and convey my compassion and gratitude to all our martyrs, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. The Corona epidemic is growing in our country. We all know what the Minister of Health gave us last night. We've lost 98 patients and 1 patients -- one of our citizens. Do these numbers show the actual condition of the disease? That's the question. It doesn't show because these numbers are the exact number of people the disease has emerged from. However, no one has any knowledge of the actual spread of the disease in terms of patients who have not been exposed or infected with the virus, and therefore the spread of the disease. Just today, a member of the Scientific Committee said that only 20 per cent of the patients were applying to health centers. That means that 80% of patients continue to infect outside. Last night, the president of the World Health Organization described in three words the way to understand the true dimensions of the disease and to prevent the spread of it. In other words, you do not have the means to treat or prevent it unless you can diagnose it. There are two methods for diagnosis, which have been spoken here for several days, but no one has mentioned this aspect of the issue. There are two ways. The polymerase chain reaction test, called PCR, is very accurate, but the problem is that we need an experienced staff, a laboratory, infrastructure, and it needs time. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Turkey has not been able to give a successful test since the event began, my friends. He should have authorized all university labs for this test, but Ankara has only one centre. So when the patient has applied, material will be taken from him, sent to Ankara, and come from Ankara to diagnose him, while the patient will continue to spread outside, from İzmir, or from another city. So, when he realized that it couldn't be prevented, that it was going to take a more severe situation, he changed his mind this time, and he took it up to six centers, and when he saw that it wasn't enough, you'll remember it two days ago -- he took it to 16 centers, but these centers are not yet operational. The second method of testing is a rapid test kit. As far as the Chinese are concerned, this can come to fruition even after 15 minutes. But in the Western world, about three hours before the outbreak began, this test was able to produce results; it is successfully implemented in South Korea. Unfortunately, the Ministry failed the exam and failed. How? As soon as the incident started, this rapid diagnostic test had to be imported and stored -- since we couldn't make it ourselves -- that couldn't be done. Isn't that five minutes, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0051par0326	Sir, you go ahead.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0050par0327	As of February 11th, the Ministry said this test was made. He said they did, but yesterday's information shows that the Ministry's claims about the rapid diagnostic kit are not true. Hospitals have been given five kits, and patients are only tested after they've been diagnosed. Of course, if you remember that Turkey's only vaccine and serum-producing centre, the Refik Saydam Hifzishaha Institute, was closed in 2011, the import vaccine was cheaper. You can't expect this concept to invest in a test production centre for viral outbreaks. Now, dear friends, the process was well directed. It's called.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0051par0330	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0050par0331	So we need to remember that the government, which was well-run, continued the prayer until almost February 27th, when Saudi Arabia stopped it. In the beginning, we need to remember that he sent the returnees to the entire country without any inspections, and the latest groups, particularly on criticisms from social media, are under so-called quarantine. There's one more fact that all these developments have shown us, my friends. The public is fighting epidemics, not the private sector; I'd like to emphasize that. Two days ago, Spain nationalized all hospitals in order to fight the plague. Thus, the urban hospitals, which were introduced as projects of the age, were unable to see any function in this work. Finally, there's something I'd like to bring to the attention of the House work, my friends. Yesterday, there was a report in the Hurriyet newspaper, where the President's entire environment was tested for coronavirus and continued to be passed; it's normal.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0052par0335	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0050par0336	We also know that those who approach the President are monitored by thermal cameras. Now, for the next two weeks, they've been friends for the two best weeks of spreading. If we're going to run the House at a time like this, I think it's necessary for lawmakers from all over the country to make one-on-one contact with voters and travel through airports with airplanes to be subjected to a periodic test like this, folks. If not, it has nothing to do with patriotism or heroism, my friends, in such a risky period and in the environment, to carry on the work of the House, so that the government can pass the bag laws dictated by parliament. I'm saying that by interviewing the Ministry of Health of Parliament, we should start the study on testing, which means testing the MPs today, and I'd like to give you my regards.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0053par0340	Our second speaker is Murat Çepni, İzmir MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Mr. Chepni, please.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0054par0343	Thank you, Mayor. The General Assembly and our valued people, yes, we're in a critical time and we're trying to deal with a virus epidemic that we're not used to, that we're not prepared for. Of course, this process, in fact, is the process of fighting, which line, which way and how we approach this process, is also the turnusol paper. At this time, President, AKP President Erdogan is making statements, we haven't heard all of them yet, but I'd like to read you a few headlines: we have a goal to keep the economy alive. When things are starting to work out, we're never gonna let go. Opportunities await us if we get out of the process safely. With patience and prayer, we will overcome this process. Here we are, discussing a virus that has caused the world's problems and has caused huge human casualties, and in Turkey, the president of the country's speech is rapidly spreading the virus, keeping the economy alive, praying and coming out of the process, and saying that great opportunities are standing in front of us. Now, this is exactly the kind of process where the public needs the most basic needs, the hygiene needs, the health needs. Because there's a process of chaos, there's a risk that people are going out on the street, and people are being called out on the street, and we're dealing with people's problems with healthy housing, healthy nutrition, healthy hygiene. So in this process, are we going to look at the issue as a random, economic development, or are we going to look at it as a public health? That's where the President's approach leads us to complete chaos. It's the days when a product that is acquired for $3 goes up to $15, $20; when a $5 hygiene product is sold for $40, $50, $60. Therefore, the government, the state, must take very serious measures against these opportunistic trends. Of course, in the beginning, the power itself shouldn't be taking the initiative to these issues. So I want to end by saying that in the conditions where we deal with the virus today, where we're dealing with the virus, and we're dealing with the virus, the power, for example, is able to start construction at Lake Salda, for example, and it can demonstrate such opportunism, so power actually -- we've already said it, we're dealing with a public health problem -- we're dealing with a public health problem. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm picking it up.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0055par0349	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0054par0350	So we suggest that all of our people from here take their own precautions, first of all, scientists, follow and heed the calls of the Turkish Medical Association. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0055par0353	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Balıkesir MP Fikret Şahin. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0056par0356	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Today is March 18th. On the 105th anniversary of our victory in Çanakkale, I'd like to begin with the honor and gratitude of all of them, including Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, his comrades, our saints' martyrs and veterans. Yes, our subject, of course, is the pandemic of the coronavirus. We're taking precautions, but I'd like to share with you here some of the information I've received from our colleagues from the field, and the necessary measures. Now, yesterday, the Ministry of Health issued a statement about the postponement of elective operations and police examinations, but it's not clear that normal cases still have to apply to hospitals, where your friends have to do intensive polyclinics, while you're downstairs doing a polyclinic, and there's a lot of reports from the field that coronavirus patients are being treated in intensive care, which is obviously not what I'm hearing. For this, I would like to announce again that the measures necessary for our citizens not to resort to the police unless it is urgent. On the other hand, other than the coronavirus, of course, we have citizens with chronic diseases. These may have urgent treatments. There should also be planning for such patients, which hospital in the province should be determined now and that citizens who need urgent treatment due to their chronic illness should be admitted to a hospital in the province or something. I think it should be announced now. Again, the number of cases associated with the corona epidemic and the increase in application for emergency services should be considered as an emergency action plan. Especially when it comes to planning the working conditions of healthcare workers, because at the next stage, the number of cases will increase exponentially, so we're moving on to treatment, and health workers need to be rested now. If necessary, health workers must be prepared for more busy working days ahead of schedule. 3,000 health workers in China have suffered from this disease, and 22 have been lost, I'm afraid. Once again, the most risky group is health workers, and these health workers must be provided for from now on. I'd like to share this with you here. Our fellow physicians -- especially our fellow physicians in intensive care -- say they need the mask; N5, N99 to the mask; on top of that, again, they need surgical masks; astronaut overalls, protective glasses, facial shielding, gloves, alcohol, hand sanitizers, paper towels -- but given the fact that these materials are already in store, I would like to warn the authorities that they need to be stocked here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I need a minute.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0057par0365	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0056par0366	Besides, we're very low on respiratory support in intensive care, particularly ventilation. Other countries, when this was open, gave different companies some advice on the production of respirators, and I'd like to remind them from here. Again, I'd like to say that the medications that will be used in the ICU are of great use in stockpiling as of today. In order for the community to lose the panic atmosphere and to approach the epidemic more calmly, the public needs to be informed correctly, so I would advise the Health Minister here again: please report the cases daily, just as they are in the World Health Organization; let them report correctly, and let our citizens see. Again, it should also be avoided from the publications that broadcast away from scientific ground, leading citizens to panic. At this time, we expect a sense of media publishing. Again, the opportunists must not be given any time, and if necessary, the punishments must be increased during this period, I wish you all a healthy day. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0058par0370	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Here you go, Mr. Meatball.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0059par0373	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the very high-value lawmakers on the recommendation of a good party, and I salute you all. As I begin with my words, first I remember our sainted martyrs who drank the witness without blinking, especially in Çanakkale, for the sake of our country and nation, on March 18th, Martyrs' Day, with mercy and respect, celebrating the 105th anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale. Dear MPs, the new coronavirus, which emerged in the second week of December in Wuhan, China, which resulted in a disease called Covid-19, unfortunately, has now covered 125 countries. Around 200,000 people around the world have been diagnosed with the virus and about 8,000 have died, while 83,000 have been cured by treatment. Dear lawmakers, work as a state to keep the virus's interest in our country at a minimum is being carried out day and night, with all kinds of ideas and suggestions being considered. The measures taken are adopted and implemented by solution-oriented approaches. From the very first moment of the emergence of this virus that scorches the world, under the leadership of our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our government has taken the necessary measures, especially our Minister of Health, and has been trying to prevent the virus from entering our country for 90 days. From the very first moment, the Health Science Council has been established, the necessary measures for the virus and all the developments in the world have been closely monitored. China, Iran, has been immediately imposed on countries such as Iran, and is now imposed on 20 countries. Our citizens who returned from Umre and were brought to our country from abroad are welcome in our homes under the rule of the rule for the health of our nation for ten or four days. Dear lawmakers, in regard to the test center a friend of ours has just expressed, five central testing centers have continued until yesterday, while 12 counties and 12 centers have participated in this issue as of yesterday's decision and are now in the service. In İstanbul, 7, Erzurum, İzmir, Ankara, Adana, Samsun, Antalya, Bolu, Kütahya, Çorum, Kayseri, Sivas, these test centers were presented to the service of our nation. Our government and the Ministry of Commerce have been working carefully within the framework of the Science Council's decision co-ordinated with other ministries during this process. Our Ministry has taken the necessary precautions regarding recent developments in medical supplies and food prices, particularly masks and gloves. Our ministry, which does not give the opportunists a moment's notice, also implements all forms of criminal action to the irregularities that are detected daily by making the necessary inspections. Under the measures taken by our Ministry of Agriculture, there is no shortage of production, stock and supply chains of basic food products in the coming period.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0060par0379	Complete.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0059par0380	There are also sufficient products in the stockpile of the Earth's Harvest Office, which will provide for the needs of the feeders, growers, industry and consumers. On the other hand, our Ministry of Justice continues its fight against new coronavirus in the legal framework, as it tries to alarm our beloved nation, provocative and false information sharing. It has to be known that as all our institutions have followed the measures taken around the world, they have analyzed the predictions to be set up, mapped their own routes against possible scenarios, and have taken the necessary measures. Dear lawmakers, as state and nation, the fight against the new coronavirus continues in an extremely transparent, decisive and rational way. The sensitivity of our citizens at every stage of the struggle encourages us to fight. The measures we're taking are bigger than the new coronavirus. My request from our people is that our government and our Ministry of Health will be sensitive to their statements and not honor any further explanations. I salute our High Council.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0061par0386	I submit to you the recommendation of the good party: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on Wednesday 18/3/2020 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. On 16 March 2020, Batman MP Mehmet Rütü Tiryaqi and his friends offered 5863 rows to the parliament's motion to investigate the problems of the coronavirus epidemic to the Grand National Assembly on Wednesday (18/3/2020). To explain the motive of the proposal, Ağrı MP Abdullah Koç is on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Coach.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0062par0400	Mr. President, it's a pity that the number of people who were killed in December was 190,152, and the number of people who were killed was 7,954, which appeared in Wuhan, China in December and spread over 170. In Turkey, the number of cases identified is 98, which unfortunately includes the death of one person. Unfortunately, we carry concern that the number of cases that have been reached does not really reflect the facts. According to the Justice Department's 2020 data, a total of 280,703 prisoners in 355 prisons have reached a high level of hail in prisons that has never been seen in history. The number of people in the wards is far above capacity. In prisons, conditions are extraordinary. Inadequate diet, unheated or air-conditioned wards are also extremely dangerous because of the use of sunlight, the lack of sufficient health care staff and physicians, the long duration of examinations and sets, the sale of hygiene products, the lack of access to clean and hot water, and the use of regular and effective health care, and so on. In March 2016, in a general article titled "Security Measures Against Escapes" by showing the truth of an escape in Diyarbakir district in 2016, the restrictions on the removal of pull-off stems, the collection of cleaning goods such as buckets, garbage baskets, basins, and in this sense are even more vulnerable in the face of this epidemic, so these items that are directly related to hygiene and health rights should not be stored in the cells and wards. According to the Human Rights Association's 2019 Report, there are 1,334 sick prisoners in Turkey who are heavy in punishment and execution institutions. In 2019, 50 patients, at least 3,502 patients in the last 17 years, were killed because they were not released due to the conditions in which they were hosted. 850 children, who have to stay in prisons with their mother, are in danger from the lives of nearly 300,000 prisoners over the age of 65. In response to the risk of Covid-19, emergency access to the hospital is a fact that prisons do not have plans for how such conditions can be achieved and how possible emergency responses can be done. In May 2019, the riots of prisons will be inevitable, as in Italy, if it takes months for the prisoners to be sent to the hospital and not to be treated for hunger strike in prison. Due to their hunger strikes, their long-term strike has left them with a low-resistant and open risk. Members of parliament, under the state's obligation to keep you alive, it is necessary for arrested sick prisoners and women over 65 years of age, mothers, pregnant or with their children, political prisoners and journalists to be released immediately on the day of trial or detention evaluations, to be stopped and released from the execution of convicted persons, as well as for other prisoners, to be subjected to general health examinations and health screenings on the grounds of the coronavirus and international standards. Basic principles in the rehabilitation of prisons -- Mandela Rules, medical ethics, European Council Committee on European Prison Rules No. 2 of the Council of Ministers. We demand that a parliamentary research commission be established in accordance with our proposal to obtain equal access to the medical care available to those who have not been closed across the country, regardless of their legal status and standard, according to the lu Advice Decision. Therefore, the House feels the need to support our research proposal and prevent more dire environments, and I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0063par0408	Aksaray MP Ayhan Erel... Here you go, Mr. Erel.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0064par0410	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the great Turkish nation of Çanakkale, the Conkbayir, the Anafartas, the 57th Regiment, the martyrs are 15, the Gallipolis, the bullets that fight in the air, the 6,000 bullets that fall in the square, the thought of not going back. There are thousands of true stories in Çanakkale, and I want to share one of them with you here: behind the trenches, the wounded soldiers needed morphine. The doctors were having trouble finding painkillers for the soldiers, so they were keeping watch. A table was set up in front of the tent where the patients were prepped for surgery. The doctor was doing the first examination, giving morphine to the men he believed would survive if he was operated on, and not giving morphine to those who were unlikely to survive. The doctor didn't look at the patients' faces to avoid emotional decision-making, just by looking at the wound, he was giving painkillers to our wounded soldiers with a good chance of recovery. At the time, a soldier came in, and the doctor didn't give him morphine for the pain, in view that the soldier couldn't recover. At that time, a sigh was heard from that soldier, in the blood, and everyone's eyes were turned to a doctor, and the soldier who was writhing in wounds was the doctor's own son. However, the doctor does not give the painkillers to his son, and a few hours later, this soldier becomes a martyr. The doctor clings to the lifeless body of his son, the martyr, saying that morphine was not your right. Now, this land is built by those beautiful people who don't have the right to take a single pain medication from their son. March 18th, the victory of Çanakkale marks the 105th anniversary of the victory, and I give thanks to all our veterans, our martyrs, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who has made this holy land our homeland. Mr. President, it's impossible not to be affected no matter how much we hide in a violent storm, wind, storm, if we compare the corona virus that dominates the world. Therefore, it is very likely that our citizens, who are imprisoned in prisons, will be affected by this. In this context, without panic, it is necessary to act with discretion and complacentness, heeding the warnings of the relevant authorities and individuals, and we are monitoring the approach and work of the Minister of Health and the Minister of Justice in this regard.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0065par0414	Complete, please.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0064par0415	I wish and hope that authorities and relevant authorities will be able to address this problem in the future, taking into account the views here. In the resolution of this problem, I salute you all with the belief that the views here will be of considerable value.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0065par0418	Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Agha. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is three minutes, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0066par0422	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, before we get to the point, I'd like to bring to the attention of the House the allegations that Mustafa Koçak had expressed by his lawyers and his family in the death row in İzmir Şakran Prison. There are serious allegations that Mustafa Kokak, who started the death fast on charges of not having a fair trial, was subjected to severe torture. It is embarrassing for Turkey to even bring up such a claim at this time. The subcommittee of the Human Rights Commission must investigate these events by examining them in this prison; this is the most important task of the prison commission right now. The prison commission, unfortunately, operates from time to time only under the direction of political power, as it did in the past. Dear friends, I don't mean to be arrogant or arrogant, but if there are a few people in this House, the High Council, who know about the prison, I'd like to say that one of them is me. Now, as the Republican People's Party prison commission, we visited about 250 prisons, and for the first time in the House, we probably wrote a report on sick prisoners. Without regard to the language, religion, race, political opinion of the sick prisoners, we have prepared a patient report with our current Deputy Group Chairman, our beloved Free Special and Mughla MP Nurettin Demir. And we have submitted it to the public's attention. Dear friends, prison psychology is the hardest place. A sick man's psychology is heavier than a sick man's. And when both prison and disease come together, we'll let you know how heavy psychology can be. Now, there are 355 prisons in Turkey, 282,000 prisoners, they entered through the court. And then there's the prisoners who took the test, so the death guard and the staff, they're 70 grand. According to the Human Rights Association's statement at the moment, there are 1,333 patients in prison, 459 (459) who are seriously ill. He's in prison for nearly a thousand children because of his mother's punishment. Dear friends, I would especially like to bring to your attention that all of the prisoners in prison... have come to the attention of something that AKP has said, which unfortunately has not been able to bring to Parliament, an execution arrangement or a reduced sentence. Thousands of prisoners are being manipulated by their parents' feelings. We're calling in an open call here: if you're going to bring it, bring it to the agenda of this House, and we say, let's discuss it here, dear friends. Please, don't play with the feelings of prisoners and families. Again, dear friends, there are a lot of problems in prison. There's a concentration in prisons, which is, like, people are lying in shifts and even breathing in shifts. We've seen 30, 40, 50 people, even 80 people sleep in the wards of 20 people. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm just finishing up.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0067par0430	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0066par0431	Again, dear friends, they have such hygiene issues, it's incredible. Dear friends, I'm afraid it's illegal in the prisons today for all of us to use cologne and germ-killing alcohol. You can't put cologne in prisons. I want to leave it to your discretion how these people will clean their hands, how they will live in hygiene. Now, there are two toilets where 50 or 60 people are lying, dear friends, here water is limited, hot water and cold water is limited. So this needs to be resolved as soon as possible. Are open prisons different? Open prisons are worse than closed prisons. The people there are lying on top of each other. We see a variety of diseases happening from time to time. Look, the doctor's not enough. What should be done, dear friends? Patient prisoners must be evacuated immediately. You know, when you released the Sivas killer with a report, believing in science, trusting in science, science must be put on trial. The prisoners he calls out must be evacuated. The mothers who stay with her child must be suspended, and those who are elderly or in need of someone else's care -- many prisoners who need someone else's care -- must be evacuated.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0067par0434	Complete, please.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0066par0435	We agree that this research commission should be established, and there must be a research commission on prisons. Unfortunately, during the AKP period, the arrest became a punishment. We all know that just recently -- three years ago, when he had never been arrested -- our fellow journalists from Oda TV, New Age and New Life were arrested. I especially think that prisoners should be held out of prison until they get a conviction. I support the establishment of this research commission, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0067par0437	Hatay MP Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0068par0440	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the People's Democratic Party group proposal, and I salute your grand delegation. On the 105th anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale, I say to our saintly martyrs who wrote the legend of Çanakkale on the golden pages of Turkish history in holy blood, our heroic veterans, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his comrades, are blessed and blessed. The World Health Organization is calling the coronavirus "Covid-19," and there are currently no countries not seen on a global scale. There's a lot of caution, a lot of awareness. As the state of the Republic of Turkey, all our ministries, institutions and organisations, especially our Ministry of Health and Science Board, have taken serious public health protection measures. The key results of the early struggle and measures are reflected. In recent explanations, a citizen of 89 years of age has passed away, and I ask God's mercy. 98 of our patients have tested positive, and I pray God to heal our patients immediately. Hopefully, the coronavirus does not become more widespread, following the recommendations and protection measures of our national health ministry, but the measure is always stronger than the corona virus, and let's not forget that. We have serious measures taken in the criminal execution institutions regarding the original coronavirus of the group's proposal. Coronavirus first appeared in Wuhan, China, in December 2019, causing deaths in most countries. On the rise of the number of cases seen in our country, all state prosecutors of the Republic have been instructed to take measures to prevent contagion in criminal execution institutions, starting without wasting time. In addition to the decisions of the Health Ministry Science Council, there are necessary checks regarding hygiene and disinfection of criminal execution institutions as well as the presence of all personnel, visitors and convicted prisoners who have entered the institutions.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0069par0446	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0068par0447	In order to ensure that the measures are to be taken to the highest level, all vehicles, equipment, wards, halls, cafeterias, prison reception units, guest quarters, bathrooms and bathrooms, telephone huts, receivers, doorknobs, turnstiles and x-ray crossings, all other common use areas are monitored by ordering frequent airing closed environments. In all the wards, instructions have been given to provide bleach and personal cleaning materials, the use of gloves and masks in all partial and necessary searches of the criminal execution institutions, the awareness of prisoners and prisoners regarding the coronavirus, and to be co-ordinated with the municipal/ilical health departments for training, when any cases are seen within 14 days. The visits of convicted and imprisoned persons have been postponed for two weeks, with their rights reserved. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Since it's important, Mr. President, let me finish.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0069par0450	Yes, complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0068par0451	Again, in addition to visits to open and closed prisons, there is also a 15-day recess in the transport of prisoners and prisoners. In the meantime, in very special cases, opinions will be possible with the written permission of our state's attorney general. Again, special permissions for prisoners issued under Article 95 of the Law on the execution of Penalty and Security Measures No. 5275 are suspended for two weeks. Transfers of convicted and imprisoned persons outside of disease and security have been postponed again for two weeks. The maximum measures have been taken for the protection of all prisoners and personnel from the coronavirus, the removal of contamination. I present the situation to the knowledge of our great Parliament and of our beloved nation, wishing for healthy days, greetings and greetings, with the desire to get rid of the disease of the coronavirus quickly.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0070par0455	I put the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0071par0456	Mr. President, I'd like to share some information.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0070par0457	Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0071par0460	Mr. President, there have just been statements in the Supreme Court that the prisoner, Mustafa Kokak, who is appealing, has entered a death sentence and is investigating the conditions of the prison. In this framework, I have been promised to submit information from our General Directorate of Criminals and Inquisitors to the information of the General Assembly. Mustafa Koçak has been convicted of providing weapons in the murder of Mehmet Selim Kiraz, who was killed by the DHKP-C as the İstanbul Public Prosecutor's Office and has been sentenced to aggravated life in prison.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0070par0463	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0071par0464	He has been sentenced to aggravated life in prison for attempting to destroy constitutional order and has been held in prison and has been evaluated for appeal. The prison standards of the person concerned are in line with the standards set by the Council of Europe and by the constitutional rule of law. However, due to the fact that the person was on a death fast, he was also obliged to intervene under international contracts, and the person's condition is now stable. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0070par0466	Here you are, Mr. Tiryaki.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0072par0468	I'd like to say something about Mustafa Koçak. Now, Mr. President, Mustafa Koçak is a person who has been convicted only by the testimony of a confessor. In fact, the scream of Mustafa Koçak is a scream for all of us. The conviction of people based on confessional statements -- the conviction of people without any other evidence -- is a great injustice, a great injustice. That's what he screams for, or there's nothing else he wants. A person who wants a fair trial. That's the only reason for the death fast. Now, if we just take into account the confessional statements of the whole world, all of us, we have to accept the Justice and Development Party, its government, its power as a party that directly supports ISIS, its members, its rulers.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0070par0471	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0072par0472	Because there's a statement from the arrested ISID members. So we shouldn't condemn a person, a party, a group, just a confessional, and we should look at other things. We need to hear Mustafa Koçak's scream, and we must all call for a fair trial. Finally, I would also like to point out that they have statements of torture while being taken to the hospital, and there are statements here that I'm afraid to say that will not be said, and these are statements that their parents, their lawyers, share with the public. Please, let's not be silent about this screaming, the call to a mistrial and the call to a fair trial. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0073par0478	Congressmans, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Wednesday 18/3/2020 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. The meeting of the Council of Parliament (10/2618) main Parliamentary Research Charter (10/3/2020-2020) of Turkey's Parliamentary Council (18/2020-2020) on Wednesday (now) was proposed during the meeting of the General Assembly's 18/3/20. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Ali Şeker to explain the reason for the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0074par0490	Mr. President, congratulations on your mission. Before I begin my speech, I'd like to address the historical significance of today's day: March 18th... the great resistance in Çanakkale is today the day when the foundations of independent Turkey are laid. In the 105th year of the victory of Çanakkale, I am grateful for our martyrs, and in respect of their spirit, I say we should not be so divided about solving Turkey's real problems. As of last night, unfortunately, we lost our first casualty due to the coronavirus. I hope it doesn't, but what's happening in the world is showing us that this is a serious problem, and we have to fight it. And I bow before him, and ask God's mercy, and ask for patience unto his kinsmen, when he giveth mercy to the great man who died yesterday. Coronavirus, Covid-19, makes what we call SARS-2 disease. What is this? The severe respiratory distress is holding the lungs, and right now, 203,672 -- more than 200,000 patients in the world -- was not that much in the morning, but unfortunately now there are now more than 200,000, 203,672 patients. At 8,258, there is one person who died. This disease is growing rapidly, and it's a very serious problem. China has achieved an important success in solving this problem. Now that there are no new cases in China, there are very few sightings, and as the patients are rapidly recovering, the number of cases in Europe has rapidly exceeded China, and the number of dead in Europe, unfortunately, seems to be more and more. We asked for an extraordinary meeting on February 27, 2020, as opposition MPs who were commissioners of the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission. Unfortunately, Commissioner Senel Seven Yildıldız rejected our request on March 2nd. He said that he had no such assignment. He said that the Parliament Health Commission had a meeting only ten days later, as a result of our insistence on this matter. The delay in the request for this extraordinary meeting is a serious delay. It's no joke, with thousands of patients and deaths within hours. In this regard, the attitude of the press in particular is deeply distressed. No, you know, in South Korea, they spray you with saltwater in your mouth, 46 people get sick in the church. Someone says, "Let's eat our asses off." Someone says, "Unfortunately, if we eat our health commission president's syrup, nothing will happen." He made an unfortunate statement to the Anadolu Agency, the official agency. I'm protesting this from here one more time. Another person who defines himself as an expert in something says we have to eat eggplant against the virus. It is a shame on behalf of Turkey that these irrational and unscientific attitudes are displayed in public. Roosevelt says: "Learn from the mistakes of the presidents, the human doesn't live long enough to make all the mistakes himself. We say: There are experiences in the world related to this coronavirus disease, we need to take advantage of these experiences; we need to take advantage of China, Singapore, and South Korea, so that we can prevent the disease from increasing rapidly, like Italy, and not like Iran, a rapidly growing country like France. Our goal is to find out what a serious problem this trouble is, and in a total struggle and cooperation about it, but we think that it will be resolved, that it is not political day, but it is not supposed to be used to politics, and we think that there should be no dissolution. In the light of science, we must fight this battle. We must and must follow the scientific board's suggestions. We need to increase our combat capabilities. Our number of intensive care beds is 38 grand, but only 24 grand of it is adult intensive care, friends, and not all of these intensive care beds have ventilators, so we don't have enough ventilators for patients who need respiratory support. These defects need to be quickly repaired, the capacity to increase rapidly, because the disease is spreading rapidly, and we do not have the capacity to respond to this rapidly increasing health requirement. The Free President just told me that we're in the 9th place in the OECD. We have 2.8 sick beds for a thousand people. We're not in very good shape.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0075par0500	Let's move on, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0074par0501	Let's not hide the truth by saying we're very good, but we're going to face the truth. We'd like to prepare ourselves, take all precautions, so that these facts don't lead to a worse outcome. There's a very serious problem with health workers, one of the most infected areas is health workers. Paramedics need to stay healthy so they can distribute health to the public. We need to make arrangements on that, too. In terms of working patterns, infection, and non-infection, this is an adjustment of places to stay -- isolation, setting up quarantine hospitals, and I need to pay attention to these, and I want to say from here: let's get the law of violence out of health -- now enough, let's give moral support to health workers. I'd like to request that this motion for investigation be accepted as well. Research motions for measures related to the coronavirus, which three groups gave separately yesterday, were rejected. I'm saying no more politics today, no more politics, just do what you have to do. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0076par0506	On behalf of the Good PARTY Group, Isparta MP Aylin Gutsy. Here you go, Mr. Brave.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0077par0509	Congratulations, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0076par0510	Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0077par0511	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Humanity is going through a very difficult time. On behalf of the World Health Organization, he called it "pandemia." I'll call it the nightmare of the century in the world, if you'll excuse me. Corana has existed since the 1920s. This form, Covid-19, is a different form. It sticks to the surfaces. Although there is a difference in some publications, the average microbe is attached for about nine days. That's why hand sanitization and other precautions are recommended. Without realizing race, language, religion, continent, people over certain ages, the severe consequences of death, unfortunately, come to people with this virus. It's a new world. Actually, that's the problem. It's been seventy days since the world faced this nightmare, and now we have certain people who know, we have to act on those who know. First one to know, there's a lot of casualties. According to this, we need to take precautions. The discussion was unnecessary. As opposition MP, I'm not going to do that, and I'm not going to do that as a doctor. But as a doctor and a member of parliament representing the nation, we have to be very clear about our shortcomings and suggestions. The numbers are in the middle. There's absolutely no time to waste on political rants with words such as the least missing Turkey. We all have to open our ears and work out more than we've ever opened. Turkey's Grand National Assembly should take measures to come up with solutions, not politics. Unfortunately, the logarithm is going the same way, and when we look at some of the world's statistics, it's possible to see the same rates in Turkey all together. We don't have the drugs, we don't have the vaccine. It should be able to get over 300 million vaccines, which at best seems possible in the fall. Then we'll take precautions with the data we have, precious MPs. Are there enough precautions? It's not. Is there anything wrong? Yeah, there's something wrong. But they were Umrecists, and it was done like this, there's no time for arguments like strangers, not to even talk about them. We need to stop it where it is and stop the current number of cases and concentrate on their treatment. And our tests aren't enough. Italy is the greatest example of this. The least test, old patients, too much death; the opposite is South Korea, very early testing, young patients, little death. We have to take the necessary measures and reduce the rate of death and dispersion before we do a general test and realize the numbers in the early stages, before the cases hit the high risk group, so without making a pik. America is late. Turkey will be in the same situation if it does not begin to do so immediately today. I'd also like to present to you today's message from the World Health Organization, which says once again: "Test, test, test... Without delay." Yes, this is our key. Tests for more people. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0078par0518	Let's move on.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0077par0519	We're still not running the process properly. Quick diagnosis is essential for rapid isolation as well as preventing the spread of the disease, dear friends. With its current infrastructure, it's clear that public health labs can't afford it, can't afford it. Akredity increased the number of centers two days ago, but the Ministry and Science Council has not yet started working and should also spread to other provinces. Colleges want to study, physicians want to take care of the patient, but they can't or can't test whether the patient is covid or not because they're not allowed to. This needs to be implemented immediately. At a university hospital, unfortunately -- a confirmed information I just received -- a patient who's been in the ER for four days turned out to be positive. What happened for four days, God forbid... I'd like to say that the Science Board needs to change its definition of testing, its definition of testing immediately, it needs to expand, it needs to be able to be tested anywhere with more acretivity centers, of course, under the control of the Ministry. I told you the increase in cases is the same in all countries. If there's a sudden increase in cases, we can't afford to remove it; the number of intensive care beds, mechanical ventilators, and most importantly, the number of special-equipped medical staff who are in intensive care and run a ventilator.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0079par0526	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0077par0527	Thank you, Mayor. Why not? Because it can't be all over the world, it's a result that awaits all the countries of the world, its pandemic, its name. That's why it's a waste of time to go through all this with a defense. We have only one solution, and the simplest rule is, in fact, when deciding these solutions, when determining their own strategies, you have to determine them according to their social conditions in light of the data the world offers. The only way we can do it right now... is to get the word "Stay at home" out, but there's a lot of people staying at home and there's no one left at home. Social isolation is required to prevent the outbreak from reaching abnormal levels. You call it quarantine, I'll call it social isolation, but today we have to apply it, and we don't apply it here. We're dealing with a pandemic of a non-symptomist who travels in an average of five or six days, unaware, contagious, and infects a positive patient for twenty days, infecting an average of four. People have to stay in their homes, help the government and the rulers, and do exactly what they're suggesting, and I want to tell our nation from here. For all other political statements and speculations... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One sentence-- I'm so sorry, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0080par0532	Complete.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0077par0533	Thank you so much for your leniency. It's important, thank you very much. ▪ Everything done before a pandemic is perceived as "panic" and "alarmist." After the pandemic, everything that is done is considered inadequate. It says that a health minister said it in 2007. While I extend my love and respect to all of you, I invite our nation, everyone, to follow exactly what they're told in cooperation and fighting the corona. The most important rule is hands. We want you to follow the rules of disinfecting your hands very often and in a state of hygiene. Everyone that is possible needs to stay at home, make sure that people stay at home as long as the government can. Here, in fact, I think it's not safe for the House to work... the House should be open, of course, but -- we can postpone the tax law, we can postpone it for 15 days -- let's just talk about it if we're going to work, dear friends, let's talk about other pressing matters, like the law that needs to be passed to the health workers. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0081par0538	On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Antalya MP Kemal Bulbül... Here you go, Mr. Nightingale. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time has been three minutes, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0082par0542	Mr. President, first of all, I wish you the best of your mission, the right guide, the people. "Stop, pilgrim! This is the land which you did not know, so incline towards it, and listen to it; this is the place where the heart of a motherland is poured out." It is our duty, of course, to honor the truths described by the poet, to honor them with love, to honor them with love, which was too much truth to fit into a poem, to fit into a book. In this sense, I would like to express that we honor and love those who walk to the Rights in Çanakkale for the sake of rights. [[Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), AK PARTY, CHP and GOOD PARTY welcome]] Çanakkale's spirit will not be a nostalgic thing to remain in Çanakkale, but will be introduced to all Turkey, to the Middle East, to the world mankind, increasingly; I'd like to say that it is an initiative based on unity, unity, justice, identity, faith, whatever there is to live and live, but unfortunately it remains in Çanakkale, a pleasant seda, and now we forget the truth of Çanakkale. The Republican People's Party's motion must no doubt be supported, accepted, implemented in the field. All of the topics mentioned in the motion are very important for public health, public health, our health, the health of our country. In this sense, the proposals and opinions of the Union of Turkish Medicines, the Association of Turkish Pharmaceuticals, the Union of Turkish Dentists, the Union of Turkish Dentists and all organisational groups in the field of health should be taken into account; if by action, all opposition demands, requests and criticism should be taken into account; but when you do so, the opposition does not co-operate in pushing what the opposition says. Here, the rejection of the demands of the sick prisoners is a coup to the union. In this sense, it's also political cunning to call the demand for justice, for democracy, for freedom, for equality, for equality, for unity, and to call it a national union only for the demands of power, and to collect a policy from here. I say, "If you want unity, if you want unity, then the poet will say, 'If you want wealth, give up your hand; if you call from your own blood, that is the divine revelation.'" I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0083par0550	You've used your time very carefully, Mr. Nightingale, thank you. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Ankara MP Arife Polat Dek. Here you go, Mr. Polat Straight.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0084par0554	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, even though our agenda is the coronavirus, I remember our heroes, our martyrs, with mercy and thanks. Mr. President, we all live alive now, where infectious diseases are not limited to the first region or country, due to increased travel in the country for reasons such as trade, tourism, and so on. Now, the CHP's proposal mentions some epidemics and problems. I'd like to say that, for example, there is no drug in one of them about what we call "scabbies" -- they didn't include themselves in today's speech -- but -- I mentioned that in my previous talks -- through our drug tracking system, there is no problem in the stockpile for Istanbul and our country right now when we check the current stock condition of this drug that they say is not missing. For example, there are over 80,000 boxes and lotions in Istanbul alone. Now, what's our country doing in epidemics? We're all going through this together with all our citizens. Every report we get from the World Health Organization is being evaluated by our Ministry of Health, and we're working together with the Science Board, with our citizens, to solve our problems so that the world's mistakes don't happen in our country. In minimizing the effects of this virus, which has a very high rate of spread, there are great responsibilities for all of our citizens along with us. The first thing we need to do is not panic, we need to follow the opinions and advice of the authorities and of the experts in the field, who are authorized by them, and we shouldn't give credit for the baseless information that goes around social media and so on. With the cooperation of our nation, I believe, hopefully, we'll survive with minimal damage. I'd like to give a big round of applause to the health workers, who are dedicated day and night, leaving their own family and children, first Mr. President and our Minister of Health, if you'll excuse me, to show them that we're with them. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Now, data from the World Health Organization and from the Public Health Directorate are monitored daily by the details of this disease, guides, and all health workers. Also, the proposal was to talk about other infectious diseases, some problems with immigration management, but now that our agenda is the corona virus, I'm going to do what we can to say that we're all going to be together for this war.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0085par0563	Complete, please.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0084par0564	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0085par0566	I submit to your votes the Republican People's Party Group's proposal that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, the Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Wednesday 18/3/2020 (now) I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Vice President of the naval AK PARTY Group The same section of Law Proposals of Law, 197, 139 and 174, which are part of the Charter's Proposals and Other Affairs from the Commissions, shall be taken to the 2nd, 3th and 4th, respectively, and the order of other tasks shall be defined according to this. The General Assembly's continued work until talks were completed on Thursday (March 19, 2020) until the 174th Law Proposal, in which they merged, It's recommended. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group to explain the motive of the proposal, Bursa MP Ahmet Kılıç. Here you go, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0086par0580	Mr. President, I have received a promise from the highly valued lawmakers regarding our proposal for the AK PARTY group. I salute you all. Today is the anniversary of our victory in Çanakkale, March 18th. In this occasion, I honor and cherish Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and all our heroic martyrs who made Çanakkale impenetrable. Dear lawmakers, tomorrow our Minister of Health has a presentation on the coronavirus to our Parliament. Once again, I would like to express my gratitude to all of our health workers, especially our Minister of Health, who have made sacrifices for the welfare of our nation. As you know, we're planning to finish the Law Proposal No. 196 tomorrow. We also want to move the two contracts to the second and third place on the agenda. These contracts are an offer on the amendment of the Law Proposal for the Agreement of African Development Bank No. 197, and on the other between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Montenegro and the Defence Industry Business Association between the Government of Montenegro, we are planning to discuss the Proposal of the Law and the Law of the Neighborhood Watchers 174 rows. The group awaits your support for our proposal, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0087par0586	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Tekin Bingöl. Here you are, Mr. Bingöl.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0088par0589	Mr. President, first of all, I wish you all the best in your new mission. Dear lawmakers, the whole world is locked in this disease. In almost every aspect of life, the process is watched with great anxiety and anxiety. From time to time, we face dramatic consequences, and from time to time, we face incredible, unimaginable events. From the moment this happened, the Republican People's Party never came to terms with the incident from a political perspective. Because that's the problem with all of us, that's the problem with a common understanding; that's our point of view, we've never looked at it politically. We've had suggestions, we've had warnings, there are serious shortcomings, but today is not the day to talk about those flaws and mistakes. We make suggestions, we give warnings. Mr. President yesterday -- very detailed -- made important warnings about the matter, made suggestions; who cares? Yesterday, our Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Free Special, with a very detailed press release, voiced our party's proposals and warnings again, who cares? And again, yesterday, HDP and Republican People's Party had group proposals. When is this not going to happen today, and when is this going to happen? So is it the international agreements we're going to discuss today, or is it more important to understand that the issue that plagues humanity is more detailed and broader under the roof of Parliament? Unfortunately, the Justice and Development Party's old habit continues, drawn up from a political point of view, and yesterday's proposals are rejected. Italy is crying blood, killing dozens of people every day, writhing in despair, demanding help for European countries; the wall. A country, a country that's not very good at relationships, China, is sending personnel with an airplane full of medical equipment, trained, experienced personnel to Italy; it's a lesson in humanity. An English cruise ship is in the middle of the ocean, with thousands of passengers to be expressed, and in it, there is a certain diagnosis of the coronavirus, and the countries do not accept it.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0089par0594	Here they are, Mr. Bingöl.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0088par0595	A country teaches humanity and allows it to dock at its port. I will take care of it. It says Cuba. Here, we should have faced such a problem as this, but unfortunately, opposition parties' proposals and warnings are never considered. I hope that after these days, we don't look back with the ah and the apocalypse and the wish. I hope our right and right proposals will be considered after today. Turkey's Medical Association, the Union of Turkish Pharmaceuticals, and the Association of Turkish Pharmaceuticals, with over 100,000 members, has a branch in 65 settlements, is somehow excluded from the process. Everyone's talking about an alliance test. A limited number of tests are being conducted in 81 districts when this test should be conducted. The fate of the masses is uncertain.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0089par0598	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0088par0599	So, first of all, the ministry is transparently going to share all the developments with the public. If transparency doesn't prevail after this time, it's extremely wrong, and it's impossible to accept it if it's focused on taking the process away and writing a success story by hiding it, hiding it, hiding it as it was originally done. It'll be transparent, everything will be shared with the public. This will open the way for them to take precautions, be invited, but not by concealing them, not by hiding them. I'd like to draw your attention to one thing and finish my speech. This Parliament is a solution-making place. I say it's the worst thing to do to this country, to seek the solution in palaces, elsewhere, only in a closed room of a ministry. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit01spe0090par0603	I submit to you the motion of the Justice and Development Party Group: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0090par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 70th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Under the decision taken, we move on to the agenda of "The Proposals of Law and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will begin negotiations with Denizli MP Nilgün Ök and 46 MPs in the 1st place, with the Plan and Budget Commission Report, offering changes to some Laws. Commission? He's in position. Under Article 91 of the Civil Code, the 14th Article was adopted in the first chapter of Law Proposal 196. Now I'm going to make a motion on the 15th article. There are three motions on the 15th article. I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 15 of the Law Proposal No. 196 be removed from the text of the law proposal. Züleyha Gülüm Mahmut Celadet Güydalı Kemal Ülbül Erdal Aydemir Murat Çepni Abdullah Koç Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0091par0018	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0090par0019	Now to discuss the motion, İzmir MP Murat Çepni. Here you go, Mr. Chepni.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0092par0022	Thank you, Mayor. The General Assembly and our valued people, the Coronavirus is not a futrate, it's not a fate, it's not an outbreak of unidentifiable, unexplainable centers, it's a result of direct decaying capitalism. Yes, decaying capitalism is the only way we can face such consequences as we rot humanity, nature, natural life, for profit, for Rant. We will certainly see what else we face in time. Just last year, in 2019, we discussed a very intense climate crisis. Again, we discussed the consequences of earthquakes and earthquakes, especially in Turkey. Remember, under the scope of the ecological crisis, we considered global warming as a crisis of capitalism. Because if the world gets hotter by one degree, it becomes uninhabitable, and life is at risk of being wiped out altogether. The main reason for this global warming was not because of the water we used in one house or a series of mistakes we made, but because of direct production of companies through fossil fuels, so the result of fossil fuels caused global warming. Now, although the results of global warming were much heavier than today, what we discussed was protection of forests, protection of agricultural areas, protection of habitats, not giving up production for profit and gain, but what did we discuss in 2019? In contrast, we've seen an increase in the use of fossil fuels in capitalist states all over the world, let alone limiting them, one of them in Turkey. Just today, again, we know that Turkey weighs in on its mine investments, that it continues to open the minefields. Again, when we discussed the results of the earthquake, we argued that the earthquake did not kill the results, but that it did. We discussed the destruction of earthquake concentration sites, the theft of earthquake taxes. Thus, the coronavirus must be treated precisely as a result of the decay created by capitalism. So we're discussing the corona virus in conditions where 3 billion people in the world live on the edge of starvation, where 3 billion people do not have health water, shelter, and nutrition. Yeah, you poisoned agriculture, industrial agriculture and agriculture were poisoned, we were eating toxic products. The water's been turned over to the looting of the capital companies. Agriculture was poisoned by the wrong seed policy, hybrid seed policy. The local seed was destroyed and we were forced to live with poisonous seeds. So, in the conditions where agriculture is destroyed, the forests are destroyed, the waters are destroyed, the construction sites of living spaces, the concretes, the conditions where we don't know what we're eating and what we're drinking, that's what we're dealing with. So it's not us who created these disasters, it's the corporations and their governments who created these disasters. Just as in Turkey, it is the runt policies of the AKP government, which is the ruling government of 1%. Well, what do you have to do? From here, we say that workers and workers are the most victims. Today, it is the working class who have to work, who have to ride public transportation, who will be the most victims in the conditions under which the curfew is already spoken, under the conditions under which factories are open. Because, let alone stay at home, lock up people who can't find food, let alone access to hygiene supplies, who don't have economic income to get their hygiene supplies, they're poor. At the same time, we're talking about people who can't find healthy water, wash hands, etcetera, or drink water. Therefore, the main victims of this crisis, the chaos of this virus, are workers, workers. So, what are capitalist countries doing in the world, and Turkey is in it?
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0093par0027	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0092par0028	Thank you. Look, Germany is trying to save companies, Italy, France, Turkey, and TÜSIAD are still trying to save them. Look, we, the HDP, recommend that all health care be provided free of charge. Basic food supplies against black-marketing should be received free of charge by the public. All workers must be given paid permission. Losses should be paid by capital, not by the public. The entire burden of this process must be met from the vaults of the palace, from the corporate vaults, from the corporate warehouses. Capitalism is not fate, but I call on all our peoples, all the world's workers and workers to rise up against capitalism and get rid of this persecution and rotten capitalism. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0094par0032	I submit the motion to your votes. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now I'm going to read the other motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 15th article of the Law Proposal be changed in the following way. With all due respect. It is dated 15-4/6/1985 and added to Mining Law 3213. "EK MADDE 19-If one of the reasons is found, it can be decided that financial obligations and/or statements of the Treasury and Finance Ministry should be earmarked by the Ministry if any of them are found, by delaying the financial obligations and/or statements within the scope of this Law. In this case, the statute of limitations on financial obligations will cease, and the deniable deadlines will not work during delays. For the first joke to be implemented, the obvious reason must be known, or it must be verified by the relevant ones. The ministry is authorized to declare a reason why, due to circumstances that have been considered a compelling cause, the region, the province, the municipality, the site or the disaster, and to identify those who cannot be fulfilled from the fiscal obligations set in this Law at this time. Gamze Taşcıer Müzeyyen Şevkin Emine Gülizar Emecan Ankara Adana İstanbul Cavit Bee Saliha Sera Kadıgil Milk Suat Özcan Özalya İstanbul Muğla Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0095par0043	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0094par0044	Now, to talk about the motion, Congresswoman Suat Özcan. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0096par0047	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 15th amendment of the current bag of legislation. On the 105th anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale on March 18, I begin with the honor and gratitude of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and all our martyrs who made Çanakkale impenetrable. The 15th article of the proposal, dated 4/6/1985 and added to Mining Law 3213, can be decided by the Ministry, in the case of any particular reason, to postpone its financial obligations and/or statements, by receiving the view of the Treasury and Finance Ministry. In that case, the statute of limitations on financial obligations will cease, and the deniability will not work during delays. For the first joke to be carried out, there must be a clear reason for it, and it must be verified by those involved. The ministry is authorized to declare a reason why, due to circumstances that have been considered an overwhelming cause, the region, the district, the district, the area and the disaster, and to identify those who cannot be fulfilled by law during this time. This issue is being arranged for the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, in the event that any of the reasons in the matter is found, in order to determine whether the Ministry of Finance and Finance should be granted a postponement of its financial obligations or declarations under the Mining Law, and whether it should be given the authority to decide on its financial obligations. During talks on the commission, it was stated that the regulation was made as a result of the cancellation of license holders, who had been forced to pay for various reasons, if state rights and registration costs that should not be paid for each year were not paid in a certain amount of time in the Mining Law. Due to the epidemic in China, our questions have not been satisfied whether exports to China will be applied to the marble industry. In addition, our proposal for reorganisation of matter in terms of strong reasons such as the height of the delay increase, self-proclaiming of circumstances, and so on has been rejected. We do not find its efforts to legalize the industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission as well, regardless of the opinion of the parties involved, without discussion and evaluation. Yes, we've been exposed to the outbreak of the global corona virus, while the wounds of the Elazig earthquake, the Van avalanche, the Idlib movement were not covered by the country's wounds. I've been coming for months in our country, which has been unmanageable for 18 years, where the fundamental problems can't be solved. There's the same lack of common intellect in the coronavirus crisis, which says, Because in our country, when the first official case of the corona virus is detected, the total number of tests appears to be around 2,000. Our citizens were not conscious at the time; they did not know what danger our citizens were facing with the corona virus. But with transparency, with clarity, it could still contribute to the measures taken. More than 3,000 health workers are said to have been infected in China during the outbreak. Have we learned from this, trained our health workers and taken the necessary precautions? I'd like to thank all of our dedicated health workers. In terms of education, students and teachers are victims. For this school year's final exams in remote education, test questions must cover the subject of courses conducted until the end of the year when the coronavirus outbreak is recessed. Payday teachers get paid for the course they're taking, but they won't be able to attend classes because of a break from education, so they won't get paid. Therefore, the Ministry of National Education must address the victims of paid teachers. A permanent pardon must be issued immediately for the postponement of COBI and tradesmen's debts. We expect the measures to be co-operated by local governments and ministries, as tourism regions, airports, coastal settlements are open to the risk of coronavirus from outside countries. Have we been able to develop a modern system in terms of what public, private sector and NGOs can do with cooperation, in terms of production and consumption crises -- in line with the scientific board's proposals?
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0097par0057	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0096par0058	Are we late? A little, yeah. However, we can give a very important example of this crisis, not political opportunism, but unity, common sense, trust, cooperation. In short, I wish to give up the one party's mind, apply the common mind and state mind as quickly as possible, and complete this epidemic process with minimal damage, to our country and to all humanity as soon as possible, to have a uncoroned life and a healthy time. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0097par0061	Now, I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'll have the other motion read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and recommend that the statement of the 15th article of the Law Proposal for Amendments in some of the 196 rows that have been discussed be replaced with the notice taken in (1). Ayhan Erel İştinoğlu Ayhan Altıntaş Imam Hussein Filiz İsmail Tatüoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0098par0070	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0097par0071	Now to discuss the motion, Ankara MP Ayhan Altıntaş... Here you go, Mr. Goldstone.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0099par0074	Mr. President, I wish you all the best in your new assignment. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 15th Amendment of Law Proposal 196 on behalf of the Good PARTI Group. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the relevant substance appears to be intended to facilitate victims in the earthquake, so there seems to be no problem in this regard. But speaking of earthquakes, I can't help but mention it. Let alone the government's support, we're faced with a government that transfers donations from citizens to treasure and prepares to spend on other jobs. If the opposition hadn't gone over it, these donations would have already been melted in the budget. The state must be honest with its citizens, fair. It is not proper for an honest and just state to transfer money to treasure rather than spend it on earthquake victims. You destroy the citizens' trust in the government. We know the government's budget is so tight, it needs every penny, but then the first thing to do is to end waste and waste. Sadly, there is no saving of dignity. There is a great waste in the state. Europe has the rule of government cars that have no country. What we're most upset about is that they're all taken in debt to future generations, children, grandchildren. A mayor who ran Ankara for years created a big runt playing with the zoning in Ankara, gave 30 times the permit for the villa parcels, we don't know where he went, we don't know his account. At least we know he spent 750 million dollars on a freak like ANKAPARK. With today's money, more than 4 billion euros have been trashed. Of course, while Ankara's local government is in waste, our central administration remains undermining, while they continue to break records with other wastes. Unfit city hospitals, expensive power plants, nuclear power plants, bridges with overpriced prices, roads, debts he can't pay to future generations with Canal İstanbul at the end. Unfortunately, this government has made me forget the words "fibibility" and "planning." I think that the S-400ths we got from Russia stand before us as candidates for a huge waste like ANKAPARK. We asked from this platform what was your purpose, not knowing the threat. Our President-in-chief, Coral Akşener, warned a group that the planes are absurd to buy air defence from NATO, from the rival country of Russia. He said, "You didn't listen, let's not get S-400 nor buy Patriots, let's get our own engineers, our own companies, ASELSAN, ROKETSAN, let's develop them with TAİ. It seems you've wasted $2.5 billion. You can boast that we also make the biggest in practice. You did not give police, teachers, imams and nurses the additional 3600 indicators you had promised them, but you did not hesitate to give the $4 billion to ANKAPARK. You say, "There is no money for the people." You give 15 billion to the Russians immediately, and you look like you're willing to give 25 billion dollars to buy Patriot from the United States. Let's not let strangers do projects that we can do domestic and national with our own engineer, not hire Russian engineers or American engineers while our own engineers are out of work. Now, we've had the trouble of the coronavirus. Each country announces financial and financial measures, and today our President will make a statement. Economic life has stopped, tourism is over, the shop is closed, the workers are unemployed; you've already finished farming and manufacturing, you've made them dependent abroad. To cover the budget deficit, you managed a little bit more by bringing in a pay-per-view, zoning pardon, selling values like mera land. And they weren't enough, so you took every penny of the Federal Reserve's reserve and spent it. I hope you don't touch the unemployment fund in this environment because it seems like a time in which unemployment would be needed. In hospitals, there are no cleaning products, no toilet paper, no paper towels; the most basic needs for health care personnel are not available, such as masks, gloves; if patients come, we lack respiratory support. Mr. Secretary is not transparent in these matters; his statements are aimed at preventing panic; he has failed to rule, desperate, trying to save the day. In that case, God says no, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0100par0084	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm going to make a motion on the 16th article. There are three motions on the 16th article, which I will process in order of violation of the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 16th amendment of Law Proposal 196 be removed from the text of the law proposal. Züleyha Gülüm Mahmut Celadet Güydalı Kemal Ülbül Erdal Aydemir Abdullah Koç Nuran Imir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0101par0094	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0100par0095	Now, our Şırnak MP Nuran Imir will talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Imir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0102par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, on behalf of my party, I have made a pledge on the 16th Amendment. But before we get into the matter, we'd like to share an important matter with the public in your presence. Cizre Co-Chair Berivan Kutlu was taken into custody six days ago on charges of pleasure and base. He has been taken from Cizre to Urbana, and has been held for six days. Our Co-Chair's house, chosen by 77 per cent of the people in Cizre, is being printed by masked people, and unfortunately his hand is being taken away in reverse handcuffs. We're in no position to accept this, we can never accept such treatment. This approach, in fact, is an expression of moral and political decay, of exhaustion, of insufferability. We ask you to remove your hand from the woman's will, and I say release our co-chair, Berivan Kutlu, immediately. Now, the AKP's ruling on the matter has made the bag system a habit since 2010. The bag law is not a form of time management of Parliament, as the government reflects to the public; rather, the Constitution is ruled out by the rights of millions, including the rights of individuals and institutions, by compressing the law into a bag of laws. So the position of our party against the bag of laws has always been very clear, very clear. You're violating the Constitution and international law with the bag of laws, and you're deceiving the public. The entire legal system of the country has been put on the shelf, with the presidential government being transferred to its system. Since 2010, this government, which has been operating with the bag system, has made dozens of different changes in each law. These amendments restrict people's economic, social, political rights, limit their freedom. All human economic revenues, organizational activities are subject to the monopoly of power. In today's day, the 16th article, the economic crisis, unemployment, and unemployment-related suicides are often discussed, it is not reasonable to use the unemployment fund outside its purpose. The Fund, which needs to be used for the unemployed, has begun to be used as a source of premium support for employers. The majority of whom the government prefers to transfer money when it comes to using the Fund are, in general, capital groups. In addition, it is not appropriate to be given a vocational certificate of competence by private companies, even though the state has many competent institutions on the subject. It would be a more reasonable arrangement for the authorization to be issued by state-owned institutions. The certificate of vocational competence has so far paid 776 thousand people $672m from the Fund. By the end of 2021, 450,000 people are expected to receive this document and are expected to receive another $382,500,000 from the Fund. The money needed for the certificate of vocational competence must be paid by the employer, who has benefited from increased labour quality, rather than being paid by the Fund in violation of the unemployment Fund law. Dear lawmakers must be taken against such a deadly pandemic that endangers public health in many countries, affecting society and causing deaths, health measures and economic measures, as well as any other measures. In the face of the Corona disaster, the government must be more sensitive than the public. Iran, for example, has released 85,000 prisoners and prisoners due to the corona disaster. It is clear that there are many prisoners and prisoners in Turkey's prisons, and the epidemic caused by hygiene problems will occur at any moment. In view of all of this, first the sick prisoners, those in the risk group and women must be released immediately. We cannot accept an understanding that condemns them to death. Critical processes include making critical and as radical decisions. In this case, human and public health must be the priority. Now, it's time to meet our reality.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0103par0106	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0102par0107	We're witnessing in the world and in our country that no human policy, no project, will succeed. In these difficult times, we can only succeed in a preeminent understanding and solidarity of public health. The measures related to health and economics must come into play with a common mind, taking measures that do not condemn the sick and the poor to death. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0103par0110	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I'm having the other motion read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 16th amendment of the Law Proposal be changed in the following way. With all due respect. ADADDE 16-25/8/1999, and the first verse of Article 3 of the Law on Unemployment No. 4447 has been changed in the form of ▪31/12/2019. Gamze Taşcıer Müzeyyen Şevkin Emine Gülizar Emecan Cavit Bee Saliha Sera Kadıgil Milk Suleiman Girgin Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0104par0121	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0103par0122	Now, to talk about the motion, I give you my word to Süleyman Girgin. Here you go, Mr. Girgin.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0105par0125	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Both the world and Turkey are giving an important test in the fight against the coronavirus epidemic, friends. On this test, we don't need panic, we need precautions. The Coronavirus, on the other hand, once again reveals the vital importance of the social state. Health, education, and social security privatisations have shown how dangerous it can be. We opposed the sale of sugar factories because it was strategic, and now we need the raw materials of disinfectant more than ever before. Now, are sugar factories to be understood strategic or not? On the other hand, we have no money, no money, no money, no money. Of course we'll survive this epidemic, but a country that grows with public understanding, not concrete, but science. Economic and social measures in the fight against the Coronavirus pandemic are a complement of economic struggles, as is the case with other challenges. Therefore, the Economic and Social Council must meet immediately. Dear friends, the 16th article of the law proposal we have envisions a year's extension of the implementation of the examination and document fees for the certificate of professional competence from the unemployment benefit fund. We do not find it right to pay the costs from the unemployment fund. Neither capital nor Loan Guaranteed Fund shall be given to the workers; the unemployment fund shall be given to the workers. At such a time, industry, tradesmen, farmers, free trade scholars, Turkish Medical Association, doctors, health workers, unions, all of this should come together. On the other hand, the amnesty must be issued at once. This process can cause many to become unemployed, and unemployment benefit needs to be used in this framework. Money is needed to overcome a major health crisis. So, who are we gonna get the money from, guys? What needs to be done today is that public-private and guaranteed payments must be postponed for a year, only for a year. The Ministry of Health budget for 2020 is 58 billion; in 2020, the guarantee for city hospitals is 10.4 billion - 20 per cent of the Health Ministry budget. Those who make the largest income from the state are the ones who must make the most sacrifices at this time. The officer, the worker, the pensioner, the unemployed are no longer willing to make sacrifices. Dear friends, there is a deep economic crisis that has upset the lives of our working people. With the plague, this crisis will grow. Unemployment has risen to 13.7 per cent, our broadly defined number of unemployed is over 8 million, one of our four young are unemployed, 115, 000 small tradesmen shut down in 2019, the farmer's tractor is out of control; this process has no other name, this crisis. Even if you're trying to cover it up by advertising balloon growth numbers without creating employment. Mr. Erdogan called us hungry in the public squares 18 years ago. Now, thanks to you, people, leave the squares, in the House, even in your own party group, I am hungry, my child is hungry. As the poet said, the meat has passed, you hear, the knife is in the bone. Dear friends, power is trying to generate a response to the crisis through its legislature activities by stuffing it into bags. How? By setting up a oppressive regime. That understanding is also evident in the arrangement presented in the Associations' Law with this bag of legislation. A control mechanism where all areas of life are driven from a single center is also strengthened by this law. Because power sees the ground on which it rises shift and desperately tries to prevent it. Dear friends, we need to address the matter of associations in the context of freedom to organize. At this point, we have two questions: First, everyone has the freedom to form an organization without prior permission and has the freedom to become a member or to be a member or to be a member of a member. Are we going to deal with it according to the Constitution, or are we going to view any organization as a security issue? I want to answer that question not technically, but as an ex-miner who fought for union organization.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0106par0136	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0105par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, being involved in an organization is a phenomenon that strengthens the civic bond. We can consider this over recent suicides. Unfortunately, the suicides of our citizens, who say, "We can't get by in different parts of the country, have increased. " Economic difficulties are a major factor in these suicides, which is certain, but it would be misleading to connect suicides only to economic problems; rather, I think these suicides are related to our loss of citizenship. There was always an economic crisis, but people found ways to stick together. These are the ways that sustain this society. On the contrary, we should encourage our citizens to become members of the associations, not to suspend them from fear of being branded from the associations. I'd like to remind you that the obstacles you want, the bans you want, and the fear you want to spread with all the judicial hands, this water called democracy will find a way to flow to itself. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0107par0141	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'll have the other motion read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment to the amendment of some Laws under the 16th article of the Law Proposal shall be re-organised. Ayhan Erel İştin Şahrettin Düyüş Aydın Adnan Sezgin İsmail Tatüoğlu Imam Hüseyin Filiz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0108par0150	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0107par0151	Aydın MP Aydın Adnan Sezgin is about to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Sezgin.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0109par0154	Mr. President, Congressmans, first of all, I'm celebrating the 105th anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale. Yes, the pandemic of the coronavirus -- we've talked a lot about -- is in a widespread disaster that reveals very clearly the vulnerability of the global system. Hundreds of thousands of people worldwide are being treated because of an epidemic that threatens humanity and, unfortunately, has yet to be cured. Millions of people live in cities and even countries have been quarantined and there are tens of thousands of deaths, and they will continue to happen. Because of these qualities, the epidemic has not only become a medical or humanitarian issue, but has also become a subject of international relations. I'd like to address the international relationship dimension of the issue, as long as our views on the wrongs and shortcomings we've established in our country under the rule of the crisis remain hidden. This Chinese-based epidemic has spread to almost every country in about three months. In order to fight the epidemic, a globally total collaboration has become mandatory, with the country's unique capacity and skills inadequate. It is easier to make progress on the path of control of the epidemic, thanks to countries sharing their savings during the fight against the epidemic within them. In research centers around the world, scientists continue to study the abandonment of preventive and therapeutic drugs that can fight the epidemic. At this point, the fact that the international relations system should be seen once again as the basis for co-operation, not a conflict based on hostility. It's a good thing we have the United Nations system and the World Health Organization today. Countries like China, Iran, Italy, which have very different political and economic systems, have had to come together on the common ground in the fight against the epidemic, which shows us once again how wrongly the foreign policy approach that we've been following, especially in recent times, is that some of the wrong approaches that have arisen in the world. To view international relations as a collaborative environment, not a hostile environment, is one of the preconditions for combating the vulnerability of the global system. Turkey, along with the international community, should be included in the most participatory approach possible to fight the coronavirus epidemic. First of all, it has been understood that the outbreak was from abroad and that the cases in our country have been seen largely in foreign contacts. At this point, the Ministry of Health, as well as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is responsible for the fight against the epidemic. The State Department has made significant efforts so far, especially when the outbreak broke out, taking significant steps to ensure the temporary return of our citizens abroad to our country. As of last night, it has been announced that the return operations are over, but if these operations have been sufficient, if the evacuation process has been complete, the answer to these questions is important to address concerns in society. The State Department has also done its duty to inform our citizens living abroad. Our foreign missions have done their duty so far, they must be prepared for the rest of this; they must be carefully planned and explained as they were last Sunday. In addition, our external missions should follow closely the progress made in countries where the epidemic is strongly monitored, which should be shared with the public in the periodic reports.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0110par0162	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0109par0163	In the present environment, where borders are closed between countries, nations must be able to gather their experience with the virus. The crisis can create an opportunity to build a new solidarity and a common sense of fate; the international community must make the best use of it. Turkey can play a leading role in this with a positive agenda. Finally, I'd like to stress the importance of co-directing the crisis, leaving all kinds of separations in our country aside. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey clearly has a very important mission, a function during this crisis. It is imperative that our parliament concentrate on this mission and its function by taking necessary protection measures. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Allow me a word of kindness, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0111par0167	Don't mention it, finish it.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0109par0168	Power must capture this consciousness, regain consciousness during this exceptional period. I salute all our dedicated paramedics, and pay my respects to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0111par0171	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, there are three motions on the 17th article. I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 17 of Law Proposal 196 be removed from the text of the law proposal. Erdal Aydemir Murat Çepni Sait Dede Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0112par0182	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0111par0183	Ağrı MP Abdullah Koç is about to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Coach.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0113par0186	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, in the process of spreading the corona virus in Iran, our neighbor, we submitted a question proposal to the Ministry on February 21st and warned the Ministry. We've made press statements in the House over and over again, and we've warned against measures that need to be taken. Unfortunately, he ignored our warnings and was late on this matter. Look, yesterday and today, all of the opposition parties' motions to fight the coronavirus were rejected by AKP and UMP votes, which came out once again, not being too important. There's one more thing that's important, valuable lawmakers; we're just talking about it in the House, the House has been bypassed once again. The decision was left to just one person, and only one person is making the decision. Dear friends, precautions are being taken, but not enough. The business is closed because of the virus, but what happens is that it happens to the poor people, and what happens to the laborer. It's easy to take precautions, but I'm afraid there are millions of people who can't even bring a loaf of bread home. According to the latest data, there are 11 million unemployed in Turkey, 11 million. Of course, it's close to 20 million, unfortunately, when people who work in businesses that have been shut down with these latest applications are added. These people are allowed to work for free, their lives are at stake, and unfortunately, their salaries are not paid. Look, there's a line called "Hello 184. " I got a complaint yesterday -- the nearest -- calling, getting a call back to him eight hours later. Millions can't afford electricity, water, gas bills, they can't pay their rent. ▪ Food supplies are being stocked in houses. You say, "Others can't stockpile"? Of course they're poor, of course they're unemployed; they can't stockpile. Look, you've tried to reduce the powers of all the local governments, you've taken over local governments. The municipalities, which can provide for millions of people, are now in the hands of trustees and are awaiting orders from one person. People are on the street and at home right now, and their demands are not being met in that sense. How long will one man last so much trouble, I offer it to all of you and the public? Electrical and natural gas companies in particular have absorbed the blood of this people. Now it's time to give the people what they're taking. They have to give what they've taken to this community; they have to spend what they've taken, not to the foundations, but to the public. Dear friends, in the 2020 budget, 5 billion 410 million dollars are earmarked for the covered fund to be earmarked for the President's spending. It's not clear who or where this money is being spent. The Constitution, I'm afraid, prevents this from being questioned. And that's exactly where we're calling it: this money has to be spent on this people, this virus has to be distributed to the poor people, and the public needs must be paid for because it's the people's money. The small tradesman is in trouble now because the market chains have been supported, and the small tradesman must be supported. Tax amnesty must be brought in immediately, the debt of the SGK must be erased, the debt of the people who use bank credit cards because of their needs must be paid by the state. All food materials must be met by the government. It must be immediately publicized; of course, electricity, natural gas, and the goods given to those privatised companies must be repossessed for the public. Dear friends -- very important -- must be dealt with immediately. A legal change in this direction and the law must surely be brought to the agenda of this House. The other painful thing is, right now, there are millions of college graduates, all unemployed, all in danger. These college graduates must be paid a minimum wage immediately. We think that for these measures to be taken, only a study of this epidemic should be carried out. This Parliament should not only bring up the bag laws; it should focus a little bit on what is now painful and perform a study in that direction. Look, again, with AKP's earlier proposal, law proposals for the guards and the bag of laws will be brought up, these proposals for the law will be taken into consideration.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0114par0197	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0113par0198	We certainly don't agree with that. Here's what we're calling our people, we're calling our people, we're calling our people, we're ready to run as the People's Democratic Party, we're ready to be on the road. I salute you all, thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0114par0201	I submit the motion to your votes. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, the two motions I'm going to read are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 17th amendment to some Laws under which there are 196 rows in question be replaced by the following article (1). Ayhan Erel İştin İştinoğlu Zeki Hakan Sıdalı Fahrettin Yoşüş Imam Hüseyin Filiz İsmail Tatüoğlu The signatures of the other motion are: Orhan Sumer Hussein Star Fikret Şahin Serkan Topal Ali Keven Faruk Sarıaslan Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We can't participate, Mr. President. Mersin MP Zeki Hakan Sıdalı asking for a statement on the proposals. Here you go, Mr. Sadalı.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0115par0222	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers celebrate the 105th anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale, one of the proudest and brightest in our history, who has fought to free and free this beautiful land, and I remember all our martyrs and veterans, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid we lost our first loss to the coronavirus last night. I ask God's mercy for a dear citizen whose name we don't know. According to the Health Minister's statement last night, at that moment, 98 of our citizens were diagnosed with coronavirus. I wish them to regain their health as soon as possible, and I wish all of our medical staff the ease of the process, day and night. We delayed the arrival of the virus into our country, but how did we assess that time? In these days, the number of cases is growing, and we need to talk about what method we're going to use for the new process. Holland, England, Germany, France, Italy, they all have different methods. Which one is it? We don't have enough data based on their success results. Do we know which one we're going to follow? Will the Minister of Health continue to maintain that transparency during a stressful period when we praise his transparency and the Science Board? We're wondering how you're doing on this. As we stress that we find his statement in the House tomorrow very constructive, we hope that tomorrow's statements here will be more informative than what we read in the media. Sadly, the statements made by our other ministers earlier were not expected. Given the sensitivity of this period and the fact that all of our decisions will be directly or indirectly affected by the society in some way, the statements made in parliament are of additional importance. Other than that, we'll be making it easier for us to be one voice, and we'll be pre-empt of the social media pollution reported in the country. Dear lawmakers, we have no evidence of the success of European methods, but we do have China because China seems to have gotten rid of this trouble, even though it was the first country to meet it. And how did he do that? The Chinese government has set two primary targets: stopping the loss of life, preventing economic collapse. And we must immediately determine our means of combat in order to prevent the loss of life. Your transparency should immediately share the challenge by choosing which method to fight, reveal the plans for action, because none of us would like to sacrifice another life for this virus. Of course, there's an economic dimension. The most basic duty of the state is that its people live a healthy life in prosperity and peace. So it's very important that our economy survive a crisis like this that surrounds the world and then eliminates all threats. We need a strong economy, a stable and adequate economic governance in our lives, both during this crisis and after the crisis. Often, we stressed from this platform that economic independence is as important as political independence, that without one, the other cannot be enough for full independence, and we have always criticised the errors in implementation; we stressed the importance of agriculture, producing self-sufficientness. Now, we're concerned that economic measures are being slow again. Because the pandemic of corona in the economic field has already hit our country for a few weeks, but the situation has taken a much worse turn in the last week. At the moment, the item we're talking about as part of our mission is being postponed once a year after the decision to establish the Esnaf Ahilik Ark in 2017 -- the law is being postponed by 2021 -- and it doesn't satisfy the tradesmen at all, it doesn't meet their demands, it only creates additional resources for the government. But right now, our tradesman needs resources. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me finish, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0116par0230	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0115par0231	Now, when you see such practices, you can't help but worry about the speed, the efficiency of the measures against the corona, the inclusion of the needs of the victims. Hopefully, your economic package will fund the victims, save our economy, which has been blocked for years, and has been congested in its lungs, from the grip of this disease. I salute our High Council.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0116par0234	It is the order of Aydın MP Huseyin Yildıl to speak on the same terms of the motions. Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0117par0237	Mr. President, my esteemed deputies, I salute you all. Mr. President, good luck with your new assignment. Dear friends, in the 105th year of the victory of Çanakkale, the first word of our Battle of Salvation, I bless and honor all martyrs, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Dear friends, we all know that 83 million people in Turkey have been interested in this since the Colorado virus arrived, and we've been tracking it for about ten days. In particular, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, we thank the health workers here, they work day and night, we have no doubt. Outside this coronavirus, we were also expecting a statement from the Minister of Economy. Tourism is the most affected area of the Corona virus. So the Tourism Minister's business is where we come in and make $35 billion in revenues. Dear friends, 1.5 million people work in tourism, 1.5 million. Plus, 20 million people with side arms provide income from tourism revenues in Turkey, so a hotel customer doesn't just lie there; it contributes to agriculture, it contributes to entertainment, it contributes to restaurants, it contributes to souvenirs, and 20 million people provide their livelihoods from tourism. After ten days, Mr. Tourism Minister has not made any statements, has not planned an emergency action, has not collected the Tourism Commission. I wonder when that's gonna happen. Dear friends, in March and April, hotel maintenance, opening and hiring begin. Right now, when we talk to the tourists in Bodrum, Kuşadas, Didim, Cesme, they say there is no explanation, they send the staff back home, especially Antalya. What should we do now? Dear friends, we need to postpone loans for a year for every hotel in tourist areas. In this year's term, the SSC will have to be met by the government. Guys, we need to get an emergency record pardon. As long as we don't get this record pardon, there's no way that investors, tourists, can ever get credit, dear friends. We, the Republican People's Party, feel it is imperative that this pardon of record be brought to parliament immediately. Stop paying for projects you guarantee 20 billion a year with the do-and-do model; you have to cut it, they don't need it anyway. Again, there are 25 million poor people in Turkey, so they don't get a penny in their house. We need to get the family insurance done immediately this time, dear friends. If we don't do this, after this corona virus, believe me, there will be an economic corona virus and thousands of people, thousands of companies, will go bankrupt and suicides will begin. Dear friends, by the way, if you don't declare economics and tourism incentives -- I'll write it down -- next semester, you won't find a tradesman who will pay taxes a year from now, you won't find investors who will open the business. In this particular, I'd like to ask the AKP to ask you, dear friends, to bring in the amnesty and family insurance this week. In addition, you must lend at least $500,000 to the trade room, to the shopkeeper in the tourism area. This loan needs to be free for six months, and six months later, you need to provide a long-term loan. Otherwise, you won't be able to do it in the next summer season, the performances will be over and over again. Dear friends, I say, of course, this virus exists not only in Turkey, but in all parts of the world, but I believe that -- China has succeeded in this corona virus -- hopefully, Turkey will be successful in this virus soon, and we will continue by correcting our economy in the coming period. But if you don't bring in these laws and pass them through the Turkish Grand National Assembly, you'll be blocking Turkey, and it'll be too late. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, one more moment, please. The tourism revenues you're expecting for $40 billion, unfortunately, will go down to $5-6 billion. In the coming period, I want you to know what the economic crisis will be like in Turkey. Especially Antalya, Bodrum, Mudla, Aydın, tourism investors in those areas can't really sleep at night, they don't know what to do. I especially want to address the Minister of Tourism: Gather the Tourism Commission at once, consider these issues, explain your urgent action plan. I hereby salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0118par0255	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit Article 17 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, there are 4 motions on Article 18, I will process the motions in order of violation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 18 of Law Proposal 196 be removed from the text of the law proposal. Züleyha Gülüm Mahmut Celadet Güydalı Kemal Ülbül Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0119par0266	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0118par0267	Anthalya MP Kemal Bülbül has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0120par0270	Thank you, Mr. President, and I salute the General Assembly. Of course, it is a precept that we should be talking about this bag of laws, sacks of laws, bags of legislation, and many of your fellow speakers, with a very serious, important, and residential concern, and we should be talking about this bag of laws, while we should be talking about it with all the data that seriously threatens public health, world health, and human health. At the moment, of course, as a state, as a ministry, some measures are taken and will be taken, but there is a very serious concern, doubt. Transparent, in its place, in its time, there is unfortunately no sufficient, satisfying, and convincing information. There are still many hospitals throughout Turkey that have no medical equipment to detect the germs of this disease, the virus of this disease, unfortunately, and that is extremely upsetting and worrying. As TTB officials who know the subject and their professional colleagues who are among us have stated, it is also unfortunate that the detection of those who may have had the virus amongst us has been neglected. The economic environment, the psychological environment, the social environment that this has created, is in a state of complete isolation, and in this regard, we need to take measures at the level of Parliament, where our Parliament must take a structure that speaks, argues, makes decisions, and demonstrates practical wisdom by canceling all agendas. The motion on sick prisoners has just been rejected, and the statement of our Şırnak MP is that a female mayor friend of ours will be taken into custody and held in custody for six days. On the one hand, in other countries, prisoners, prisoners are being released, new prisoners are being taken, new detentions are being taken; people are being hunted every day. Put aside this witch hunt, this manhunt. In this regard, lawyers, judges, judges commit crimes; they commit crimes by creating new crimes that do not produce criminal elements. And again, there is also a discrepancy, unfortunately, when there should be a permanent defined, understandable and practical solution in a process in which the tradesman, the worker, the worker, is in a difficult economic situation. In this entire process, three days later, Turkey will celebrate ▪Nevroz (Nevroz) in Turkey. A thousand and ninety-eight years ago, the Hallmaster Mansur, who walked in Nihavend, with the hosts of Karmati, asked him who was with him, saying, "What is this enthusiasm in men? What is today's enthusiasm, this colour, these clothes? Mansur said: "They are celebrating Nevroz." They said: "Why don't you join?" Mansur said: "Our Nevroz will be in the narrow." And, as he said, "And if there is a thousand years after that, let there be three matches in the wilderness of September 12th, let there be three matches in the prison of Diyarbakır, salute to Sultan Nevruz. We Alevis, Sultan Nevruz Djemi: Kurdish people celebrate the event as a festival of equality, freedom, and justice; and Middle Eastern people celebrate Nevroz, which has many different meanings. Unfortunately, in this psychological environment created by the coronavirus, I think going to the neurosis will sound like psychological therapy, and I particularly want to remind the dear students that, you know, this is not a vacation, this is not a protection measure, this is a protection measure. People of Turkey, our fellow citizens in Turkey, this is not a holiday, this is a protection measure.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0121par0278	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0120par0279	Thank you. Stay in the house. We can update the slogan, stay in our home, pay attention to our daily relationships, our actions, and provide the means to get out of this epidemic. Otherwise, we face a social obligation to meet the process, including all relevant institutions and institutions, health ministry, health ministry institutions, civil society organisations' proposals and demands. I once again celebrate Nevroz. It is March 26, 922, and also the day when Mansur the Hallmaster was a secret in the Dart, when Babut-Tak was slain in Babut-Tak, and eight days later it was his anniversary. I also honor and respect this human being who speaks to mankind of right, justice, and truth.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0122par0283	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'll have the other motion read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the amendment in Article 18 of the Law Proposal of some Laws in which there is no legal municipality of residence or employment in Turkey be changed. Halil Özturk Mehmet Taytak Cemal Çetin Ayşe Sibel Ersoy Ali Muhittin Taşdoğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0123par0292	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0122par0293	He's about to talk about the motion, Afyon MP Mehmet Taytak. Here you go, Mr. Taytak.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0124par0296	Dear President, first and foremost, good luck and good luck with your new mission, and I wish you all the best. Dear MPs, on March 18th, the anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale, I have made a promise with this occasion. I salute the Veteran Assembly and the great Turkish nation with love and respect. Today, we declare the greatest victory of all, the most meaningful victory of all days, and the Memorial Day of Martyrs. The victory of Çanakkale is a heroic epic that changes the Turkish nation's fate, the course of world history, and does not hesitate to die for independence. The victory of Çanakkale is a sacred memory of the nation of heroes who gave up their lives for the sake of the Turkish nation, giving up their lives for the sake of the Turkish nation, a divine struggle to glorify the hero's nation; a document of the resurrection and ascension of the great Turkish nation, which is not only a military achievement, but an occupation and a desire to play with its dignity and dignity. What those of us who were not called miracles were the essence of faith for the Turkish nation, Çanakkale. Gazi Mustafa Kemal Çanakkale expressed his spirit: "It was eight meters between the trenches, and the testimony was certain, that those who saw his brothers as martyrs ran in their place, that they would not hesitate, that they would be martyrs, that they would run to testify with words. This is the spirit that won the victory of Çanakkale. Sergeant Mehmet, who went to fight his child in the arson, leaving behind his family, the braves who had broken off his mother's arms, the men who went to save the country with greater weapons than his neck, the men who fought with his one arm, the Sergeant of Halime, who fought in the guise of a man, the 57th Regiment, who was all martyrs, the 10th Regiment, who sent his son to the land, condemning him to die, the mothers who sent him to the land, and many more anonymous heroes who sent him to the land, saying, "Let not the hill of the martyrs be empty, and let not be lacking with a sound." They never thought to return, they gave their lives for the sake of a crescent, and they gave their lives for the sake of a crescent. Let them dig you up. Let them dig you up. You can't fit in history. O son of martyr, don't ask me. The martyrs have opened their mouth to you, Prophet. In this consciousness, our nation, as in history, will continue to fight against the West forever, as it is today. The Turkish nation has always been one and one against all attacks from the past to the present, from the inside and from the outside. Our nation will never forget, forget, or forget the martyrs and veterans who gave their lives for the protection of our holy homeland, and will honor the sacred heritage, our homeland, and our flag. I celebrate the 105th anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale, written in gold in Turkish war history, honoring our heroic martyrs, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal, and all our veterans who have emigrated to eternity with gratitude and mercy.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0125par0301	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, the two motions I'm going to read are the same. I'll have them read the motions and process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The amendment to some of the 196 lines in which the amendment is held is included in the 1st article of Article 18 of the Law Proposal. We propose and submit that the declaration be changed with the notice. Ayhan Erel İştinoğlu İmam Hussein Filiz Fahrettin Yoshüş Behic Çelik İsmail Tatüoğlu The signatures of the other motion are: Gamze Taşçıer Müzeyyen Şevkin Emine Gülizar Emecan Cavit Bee Saliha Sera Kadıgil Milk Fortune Reputation Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0126par0315	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0125par0316	The first word on the proposals belongs to Mersin MP Behic Çelik. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0127par0319	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment proposal for article 18 of Law Proposal 196 that we are discussing. I salute the General Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm afraid we're witnessing one more bag of law enforcement. We will continue tirelessly and tirelessly to criticize the bag enforcement of the law, the most important indicator of Turkish democracy losing altitude. Let it be our duty to oppose the superior interests of the Turkish nation in all dimensions. Dear friends, we Turks have shaped and shaped human history, opened the age and closed the era. Attila the West, the end of the First Age, is Sultan Mehmet Mehmet the Conqueror, who brought the end of the Middle Ages. Now, the victory of Çanakkale, which we commemorated and celebrated the 105th year, changed the course of history by bringing humanity into a new range: the Russian Tsarate collapsed, the 1917 Socialist October Revolution, and Lenin formed the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. All imperialism has been defeated, colonialism has been slapped, and the crusader spirit has been crushed. The route to the establishment of the Republic of Turkey has become more specific. Our founder and savior leader, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, was the first to shine with the Anafartas and Ariburnu, and was the hope of the nation. Yes, if we live almost a hundred years of independence and sovereignty, this is the work of the Great Leader and his sacrifice, the selfless struggle. On this occasion, on the 105th anniversary of March 18th, I remember all our martyrs and veterans who went to eternity with mercy and gratitude and gratitude. Dear lawmakers, because of the outbreak of Covid-19, all humanity faces a great deal of trouble and a great test. I have full faith that humanity will defeat this attack. According to yesterday's statement by the health minister, we have learned that there are 98 cases in our country and that one person has lost their lives. I ask God's mercy for that person, for our fellow man. Hopefully, we'll get through this epidemic with the least of it. However, since 2002, in the last 18 years, the healthcare system has been destroyed, the Institute of Hüfzishaha has been destroyed, independent boards have been removed and health services have been out of control; corruption has increased in the name of city hospitals; health care has been entrusted to private and side. Just as with the bird flu, all the winged ones are being destroyed across the country, and we see the Institute for Hiccessity shut down before the Manisa Chicken Disease Research and Proliferation Institute is supposedly closed for savings, and the existing experts are being distributed. I'm curious, which power has shut down the Manisa Institute? To this day, we don't want a weak Ministry of Health and a weak government, just like the bird flu. Just as long as the requirements of the public health code number 1593 are fulfilled. Let's get the councils active, and we'll be fine again. Dear lawmakers, the issue of the bet is the 18th article in Article 4632, which is added to Article 5 of the Individual Pension Savings and Investment System Law. According to this, it is also envisioned that citizens who do not have a settlement in Turkey or those of our citizens who have left the citizenship of the Republic of Turkey with permission should be included in the scope. Over its contributions, it is dominated that the president can make a state contribution at 10 per cent. So I would like to remind your grand delegation that it is imperative to build the macroeconomic balances of our country, which floats through the chronic crisis, through rational money and finance policies, into the production economy.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0128par0325	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0127par0326	That's how the BES system becomes sustainable. Otherwise, God forbid, the economy can be dealt with by a fate such as multiple organ failure. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I request the approval of our motion, with all due respect.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0128par0329	Ankara MP Servet Üssal is quoted as saying about the same proposal. Here you go, Mr. Unisal.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0129par0332	Dear President, I wish you great success in your new mission. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute the General Assembly. As a physician, I'm going to give you some reminders, some warnings, some vital suggestions, friends, against the plague that is troubling us all, causing fear. Every day you look at TVs, whatever it is, it's the same people, it's the same sports, it's the same guys, it's the same guys, it's the earthquake, it's the same guys, it's the same guys, it's the same guys, it's the economy, it's the same guys. (Applause from CHP and HDP rows) Friends, I've been talking about coronavirus, I've been looking at television, we've been watching people on TV every day who are indifferent, ignorant, or even presumptuous. And that bothers us, of course, that we, as a physician, are particularly familiar with what we know. And I'm calling all political parties to this critical point, friends, because the dead have no right, no left, no rich, no poor, it's what unites us all in this sense. I'd like to express the distress of health workers in particular. All health workers are at risk in the first degree. In order to contain the Coronavirus, to protect the health of our people, to protect the health of our medical workers, they must have absolute and absolute needs, because you're falling into their hands. In many places, we see the lack of adequate masks, hygiene supplies. First of all, medical equipment and equipment in all health centers must be repaired immediately. I'm just pointing out that there's one more problem that I've always said, and it's going to need more and more at this time: health personnel have appointment issues. Today, we see that around 620,000 people are not assigned to different assignments and majors. On this occasion, the appointment of non-assigned medics will be useful. Let's review some of the measures taken by the authorities: Friends, football games were played, played around the world, but everyone took a serious precaution, they postponed their games. What do we have? They're gonna play without an audience. Friend, in the Galatasaray-Basiktaş game -- I'm an old football player -- there were 850 people in the stadium, there were at least 3 or 5,000 people out there. What do I know? Who are we kidding? Besides, how many people were in cafes, coffees? Hundreds of people watching the game, what do I know? Now, to the second troubling point, I'm also telling my dear Minister that the process of returning from Umre has been mismanaged, friends, quarantine rules have not been enforced. We all know the history of who goes back and who goes back. Why wasn't there a healthy organization, but at night the children, the students were torn apart, went to the bus stops that took his blanket? Yeah, let's make sure everyone from abroad is followed by the most clear, no exceptions, 14 days rule. Because of the risk of creating crowds, more clear measures for Friday worship areas should have been taken first, the President of Religious Affairs is late; friends, the day, the clock is important in this disease. Yeah, what's the capacity of our health care system? There are 1,534 hospitals; they are the Ministry of Health, the University of 68, and the Private Hospital of 577. All of these will require intensive care, and in the coming days, we have around 38,000 intensive care. We have an intensive care capacity of 38,000 people -- this disease, this coronavirus case -- for later times of the disease. Especially 14,000 children, friends. I hope we can see our way through a more serious assessment of this event. Our number of doctors... he really isn't enough either. Friends, 42 percent of the beds -- 38,000 -- are in public hospitals, 42 percent are in private, 16 percent are in universities. I'm telling you what the Ministry of Health should do in case the virus spreads: hospitals -- private or public -- all have to go to the same status, private hospital-state hospitals must be completely integrated.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0130par0342	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0129par0343	Thank you, Mr. President. Also, all closed hospitals need to be opened as quarantine hospitals -- look, five hospitals have been closed in Ankara. In South Korea, we see a low mortality rate. Why is it low? Guys, that's a lot of kits. Seriously, guys, the more kits you use, the clearer the diagnosis. Even without symptoms, anyone wanted should be tested for diagnosis. Look, there are two companies in Turkey that make this test, produce it, but we don't buy kits from these companies that make and sell it to 10 countries, people. I'm giving you a very clear statement from the University of John Hopkins today: there are over 200,000 cases of corona, over 8,000 deaths, and we've made 80,000 people healthy. Amma, there are 10 cases that can't be detected when one corona has been detected; I'm just saying what scientists say.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0131par0347	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0129par0348	What does that mean? If there are 200,000 cases of corona, there are 2 million cases of undetectable corona, my friends. In this sense, when the political power, especially the Minister, maintains transparency in the number of these cases, and, on a current basis -- it can happen every day -- when he explains the right one -- the positive ones, and the negative ones -- we really have to predate any measure for the disease, friends. Thank you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0132par0352	I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Members of parliament, there are 3 motions on Article 19 of the same property. The first two motions I read are the same. I'll have them read the motions and process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 19th article of Law Proposal No. 196 be removed from the text of the law proposal. Züleyha Gülım Mahmut Celadet Güdalı Erdal Aydemir The signatures of the other motion are: Gamze Taşcıer Müzeyyen Şevkin Emine Gülizar Emecan Saliha Sera Kadigil Milk Mustafa Adıl Cavit Bee Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0133par0367	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0132par0368	Now to talk about the motion, Bingl MP Erdal Aydemir. Here you go, Mr. Aydemir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0134par0371	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, of course, we have one death in our country, which the Minister of Health has announced as of last night, stemming from the corona virus, which is on the agenda of our country and the world. We ask for patience as we ask God's mercy for a citizen whose name has died because of this plague, but we don't know where he lives. Dear friends, what's as dangerous as the corona virus, in our country, is that the courts, whose basic duty and function is to do justice, have been dropped. So the concept of justice is made up of the consciences of the only individuals that form society. The conscience of the public is justice. If the courts that are charged with carrying out justice in a country have been murdered by their own hands, knowingly and willingly, then believe me, there is no future for that society. Look, valuable lawmakers, let's give you a few examples of the state and practice of the courts. These are the decisions that began with the Idris Bauken case in 2016 and continued with the Selahattin Demirtaş case, which again appeared in the public case of Ahmet Altan, which continued to exist in the Osman Kavala case, which at the very last opposed media members, press workers, journalists' court practices, aimed at killing justice, as dangerous as the corona virus. Of course, these files that I'm currently on the stand are public-known and monitored files, but there are hundreds of similar files that are not on the public agenda. Therefore, the same struggle with the coronavirus must be fought in law and judgment, which must be given, because unfortunately justice has been killed in our country. It's obvious who killed them and who tried to kill them. Dear friends, a Deputy Leader of the Group, has reminded us that our Deputy Group President, Coral Danış Beştaş, has entered our country from abroad as of March 8th, and therefore must undergo a 14-day quarantine period. And I remind you from the bench: Has this practice been done to ministers traveling to Brussels with the AKP's President and the President, the relevant authorities, and journalists accompanying him on the plane? It is imperative that they inform the public about this. Friends, there's always been an example of Italy in the battle against the coronavirus again. Friends, do any of you know the money the state of Italy has set aside as a payday, as a precautionary note? He saved 400 billion euros in black-day money from his budget, and now he's earmarked $28 billion in the fight against this coronavirus.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0135par0376	Three and a half billion dollars of help coming in.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0134par0377	Germany has earmarked $50 billion for the coronavirus. South Korea has saved $9.8 billion. Dear friends, the question is, how much money have we saved for this virus in our country? The fight against this virus... This needs to be known by the public.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0136par0380	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0134par0381	The Italian example has been given since now, to the public knowledge of the House and Turkey. Dear friends, once again, it's very, very important -- let's go through very quickly -- the most affected part of the coronavirus is the prisoners and prisoners who are currently in prisons, which are kept closed away from the hygiene environment. We're calling in the Department of Justice to get rid of this corona virus as soon as possible. Prisons are about 80 to 90 thousand, currently under arrest and convicted. Look, dear friends, arrest is a measure in the Turkish Penal Code and its legislation. This measure will be changed to alternate judicial control provisions at any time, and the courts will be able to issue an eviction order by reviewing all the arrest files of all the prisoners who are currently in the prisons. There's nothing in the way of that.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0136par0384	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0134par0385	I'm so sorry, Mr. President. In addition, for the prisoners, the Parliament may also save the prisoners who are in the coronavirus prison for the provisions of the Penal Code, which is now expected to come to Parliament, which will be downloaded to the General Assembly very quickly, and shall be executed in accordance with regulations in the Penal Code on provisions. I remind you once again that in the event of the death of all prisoners and prisoners who may or may not be able to die of coronavirus in prison, it will also be the power of the AK PARTI and the Minister of Justice. And March 21st, we know that around the world, it is celebrated as the festival of Nevroz, and I celebrate the festival of Nevroz, especially for the Kurdish people and the Middle East peoples. (PHP 3, PHP 4)
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0137par0389	Celebrate the Turks!
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0134par0390	The Turks are from the Middle East; no, I celebrated yours, it's over. The Turks, too.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0138par0391	This is Army MP Mustafa Adılbışin. Here you go, Mr. Nice Name.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0139par0394	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I, at the beginning of my remarks, remember with respect and gratitude the martyrs and veterans who led us to this victory in Çanakkale, because of March 18th, especially Gazi Mustafa Ataturk. Çanakkale is the first word of the Republic of Turkey, where Çanakkale Mustafa Kemal is Ataturk. If there's time at the end of my words, I'd like to talk to you about a few things in that area. Congressmans, I'm going to talk to you about Article 19 of the proposal. This clause gives the President the power over the exchange-TL relationship of payments to the individual pension system of our citizens abroad. Since the Ministry of Economics has no predictions on the loss of value on Turkish lira, the power is passed on to the President as it is on everything in its day, so there's no need to talk too much about it. And even if we refuse, you'll agree. So I'd like to address your consciences in the time I have left and bring them to other matters that I hope may be able to change. Congressmans, I'm going to tell you today about the persecution of nature and human beings and the subsequent massacre of nature, a murder of law. The army's First Order is seeking to build a landfill in a field of natural wonder where water sources including the Teahead, the Twins, and the Fame are born. In the middle of the water supply -- to prevent it, to protect its right to life -- it's been there for 80 days in the middle of the country at minus 5-10 degrees. They said they were supposed to be clean for the tests the official authorities had taken from the streams around the dumpster, but they said it was so-called black water. They took samples of this water, accompanied by peasants, Mukhtars and gendarmes, and again at a public institution, at the Samsun Public Health Laboratory -- I have this official analysis report -- and they analyzed it, and organic and industrial waste at 40 to 50 times the normal level is in the water. What is the industrial waste doing in the water at the head of the plateau? The amount of harmful material in the water -- we call it a full dose -- is enough to kill a cattle. When the people objected, the state shut down the roads, and collapsed on the first man. The villagers were declared terrorists and questioned in police stations. And that's not enough, it's going to be a black mark on Turkish law history, followed by a method that the devil never even thought of. 37 people from the villagers -- they have a list here -- are being complained to municipal workers in the garbage field, not by normal laws, but by Turkey's special law, protection of women, protection of the family, even though there were no women from those who complained, and there was no family law between those who complained and those who complained, the decision was made without question because evidence would have been asked if it had been done with normal laws. Here it is clearly written on the document. It has been suspended without a search for proof. The lawyers stood up, objected, but again the governor was rejected by force. Then, one night in the First World raid, security forces intervened, and their mothers were clubbed to the children. Thus in Turkey, for the first time, women were clubbed by the law of protecting women, dear friends. The Governor of the Army, who could not protect Ceren Özdemir, maintains the garbage site under the First Amendment law to protect the woman. In the first place, these people wanted the government to see them as they waited under the snow at minus 10 degrees below, asking local televisions to see them, and they didn't. They begged the national media to let us out. If the government can't hear these beautiful people, the media can't see them, I'd like to put them on the stand, on the microphone. I'd like the governor, who went there months later, to listen to the villagers' address from here:
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0140par0398	Mr. Adil, we don't have that kind of procedure.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0141par0399	It doesn't make any sense.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0139par0400	I'm making the public listen. Dear friends, Mother Gülser says, "Please, please, we died on the stone in the mountain, please save us from this trouble." The gates of heaven are open to you, and the ways of the Cave are open to you. Can't the President hear us or see us? Another woman says, "What are we going to drink? What are we going to drink? We're freezing like coffins in this country. Don't you have a conscience when you're sitting in your seat?" The governor's answer gives you clues about conscience, and you've learned a good show. He says to these women, the 70-year-old Mother Gulser. My dear friends, does not our 70-year-old Mother Gulser see our suffering in the first 92 per cent of the AKP? In the army, I am the President's representative, the Governor of the AKP. He says, "You are doing a show to these mothers."
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0142par0405	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0139par0406	What else is he doing, Governor? In the army, he separates business people. He's taking a hospital canteen from an Army business person and giving it to someone else from outside the county, but what's interesting is, my dear friends, he's in jail for this tender fraud, and he's putting the same judge -- the same judge he used to protect the woman -- again, under the protection law. What else is he doing, Governor? As he poses for the media in the martyr association, a martyr stands up to his father with his legs crossed, giving advice, adjusting. That martyr's house hasn't been built yet. Yet he says, "Thank you, Father, and the other son in the army." And this is the martyr home that hasn't been built in eight months, and this is where I present it. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0143par0410	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first amendment of the 19th Amendment to some Laws in which there is a meeting be changed under the notice of the first article of Article 19 of the Law Proposal. Ayhan Erel İştinoğlu Muhammad Naci Cinisli Fahrettin Yoşüş Imam Hüseyin Filiz İsmail Tatüoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0144par0419	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0143par0420	Erzurum MP Muhammad Naci Cinisli. Here you go, Mr. Cinisli.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0145par0423	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our beloved nation and the General Assembly. In the 105th year of Çanakkale Bosphorus, I remember our heroic ancestors, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who valued the responsibility to save the country. At the very beginning of my words, I wish that the fight against the coronavirus, which is the most important topic of our agenda, will continue in the state-national solidarity, with respect for those against us, with the necessary seriousness. Let's not forget that the Coronavirus is a global crisis. The vital part of this global crisis, of course, is health, and the other very important part, which cannot be ignored, is the economy. We must protect our tradesman, our farmer, our industrialist, our tourist. Our business world can't leave this crisis without the mind and support of the state. Let's protect our country while the world's financial and commercial system is shaken. The countries affected by the Coronavirus are one by one explaining their effective economic measures, while we still dispute that the power should not reveal its protective economic measures. Dear lawmakers, again, we're discussing a bag of law in the palace. The new government system, which has been under way for nearly two years, has even shown the urgent need of transition to the improved parliamentary system, where we have a hundred and fifty years of experience, especially to divide the responsibility of statehood, to prevent it from defunctioning our Parliament. We need to understand that with this system and this bag of laws, we can't get anywhere. A bag of law proposals, which have never been seen as examples in the past period of power, reflects the understanding of the legislation of the AK PARTI government. This understanding, far from meeting the needs of the public and the demands of our citizens, also prevents the law enforcement activities that need to be done with the common mind and the reconciliation of the most important achievements of democracy. The provisions in the bag law proposal show that the economic crisis continues to deepen and become chronic. To insist on reasons that lead to such a grave painting, to ignore structural regulations, to follow a policy that further lends our country, rather than to protect our citizens, is to set it on fire. The clause I have promised is that Turkish citizens living abroad will be included in our individual pension system by paying a share of foreign currency, and the state contribution will be reduced from 25 per cent to 10 per cent. Of course, it is important to ensure that the savings of our citizens living abroad in foreign currency enter our country's economy, but it is more important to ensure that they act with the mind of the state in vital areas that directly affect development, such as democracy and consistent foreign policy. Because of our unstable domestic and foreign policy, we can't inspire confidence in the economy, we can't attract foreign investors to our country, and those with investments are seeking to leave our country. On the other hand, we are willing to pay serious interest to raise money from abroad; we can discuss laws that are willing to lend at least 10 per cent to include our citizens living abroad. As a result of the 2008 legal change, our expats who worked as members of the USSR were granted retirement for a day in Turkey. In 2014, it was announced that our expats would be eligible for retirement if they worked on their leave in our country. For that reason alone, shell corporations have been formed, exploiting our expats for money. Is the damage to this unresolved practice for the sake of the vote being tried by the new law? But please remember that wrong cannot be corrected by wrong. In our country, lack of domestic savings is one of the main economic problems. That's why we provide growth with resources from abroad, and when we don't have resources from abroad, growth slows down. We're having a crisis when this entrance is getting too thin. It has been recorded in the commission where we have about 7 million citizens in the individual pension system and have reached a amount of $106 billion, including the state contribution. In addition, the change was said to be expected in the next ten years, around 3 billion euros. With the income from here, the budget deficit will not close, nor will you attract the foreign investor, whom you can't inspire confidence. We'd like to know if we've been able to analyze the financial burden our treasure will carry if Turkish lira is constantly losing value. In this context, we would like to know if any work has been done on the cost of the contribution in exchange for foreign currency, as a result of the law intended to be removed. Dear lawmakers, there are, of course, institutions and states that would like to use capital in developed countries with low interest revenues to offer high interest.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0146par0434	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0145par0435	Thank you. Please visualize what this offer may bring to our country, which seems to be extremely innocent, as it turns out to be attracting the savings of our compatriots. Let's not forget what our residents' promises against their lawful money have led to in the past years, how the savings of our expats have been taken from them for years and years. Let's not have a new Jet Fadil, YMPAS, COMBASSAN. I fear that the AK PARTY will victimize our expats with a new deception after some of the old wrong practices. I ask that the government should not abuse the feelings of the people who have lived abroad for three generations, and I salute the General Assembly with respect.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0147par0439	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, there are 4 motions on Article 20, which are of the same nature. The first two motions I read are the same. I'll have them read the motions and process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 20 of Law Proposal No. 196 be removed from the text of the law proposal. Züleyha Gülüm Erol Kırcıoğlu Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Erdal Aydemir Kemal Bülbül Abdullah Koç The signatures of the other motion are: Ayhan Erel İştin Şahrettin Düyüş Hüseyin Örs İsmail Tatüoğlu Imam Hüseyin Filiz Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0148par0456	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0147par0457	İstanbul MP Erol Kadircıoğlu has spoken of the motion. Here you go, Mr. Mulecioğlu.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0149par0460	Mr. President, Dear Regents, I salute you all. Now, while we're talking about the 20th article of this law proposal, this offer basically passed the Plan and Budget Commission a few weeks ago, as you know, but a lot has changed in that time. Now, I'm looking at the clauses of this law proposal, which are essentially some incentives for the economy, in fact, at the same time associated with the president's statement today. So I told my dear Nilgun Haným who had an offer, and I thought it would be wise to withdraw it, but they said it wasn't, so they said we'd make a change tomorrow. Now, this 20th article, you know, is written to increase 25 billion support from the Credit Guarantee Fund to 30 billion, but I understand that the Justice and Development Party has just drafted a motion and wants to raise it to 50 billion. Now they're friends, so why 50 billion?
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0150par0462	Wrong?
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0149par0463	Sir?
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0150par0464	Are we saying it wrong?
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0149par0465	No, on the contrary, I say we raise it to 70 billion.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0150par0466	No, that's what you said on the Commission.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0149par0467	Look, let me tell you something.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0150par0468	You said the same thing on the commission.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0149par0469	Now, look, this is not enough money to cover the possible economic impact of the crisis when we think about it in relation to the crisis we're experiencing. So if you think about the money that other countries have set aside, for example, 1.2 trillion dollars in the U.S., 400-500 billion euros in Germany, that's not a very significant number anyway. But the truth is, of course, we need to help the COBIs, but the COBIs also have serious problems, and I think that such a decision, without saying anything about them, would be essentially a very palliative decision. I'll tell you one simple thing: 620 billion Turkish liras have been used as of today, and the SMEs are in total, and 10 per cent of them, 62-63 billion dollars, are now in the position to take on around 10 per cent suspects. Now, so let's, of course, support these companies, but let's not forget -- I'm going to come out here from time to time -- this financial expansion, especially, like the COBI, is not going to solve the problems of the already troubled. It's the law that proposes a way of creating a demand in a sense by being in debt. In fact, we have to make it clear that there is no response to the problems. And I'll tell you this: today, the issue of the COBI is not just about the SME, it's not about us, it's not about us, it's about Turkey in general. It's also a banking problem. Since the banking system in Turkey cannot be changed, the mortgage issues, which the banks in particular adopt in the matter of lending, inevitably create boundaries in banks' relations with the economy. Besides, I understand that's the government's main concern. Now, what does he do when he can't get over banking? 25 billion to 30 billion, 30 billion to 50 billion. But the problem -- the structural problem we call the Turkish economy problem -- is not solved the problem that was created on the banking relationship with the economy. So I think it's the right attitude for the SMEs to be supported in this sense, which is, of course, 50 billion. I have very little time left, but I'd like to say one more thing. Friends -- in the morning, though Mehmet Tiryaki spoke of my friend, and I am in need of highlighting this -- I think now that Recep Tayyip Erdoğan has a very important opinion that the world is much bigger than the five. But why is the world greater than five? Why is he objecting to this, Mr. President? Because it says: "Ya, there are 200 nations in the world, there are states, five states are deciding the fates of all." Now, friends, that's the right thing to do, but Mr. President is very incoherent, even though it's true here. Why is it inconsistencies? Look, guys, we're dealing with a virus called the corona virus.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0151par0475	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0149par0476	Thank you. It's as if, in this country, not interested in other political parties -- all different political parties are coming here as representatives of different segments in society -- they've explained the measures that will be taken today -- in court or wherever they've done it -- without our opinion in any way. Guys, this is inconsistency. Because the problem we're facing is that if there's a problem with us, it has to include all of us, the decisions that have been made. Now, when we try to connect what Recep Erdogan said about world politics -- which is my opinion, as of today -- to Turkey, the inconsistency comes naturally. So let me just say, this is not going to happen, folks, and I don't think it's possible to deal with the corona virus in this country tomorrow without the views of the political parties represented in this parliament.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0151par0479	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0149par0480	So please, friends, let's take this seriously. We are also the voices of those who have a problem with the same enemy here. So we have to create systems where our views can be taken. Look, in the Plan and Budget Commission, a week ago, with the participation of the Ministers, what impact would the Corona virus have on the economy? There's a Plan and Budget Commission meeting tomorrow, and we'll bring it up again. That attitude is wrong. Look, I'm telling you, it's wrong because it concerns the whole of Turkey. The parties that represent the political positions of all Turkey are also here, so I'm saying that the issue here in Parliament is a matter that must be dealt with together. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0151par0483	The order belongs to Hossain Orris, a member of the Tripoli MP. Here you go, Mr. Anres.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0152par0486	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Good Party on the 20th article of the law package. I salute you all with the utmost respect. Dear friends, today is March 18th, the 105th anniversary of Turkish history, which is written in gold. On the 105th anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale, I remember all of our martyrs and veterans, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our republic, and his comrades, with mercy and gratitude; I wish their souls to be in heaven. Dear lawmakers, as in the world, I'd like to begin by expressing my confidence and determination in the fight against the pandemic of coronavirus in our country at the top of the agenda. I find the administration of our Health Ministry and its struggle to be valuable, of course, but I also wish to consider our warnings to prevent any further negatives. Dear lawmakers, with this clause we're talking about, we're asking to be moved from 25 billion TL to 35 billion TL. While it is beneficial for businesses without sufficient collateral to access the loan they need and to increase the source to the credit guarantee institutions created in case the loans don't return, the risks for the Turkish economy that is experiencing a fluctuation do not mean eliminating them. It is true that the Credit Guarantee Fund will contribute positively to the access to financing resources for small and medium enterprises. Given the fluctuation of the Turkish economy, the role of the Credit Guarantee Fund is of great importance, and that is true. However, the Credit Guarantee Fund has played such a major role in the real economy, but it is also true that the Credit Guarantee Fund is inadequate in the sector because of the global crisis's negative impact on the Turkish economy and the timid approach of banks in funding. Dear lawmakers, increasing the resources of the Credit Guarantee Fund is a positive development, but it is not enough alone to resolve problems. Because small and medium-sized businesses have important problems including production, investment, supply and marketing problems, a lack of qualified staff and management, integration into technology and lack of legislation. The problems that have been faced are often unresolved because of lack of financial resources and the inconsistencies of the economic climate. The credit guarantee system contributes to strengthening the market economy based on free competition by guaranteeing loans to small and medium businesses. The Loan Guarantee Fund, which provides bail support for the SMEs, provides financing needed by the SMEs, also leaves room for more flexibility for banks. The banks also reduce risk levels because of the Loan Guarantee Fund bail. Increasement of the amount to transfer to the Credit Guarantee Fund will increase bail volume and its contribution to the economy, but in addition to increasing capital increase in the Credit Guarantee Fund, sectoral and regional expertise, risk assessment methods for companies given bailed out, fiscal and social control, creation of private insurance companies, ease for back payments in the future for companies in default. As far as bail demands are concerned, loan guarantee fund experts based on the risk assessments of banks may be able to write assessment reports on the company, but I think it would be much more useful to put the rating of the company's risk rates into practice. In the assessments of the Credit Guarantee Fund's resources for even healthier protection, it says that differences should be made for investment and business capital loans, and I salute you with my deepest respect.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0153par0494	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 20 of the Law Proposal to change some Laws in the following way. With all due respect. MADDE was replaced in the first joke of Article 20/28/3/2002 of Public Finance and Debt Management No. 4749 in the first article of the Act. Gamze Taşcıer Müzeyyen Şevkin Emine Gülizar Emecan Ankara Adana İstanbul Cavit Arı Saliha Sera Kadigil Süklü Okan Gaytancıoğlu Antalya İstanbul Edirne Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0154par0502	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0153par0503	Now Edirne MP Okan Gaytancıoğlu will talk about the motion. Here they are, Mr. Gaytancioğlu.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0155par0506	Dear lawmakers, today on March 18th, the Turkish nation has a major gain against imperialism, a war in which they are resurrected. Let's not forget Turgut Ozakman, the author of the novel "Resurrection" but let's not forget Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who brought us that glorious victory. Yeah, there's a corona on the agenda. Corona has affected everything. We take care of our health, we take care of our hygiene, but do we take care of our economy? The economy is very important, the large masses are in a lot of trouble. And I'm going to talk about the foundations in the bag of law. Foundations... have the most foundation stores in Edirne. The tenants make contracts, pay their rent after a long-term contract. Now, most tradesmen... so, how are the merchants going to sell? Any improvements? You've brought it into the law, and you say, "If you don't pay in three months, if you don't pay in 90 days, we'll give the governor authority on the ninety-first day, and we'll throw you out of the store." Do you want him to think about paying the trade tax, pay the insurance premium, think about what he's gonna take home tonight, give his wife Sunday money, give his kid an allowance? I've been dealing with all this, and it's a corona. E, many tradesmen have now had to close their shop. They have some payments. Are you making any of this any easier? No. But what do you bring with this bag of legislation? If the foundation can't pay its rent -- which it hasn't been paid by now -- but it's never been taken out of its store; it's been put into practice, it's been given to the lawyer, it's been paid in some way -- now you're saying, "It won't be, if you don't pay it in 90 days, I can throw you out on the authority of the head of the estate. Friends, the foundations inherit from our history, many people come here, local tourists come, go to mosques, worship. He asks about historical artifacts in the foundations, the shopkeepers in the store, or those who worked there: "Yahu, this mosque was built in what year?" Immediately, the shopkeeper gives information, and you look at it, and you look at it, and he buys something, and he buys it, and he buys it, so they live because of the merchants, so please keep the merchants alive. Look, the tradesmen are in trouble, and we'd expect you to say, "Well, there's corona, there's serious problems, let's postpone the loans of the tradesmen, let's give them low interest, long-term loans. Because they're in a tough spot. Yes, we've just received word that some improvement has been made, but it's not enough, my friends, that we don't know when or how long this is going to take, but thank you. Something's been done, but please remember that. Look, this bag is in the law, so, the bag law says that if he doesn't pay in three months, he'll be authorized by the property manager on day ninety-nine. Please rearrange this. Check it again, it'll go back to the old system. Because what did the shopkeeper do when he came in here, I mean, when he rented the store? He's got a long-term lease, a contract. And he never leaves his shop. Do people want to get out of the bread boat? They find it somewhere, they meet it, what do they do with their debt somehow? They're translating. Now, you say, "Friends, if you don't pay, I'll kick you out of your shop." Please, take a look at this, get the bag out of the law. Our tradesmen were very important, and we used to say, well, we used to say, well, it's a middle post. I mean, the tradesmen are the middle poles, my friends. The middle pole also makes his child read, makes him a business owner, so strangers come in, ask the shopkeepers where we can eat, where we can shop, where we can go, where we can live, where we can sit? The shopkeepers know everything, so let's protect our tradesmen and watch out. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0156par0514	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of Law Proposal No. 196 be changed in the form of ί35ίin the 20th Article of the framework. Cahit Özkan Ramadan Can Abdullah Güler Mustafa Demir Kemal Çelik İbrahim Aydın Yusuf Ziya Yilmaz Fehmi Albay Özalan Zemzem Gülender Açanal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0157par0525	We leave it at the discretion of the House, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0158par0526	Motive...
tbmm-2020-03-18sit02spe0156par0527	I'm reading the reason: The proposal aims to increase the maximum amount of cash from 25 billion euros to 50 billion euros, which can be transferred to loan guarantee institutions organised by Article 20 of the Law on the Order of Public Finance and Debt Management No. 4749. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit to your votes the 20th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The votes of the substances in the first section are complete. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-03-18sit03spe0156par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 70th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and put to your votes: At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors 18/3/2020 Wednesday (now), the following proposal was deemed appropriate for the General Assembly's approval. Cahit Özkan Özgür Special Mehmet Rütş Tiryaki Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party Peoples' Democratic Party His group is acting president of the vice president group in the name of the vice president of the vice president's group. Mohammed Levent Bul Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu Nationalist Movement Party GOOD PARTY His group is acting president of the vice president group. Speaking following an off-the-top talk by the executives in accordance with the second joke of Article 59 of the Interior Charter, the General Assembly's merger on Thursday (March 19th 2020), the political party groups were advised to be promised for fifteen minutes each. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 196. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Proposal Number 197. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Proposal 139. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions could not be found after this, the decision was made to discuss the legal proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order of Thursday (March 19th 2020). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
