tbmm-2020-12-10sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly. The need for a five-minute break just came from a technicality, not from a human boredom, and I wanted to bring it back to you. We opened the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the Central Management Budget Law Proposal for 2021 and the Central Administration's Final Accounting Law Proposal for 2019. Under the schedule, we'll be negotiating in the third round today. The third round includes the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, the Ministry of Energy and Energy Market Editing Agency, the National Bor Research Institute, the National Borial Research Institute for Mines and Petroleums, the National Institute for Research, Turkey's Institute for Atomic Energy, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services, the Association for Professional Qualification, the Government Staff's budget and final accounts. 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Nuclear Organising Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account MIDDLE DETECTIVE AND EARCH GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2019 Central Management Predictable Account ÜRKEY ATOM INVESTIGATION 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Occupational Qualification Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Occupational Qualification Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 Commission? He's in position. Members of parliament, under the decision taken, the talks on the tour will be pledged to the political party groups and to conduct their opinions in accordance with Article 62 of the Interior Charter. These times can be used by more than one speaker, and talks on behalf of individuals will take five minutes each. Also, when the talks are completed, the question-answer process will be done in ten minutes for questions, ten minutes for answers, and questions will be asked without justification. It's for your information. In the third round, I read the names of political party groups, executive and individuals, respectively: Peoples' Democratic Party Group: Ali Kenanoğlu, İstanbul MP; Muazzez Orhan Iş, Van MP; Ömer Ocalan, Şanlıurfa MP; Ayşe Acar Başaran, Batman MP; Filip Kerestecioğlu Demir, Ankara MP; Serpil Kemalbay Pekkeğ, İzmir MP; Diryet Dilan Taşdemir, Ağrı MP. Republican People's Party Group: Süleyman Girgin, Muğla MP; Ahmet Akın, Balıkesir MP; Ednan Arslan, İzmir MP; Tacettin Bayır, İzmir MP; Ahmet Önal, Kırıkkale MP; Ali Mahir Aşır, Mersin MP; Baha Güçı, Osmaniye MP; Erkan Aydın, Bursa MP; Metin İlhan, Kırşehir MP; Ali Fazıl Kütahya MP; Candan Yüzer, Tekirdağ MP; Ünal Demirtaş, Zonguldak MP. Justice and Development Party Group: Mehmet Sait Kirazoğlu, Gaziantep MP; Ahmet Mujahit Arinc, İstanbul MP; Metin Bulut, Alazığ MP, Ertunç Erkan Balta, Artvin MP; Ziver Özdemir, Batman MP; Iffet Polat Polat, İstanbul MP; Nevzat Shatıroğlu, İstanbul MP; Fuat Koktaş, Samsun MP; Ahmet Çolakoğlu, Zonguldak MP; Metin Yavuz, Aydın MP; Fatma Betul Sayan Kaya, İstanbul MP; Osman Nuri Gülar, Van Özer; İstanbul MP; Zöndık; İstanbul MP. Good PARTI Group: Yasin Ozturk, Denizli MP; Ayhan Altıntaş, Ankara MP; Aylin Gutler, Isparta MP; Imam Hüseyin Fitz, Gaziantep MP. Nationalist Movement Party Group: Abdurrahman President, Antalya MP; Tamer Osmanakaoğlu, İzmir MP; Sefer Aycan, Kahramanmarash MP; Arzu Erdem, İstanbul MP; Nevin Taşlıçay, Ankara MP; Ayşe Sibel Ersoy, Adana MP. Subjects: Salim İkintcioğlu, Çanırı MP. Executive: Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Fatih does not return; Minister of Family, Work and Social Services Zehra Emerald Selçuk. Subjects: Ayşe Driver vs. Şanlıurfa MP. Mr. Ali Kenanoglu, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0002par0059	Mr. President, Mr. General Assembly, I salute everyone. Yeah, it's December 10th. December 10th is the 72nd anniversary of the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We are on the 72nd anniversary of the Human Rights Day, declared by the United Nations to prevent mankind from experiencing this process again over the destruction, blood, tears, persecution, and all the negatives of this process. Of course, in the 72nd year of human rights, we are people who experience it very closely in the world and in our country. We're going through a process where blood, tears, persecution continues, where all kinds of oppression, under the name of terror, is carried out in the broadest form of persecution. We live in the Day of Human Rights at a time when the power that cannot rule the country by antidemocratic means increases all kinds of pressure and persecution because it knows that peaceful policies will be the end for him. We're also on the anniversary of a process in which every day operations against our party, especially because of the Kurdish problem, are being detained by our politicians every day. I'd like to remember here our friends, who were imprisoned in prison for December 10th on the grounds of Human Rights Day. Dear Ayhan Bilgen, dear Alp Altınörs, dear Nazmi Gür, Ayla Akat Ata, Emine Mirror, Bircan Yorulmaz, Berfin Özgöse, Dilek Yağli, Can Memiş, Günay Kublai, Bkent Künlü, Pervin Oduncu, İsmail Shengül, Jahan Erdal, Zeki Çelik, Ali Ürküt, and our teacher Emine Beyza Ün, were taken into custody and taken prisoner under the latest protests by Kobani protests. Also Gültan Kışanak, Sebahat Tuncel, Selçuk Mızraklı, Bekir Kaya, Aysel Tuğluk, the sons of Musa Faris, Abdullah Zeydan, İdris Balaken, Çağlar Demirel and our proud former Co-Chairs Figen Yüksekdağ and Selahattin Demirtaş. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, when it's called the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, we're talking about a Ministry that directly address the public's pouch, especially because of the fact that we're in winter, electricity and natural gas bills directly affect people's lives, affecting their budgets. I want to tell you directly -- especially yesterday -- there was an argument with the public about electricity bills, and I want to talk about it -- how some electrical bills burned our pockets, how they burned our purses. That bill belonged to my colleague, my advisor, who brought it this morning. A month's electricity bill is $276.40. In Ankara, the cold has not yet felt itself, nor has it snowed. And the gas bill came in about 700 lira this month, 690-something, even close to 700 lira gas bills. So, what's this electric bill made of? Of course, I told you earlier on the electric bill from this podium -- there's a blackout bill being applied, so there's a bag of bills being applied, and we're looking at a bill that doesn't have all your pencils open, and it's collected in three main pens. When you look at it, these pens contain energy costs, distribution costs and tax funds. These, for example, are the energy cost of this $276 bill, which is the electric cost of 144 lira 54 cents. 78 lira of this bill is the cost of transmitting, missing fugitives, meter reading and distribution. So these are actually the parts that go to the company's share. And there's taxes and funds, and these are 53 liras, and these are the TRT share, the Energy Fund, the municipal share, and the VAT. So in a total of $276, there's actually only 144 lira worth of consumption. There was an argument in the public yesterday: there was a debate about retail sales service, and it was said that the representation and hospitality costs of electricity companies will be added to the bills. After that -- this was the most talked about issue in Twitter -- the EPDK made a statement, and said: "This is a lie, there is no such thing. This is not true. This is not true." And then we looked, and we said, "What's not true?" And the right part was, "This is not new, it's been applied since 2015." That's the right part. I mean, electrical companies' representations and hospitality have been reflected in our bills since 2015. We can't see it on the invoices because a bag of invoices is being applied, so there's a dark bill. And since we couldn't see it, it only shows up when some of the decrees have been reviewed and so on, and it turns out that this has actually been on the invoices since 2015. Now, there's a situation where electricity bills increase by 5.75 in three months, from 71 cents to 75 cents, a total increase of 32.3 per cent compared to last year, so the cost increase in the sector is a dollar increase and cost increase in the sector. The dollar doesn't affect us, we don't get paid by dollars, but the price increase in electricity in our house continues to be explained as dollars. The electricity bill for 100 lira a month three years ago comes to us today at $172. It's a direct ratio that affects us, and electricity has increased by about 70 percent in three years, up 80% in natural gas. And how much has the minimum wage been raised in three years? When you collect it, it all comes to 44%. I mean, it's completely affecting people's lives, and the bills really are affecting our lives right now, the lives of the citizens. When you collect electricity, natural gas, water, and other mandatory costs, we face a bill that corresponds to a third of a family's income, a quarter of a family's. Now, we propose here -- we propose in the commission, we propose again -- that the minimum consumption price of the citizen must be determined, so the minimum amount of electricity, water, natural gas for a family of four must be determined. Especially in these pandemic conditions, these should be provided for free to a certain limit, to a certain quota. So the citizen will spend this winter especially at home, and all of these problems, troubles, and expenses will increase even more. Dear friends, of course, when you call it the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, it's also a matter of our nature, our natural life, our natural environment. Because of the abuse of our country, the renewable types of energy that should be supported by the HESEs, the JESSES, the RESESTs, in fact, as a whole, are now in a position that we can't support because of the regulations in the interest of companies and large conglomerates, because companies have become supported, as well as in this pandemic process, the loss rates of companies have been achieved to compensate for their losses. In particular, the persecution of the grandfather in the region continues, my friends. Each party's representative came out here and described what DEDAŞ had done as persecution. DEDAŞ feeds himself from here: The missing fugitive and he is trying to justify the use of illegal electricity especially in the geography. I have prepared a report as a member of the Energy and Natural Resources Commission, which I will soon share with the public, in the form of a missing fugitive report on electricity. We also met with DEDAŞ, we also met with TEDAS, we also met with electricity producers in the region, and we met with various NGOs. We've drawn reports on this issue, all of which we've put in data from the EPDK, the Department of Energy data, and it's really nothing more than the failures of companies such as DEDAS, their own neglects, the tasks they did not do, the damage caused by the failures of power, the tendency to pin on the people of the region as a whole, the initiative and perception. AT THE moment, DEDA is oppressing the region, and it's even taking over people's agricultural support incentives.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0003par0073	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0002par0074	Today, power must end the persecution of the grandfather. DEDAS conducts an application that eliminates public people's livelihoods, the country's agriculture opportunities, and its mission is to ride on the consumer's back as a whole without exposing the investments it needs to do. Because the large percentage of these missing fugitives is not illegal, they're missing. With this report, we've put it out there, we'll explain it, everyone will see it. Losses are also a loss of electricity on its way to the user, since electricity companies do not make the investments they're supposed to make. So it's nothing more than trying to pin their own crimes, their own crimes, their profits on the people of the region, and trying to increase the negative impact on them through perception. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0003par0077	Mr. Muazzez Orhan Light... Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0004par0080	Mr. President, distinguished members, I salute the General Assembly and all the people who are watching us at the beginning of the screens. It's World Human Rights Day. In this process of the highest level of right violations in our country, I respectfully salute all our friends, including Figen Yüksekdağ, Selahattin Demirtaş, who have been declared entitled to freedom of thought and political rights in violations. [[Applause from HDP rows]] As you know, energy and ecology are one of the most fundamental agendas in the world. Energy involves the potential to destroy nature and humanity with its production size, and it requires a unique discussion, especially because women and poor people have access issues with the consumption dimension. The TMMOB Energy Report, which was released this week, sums up the energy policy of the power policy of the occupations, which you do not take into account when bringing in this budget, as experts and engineers of this business, is the decision and practice of the people to reject public planning, control, production, invalidate public resources, and increase the interests of certain capital groups. Fossil fuels are running out, nature is disappearing. Electricity and natural gas bills are rising rapidly; poor people, women, unemployed, as a whole, society achieves less energy at more cost. Living life is being destroyed by the HESS, which you have not received the CED report. With nuclear energy projects, the country is in debt and the economy collapses. Despite the people who live in the region, your HESEs, your REMS, your NES, your coals, and your gold mines, they are made, and they drive the bee out of its hive, and the bear out of its habitat. The people do not want the Green Road Project to be looted by the Kaz Mountains. The people do not want history destroyed in Hasankeyf. The public is objecting to preventing these massacres and stopping the natural plunder, but you're trying to silence, suppress, suppress the people who claim their nature, their history, their life, and their resistance to it by using the difficult devices of the state. Ten thousand years of history, the savings of dozens of civilizations, you have sacrificed to the rate of your own time. You don't back down a minute from spending public resources for the allies, for the monopoly. Energy prices are cheap all over the world, and oil prices are low, and you're selling raised gas and electricity to this country's industrialist, its tradesman, its citizen. As stated in TMMOB's report, you continue the construction of surplus, unscheduled, unscheduled and natural-killing facilities without slowing down speed. Since the beginning of 2019, electricity and gas prices in households have increased by close to 40 per cent. And the income of those who live in these households has increased? Of course not. And do you know what these increases mean in minimum wage households below the hunger line? You don't know that either. People like you don't live in palaces, they live for a lifetime in debt. You want the public to work as a slave for electricity, natural gas, credit debts, under the border of hunger and poverty, and not to make a sound. Since your tax-feeding subsidiary companies have failed to fulfill their responsibility, the missing illegal costs are reflected in the public with inflated bills. So much so that even if you don't turn off the switch and use electricity at home, the bill comes in at the end of the month. Furthermore, a notice issued five days ago has been determined to add electricity bills to the expenditures of electricity distribution and supply companies, such as representation, hospitality, travel, ads and so on. You've created companies that exploit people from your VEDASH to your DEDAS. As in oil, electricity increases to consumers, discounts to your companies. Your energy policy, called privatisation, has suddenly become able to sell BOTAS and TPAO overnight. It's only a matter of time before these institutions, which are in the asset fund, are sold by this government, which is owed by loan-sharking interest. There's no corruption, no looting, no looting, no corruption by a government that took public banks years later because you couldn't get a loan to the person you sold TELECOM to, because you couldn't collect the loan. Dear friends, one of the nuclear initiatives involving the risk of mass extinction is the Sinop plant. The cost of waste fuel has not been taken into account in the CED report, not included in the cost of the plant, nor has it been specified how to store it in the project site for 60 years. Again, we need to see that the Akkuyu plant was established in an area where earthquakes occurred, and that no measure could prevent the damage of an earthquake of over seven magnitudes. Each of the two plants are trying to make agreements under the international law. For Akkuyu, 15 years are guaranteed purchases for Sinop for 20 years. The owners of both plants will be foreign companies, and electricity guaranteed to buy will be bought back for dollars. The price is more than 2.5 times the market average in recent years and the total price of electricity in Europe. It is also impossible to compensate for the damage caused by nuclear power plants in the event of a major accident. With this rant madness, you're breeding the stones of social disaster. In energy, it's not a violent consumption that needs to be done. You've got a lot of projects that don't need the public, causing light pollution, turning cities into energy dumps, so let's stop the pollution projects that are going on right now. To reduce this unnecessary production will also ease the problem of external addiction in energy. Now for the social gender dimension of our energy policy. Since the budget is based on inequality as a whole, the gender inequality of energy is not exactly visible. On March 8th last year, I asked all the ministries how activities in their ministry affected women who were half the population, how much women were involved in these activities, and the percentages of women's employment -- management. It's almost another March 8th, and there are still ministries that don't respond. The absence of our motions should be a matter of the House and the Speaker of Parliament. I asked the Department of Energy how many people have been cut in a year because their electricity and gas bills can't be paid. The ministry couldn't explain how 4.3 million electricity and about 1 million gas bills were cut because they weren't paid, but how many of them were women's. Why? Because your database is sexist, your budget is molten, and your point of view is not sensitive to gender equality. Turkey has turned its energy field into such a troubled area, it is influenced by the sexist sector of the industry and its functioning from top to bottom. Women are kept away from education and career opportunities. Women are considered secondary labor force in almost every sector. Women's work is being devalued; the Mobbinge is more exposed to harassment. This social structure, which is deprived of women, is subjected to violence and abuse, is being reconstructed by the encouraging policies of power. It is the mentality of women's murders and abuses that bring forgiveness to women's murderers and child abusers through the last act of execution, who are constantly seeking to rebuff the women's rights. The mentality that rubs the backs of Moses Orhans creates new abusers, rapists, and child abusers. Don't drag society into this rotten abyss. Apply the Istanbul Convention and Law No. 6284. The biggest obstacle to women's hard work and their free life is revealed in the policies and institutions that you operate in the male state mentality. The reason for your sexist and anti-natural energy policies is that women are less involved in energy production, women's perspective is not reflected in energy policies. When I started out, the industry was almost entirely composed of fossil fuels and male employees. The employment of more women in engineering would be the first step in stopping energy policies from becoming enemies of society, women and nature. The most dramatic picture of inequality in the career is in the field of energy. How many of the department's top unit managers are women? There's a title in the general budget called empowerment of a woman. It's good to have a title like that, guys. It's exciting to hear.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0005par0094	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0004par0095	The total budget for this, however, is not 3 per cent in the total budget, but 3 per thousand in the thousand, I'm afraid. The AKP's budget for women's empowerment is 3/10ths per 10,000, friends. This budget is gender-blind from head to toe. The men's budget of molten mentality is, of course, against man, woman, nature, society. We do not accept this budget, which is prepared for capital, for palace, for war, for women, for workers, for farmers, for tradesmen, for people. Yours truly.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0005par0098	Mr. Omar Ocalan. Here you go, Mr. Ocalan.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0006par0101	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute our patriotic people from here. We're here on the basis of a 12-day budget marathon. The entire budget consists of 1 trillion $346 billion, about 1 trillion of which will be taxed from the public. See, when you're budgeting in a country, when you're building the budget, you're going to look at the democracy of that country, the human rights, the legal system, and then you're going to examine which mechanisms are referred to in the distribution of revenues, whether this budget is fair or unfair. Those who don't see the country's economic crisis, those who don't see people screaming "I'm hungry" in the street, of course, do it to their own people, their own people, and they try to design society that way. Friends, our patriotic people, we have a democracy problem in this country. There's a big legal problem in this country. Today is the Day of Human Rights. Every day, every minute, every second of this country is violated. Look, they've turned the prisons into a prison camp. Think of a Minister of Justice who prides himself on his prison. Some cities' ruling lawmakers view the city's prisons as a job. In a country where antidemocratic practices are being rescinded, where will you hold the economy, where will you discuss it? Look, it's Human Rights Day, as we're talking about today. In prison, dozens are on hunger strike - today, on their 13th day. The Minister of Justice was here yesterday, do they have anything to say about it? Unfortunately, they don't have anything to say about it. In Imralı, the isolation has begun again, and this isolation is to be carried out heavily and to be accepted into society by the public. You have to respect your law, your laws. All prisoners and prisoners in prison have the right to speak to their lawyers, family, and family. You need to give up this double standard as soon as possible. Look, we made it; we're a negotiation party. We refer to ourselves in the resolution of all social problems. And we don't have to. You've seen in the elections, there are municipalities that have been taken from us. You'll find something heavier. You need to give up your persecution of these people as soon as possible. Dear friends, there are people who can't make the end of the month. The worker, the employee, the pensioner, the pensioner have problems; the non-assigned teachers have problems; the people who live in retirement have problems; the people who can't plant their land -- 60 percent of the land in the Plains of Mezopotamia this year -- there is a problem with the non-inflicted worker and the unemployed; women, young people have problems. With a public perspective, you could solve the problems of our people, but the work, the power, the approach has become a eunuch. You're trying to create an atmosphere through sloganistic, racist, religious policies. We, of course, are here in the first place to talk about law, justice... your Minister of Justice is talking about reform. It's not like the Justice Minister of this country has been in power in this country for 18 years. He and his junior partner are breaking the law, talking about reform. You can't succeed with the envy, with this irrational state mind, with the violence you've been exerting on people. With pressure, you can only assume that you're suppressing your reaction to the effect you're making right now. You're using the armband as a stick on the way social groups go out and make a press release, express themselves. Look, fault lines are alive in this country, so don't feel uncomfortable. Both the social fault lines are alive and the deep structures within the state are alive. There's no chance there won't be a coup in this country tomorrow, but you feel like you have all the power in your hands right now. Go to the border provinces, friends, the press is reflected; a 16-year-old friend of ours died from a soldier's shooting. Between 2009 and 2014, 110 of our people were killed by a firearm opened by soldiers on the border line in Van, Hakkari, Şırnak, Urbana, Mardin. Do you have any words for that? No. You're talking about smuggling. Other things... these people are civilians. If people in this country go to other countries to smuggle money, it's a shame to have power. Give people their economic well-being, so people don't smuggle. We don't accept cheap talk, terrorist accusations. You can't accuse this country's third largest party of 6 million votes of terrorism. It's a controversial concept, according to whom, according to what? According to the non-rational mind, according to the hammock, according to the racist, of course, according to the nationalist, you describe the HDP as a terrorist of the Kurdish people's will. We don't accept cheap approaches like that, rude rhetoric. If you have a claim, you will solve the decades-old social problems through negotiation, a model for social problems, but by the will of the public, our former Co-Chair, Selahattin Demirtaş, and all his companions, thousands of them are currently imprisoned in prison camps, and some of them have been punished. You won't succeed with these accusations. You're trying to fuel the hatred of the people. You're trying to create space from a hostile society.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0007par0110	You're doing it, you're doing it, you're doing it! You're doing it!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0006par0111	There's talk of budgets, yesterday's issue is a eunuch. You can't change perceptions.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0007par0112	You're doing it! You, you're doing it!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0006par0113	We're in an economic crisis in this country. You cannot change perception by attacking HDP (HDP) with nationalism, racism.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0007par0114	You're doing it! You're doing it!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0006par0115	The president mentioned today that they're going to help Tunisia with $5 million. Friends, of course help is important. Look at your country. Minimum wage is $2,300. The minister is here, they're discussing minimum wage, they're talking. Friends, there are people who live in the lowest layer of society, living in slave conditions. Your prosperity level is extraordinary; you're really alive, in front of you, in the back of what you don't eat. You have to think about all the social areas. You can talk about the kandil. The minister spoke here yesterday. The prosecutors, judges, prosecutors, judges in the congregation; 4-5000 judges in the prison, prosecutors. What are you guys here? What have you been doing for 18 years? Five thousand judges handed out justice within the state. The judge you call a member of the Kandil and the congregation, the prosecutors, sentenced our traveling companions for decades, and why didn't you break it? Why didn't you put the state's prosecutors in charge? It's not working for you, is it? When prosecutors and judges punish Kurds, they come to your benefit when they punish HDP people. You also walk with the congregation, and you share with the congregation.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0008par0118	You're taking the girls to the mountain, to the mountain.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0009par0119	No one punished the Kurds. Terrorists were punished, Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) were punished.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0006par0120	But we can't listen to these stories. Look, we're pointing out that HDP is a party with aesthetics. With speech, dialogue... but you sold out your traveling companions. You came from the same channel, you came from the same vein. Don't deny it, get up here, give this people a little self-criticism. Dozens of people in this country are now victims. You put dozens of undocumented people in prison under the name of Cemaat. Your business with the elders of the congregation continues.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0010par0121	Name, name. If you know, who are they?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0011par0122	Tell me about the mothers in Diyarbakır.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0006par0123	These problems will be solved, my friends. Turn around while the road is close.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0011par0124	You're a racist!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0012par0126	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0006par0127	It doesn't work out by yelling or calling. By "terror," you mean...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0013par0128	Yeah, what's your last name?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0006par0129	I'm proud of my last name.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0014par0131	That's why you're here, because of your last name.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0006par0132	I'm proud. Know that very well. I'll continue to live by that name, but not by such aggressive policies.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0015par0133	He brought you here with that last name!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0006par0134	In this land, the people brought me here, and the will of our people brought me, and the 300,000 votes of Urbana brought me. Don't stand in front of the people, don't stand in front of the coupgers. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Guys, you can't solve things by yelling. We called it Human Rights Day. We don't agree, you have to respect our opinion, respect the will of the people. We'll continue to run democratic political channels. We stand by the working class; we stand by the elderly in retirement; we stand by the oppressed, the victims. We're here with dialogue, negotiation, despite all this rude talk, we'll work it out. I salute our people.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0016par0139	Mr. Ayþe Acar Başaran... Here you are, Mr. Basian.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0017par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I salute everyone, especially our comrades in prison and our people, who are watching us on their screens. Dear friends, we've started the budget marathon, and we've been discussing the budget for three days. Let me rephrase a few things we've said over the last three days: this budget is not the public budget, but the budget of war, the budget of the war, the budget of the rank, the budget of the support, but also the budget of the man. Now, why do we call it the men's budget? Of course, some of our female friends may disagree because it's a matter of mentality, and we're going to turn it, together, relax. Now, dear friends, as we talk about budgets, we are very aware that this budget is not a budget for gender equality in a way similar to the previous years. However, although this is not a budget for gender sensitivity, I would like to share with you a few things that women have experienced. Now, we already know that power has a male-dominated perspective, and that it has a role in the family -- just like in the Ministry -- and it's constantly attacking and targeting women outside of it. The basis of power's women's policy is sexist labor exploitation, domestic labor exploitation... now, if a woman is going to work, let her conduct a study within the house based on the possible sexism of gender roles, but not in social life. And yet, according to the policies currently run by the government, women are being forced to care for the sick and the elderly inside the house under the name of social aid, and these are added to the figures, unfortunately, statistics, as if women were involved in employment. In Turkey, 49 per cent of women are domestic workers, 11 million 741 women do not participate in working life due to housework, while 444,000 women leave their paid jobs due to housework and maintenance services. Women are constantly imposed on poverty and insecurity in this country. Look, in a study conducted by the Rosa Women's Association, 96 percent of women have expressed that their basic problems are poverty, and we know very well that poverty actually triggers violence, and that women can't get away from areas of violence because of poverty. A large number of women are not insured for themselves, friends; a large number of women can either benefit from health insurance through their parents or spouses in this country. In this country, only 17 percent of women retire, while 81 percent of men retire. And dear friends, of course in pandemic, women were more impressed. Already sexist policies and war policies run by the government have narrowed down women's living space. Women faced this constantly provoked manhood in society, while facing the violence of power, but more unemployment and poverty during the pandemic period. Look, I'm just going to give you a number from the statistics. According to a survey conducted by the DİSK, the rate of unemployment revised by Covid-19 has been 45.3%, so 5 million 219,000. Now, many studies have revealed that women are becoming more poor in the pandemic process. One reason is that women were already working unsecuredly, and women were already being used as additional workers, so women were more affected by this pandemic. Stay home. Women became poorer during this pandemic period because their home obligations were constantly burdened with gender inequality and sexist policies. Yes, dear friends, you know we've applauded the health workers since the first day of the pandemic. Look, 70 percent of these health workers have been most affected by women and pandemics, but unfortunately the budget has not made any arrangements for women's health workers in the process. Women faced great difficulties both in the field of work and both psychologically and physically and even in health, and when they returned home, the challenge increased by adding to their burden of care. Friends, immigrants and refugee women -- immigrants and refugees have been used as a constant leverage against Europe in terms of power, but we already know that the government is running this policy, in fact, against refugees. Besides, the refugees were constantly facing racism, always working unsecuredly, having to work in sub-stairs. However, during this process, with especially pandemics, the highest number of refugee women have been affected by the process. According to the Women's Solidarity Foundation, refugee women are one of the most sexually abused, violent segments. Since these women were not citizens -- 6284/e -- they are not refugees and refugees -- the Syrians, in particular -- were considered guests, so they faced more violence because they could not benefit from 6284. Again, dear friends, power carried out policies that fueled constant violence. Istanbul's Convention has launched a debate, has launched a debate on 6284, by appointing trustees to our municipalities, by targeting our co-chair system, our equal representation policy, permanently, women have become more targets with policies in this pandemic process. According to the first ten months of 2020, look -- there are a lot of different numbers -- about 250 women lost their lives, were slaughtered by men; 122 women were harassed, 226 children were abused, 79 women were raped. We don't know what the numbers are because even though we've asked the Ministry very persistently, these numbers are not clear. And while this violence has escalated, unfortunately, the violence of the uniforms and those close to power has been protected by power, especially as in Silk Er and Nadira Kadirova. Okay, guys, I just told you, why are our municipalities being targeted, why is the co-chair system so criminal based on power? Because from a monogamous, male-dominated point of view, they have a government, a sense of power. The alternatives against this have been targeted by anti-female policy. The last time the Home Office published a report. According to this report, I'm speaking from terror in a manner of speaking -- decontaminated municipalities... In fact, they've established decentralized municipalities. Because the women's institutions were shut down, men led by women's apartments, the co-chair system was terrorized and tried to eliminate the woman's social and political place in her life. So, what was done in that highly targeted women's municipality? The co-chair, with the system of equal representation and also with the budget of gender-sensitive women, has been granted equal use of this budget, service, in every aspect of their life. Dear friends, our municipalities have been targeted because we have accomplished what power has failed for 18 years. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Now, we're going to propose a few suggestions because we're also going to set up a budget as a HDP Women's Assembly, because we know that, at this time, there will be no social-sex-sensitive budget work -- despite our suggestion -- will not be on the basis of a participating budget. How can we make a real gender-sensitive budget with women who are involved in many women's institutions, activists, academics? Social gender-sensitive budgeting isn't just the establishment of obvious mechanisms when women get violent. We debated that women -- half of society, who are considered extinct -- can't even benefit from the budget -- would take advantage of that budget in all areas of society. According to this, we would like to share with you a few suggestions: it's women's demand that women's labor be seen, women's employment increase, women's poverty end, social gender-sensitive budgeting. Our demand is not just for shelters, women's centers, but for the budget to end the inequality and discrimination we face in every aspect of life. Every budget item discussed should be based on a budget that is sensitive to gender.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0018par0158	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0017par0159	The budget's debate and approval process should be opened to citizens but especially women's participation, a public-friendly language that everyone understands, because -- even most of our representatives here -- we don't really understand what's in this budget. Women's organisations must be included in the debates in the budget process in order to have a budget that is sensitive to social gender. There must be policies that encourage girls' education, and for that, a special budget must be set aside. The current transfer costs of ministries and organisations they are connected to must be carried out by a social-sex-sensitive spending. The man who wins the bread has to break the social security framework around him. There must be a budget arrangement for women prisoners with adequate funding. The tax system presents many problems in terms of gender. The tax system must also be made sensitive to social gender. It's not about welfare, it's about social rights. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] President, for expressing women's opinions...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0019par0166	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0017par0167	Thank you. It's not welfare; it's social rights and budgets that lock women away from the inside of the house. The concept of social gender was removed from most employment documents. These should be added again and before budgeting is done, and how should a preliminary report study work be done on the social gender-sensitive budget? In order to solidify the family, these sources given to the Dianetite must be transferred to women. Women who have had to work at home during the pandemic process should be relieved of their needs and should be given up on trustee politics assigned to our municipalities, which has again been targeted, exhibiting the example of female municipalism. I'm just saying that we can all create a budget that's really women's names and women's. Thank you, guys.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0020par0171	Mr. Filiz Kerestecioğlu. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0021par0174	Mr. President, dear friends, I first, from our friends Gültan Kışanak, Shevin Alaca, Selçuk Mızraklı, Ayhan Bilgen and all arrested co-chairs, İbrahim Binici, Alp Altınörs, Dear Beyza Üntün, especially our fellow workers who strengthened our labour policy, Günay Kubilay, Bircan, Cancan, İdris Balukeni, Çağel, Çağl.u, Aysel Tuğlü, Sebahat Tuncel. I also salute all human rights defenders today on the basis of Human Rights Day. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, one of the final decisions of the Judiciary is that the man who abuses his wife and the woman who does not do housework is equally flawed. You didn't hear wrong, it equates violence with household work, final decisions of the Supreme Court. Now, I've seen examples of this in my career, and we've fought against them a lot, years ago, because she talked to someone, because she went out of the house, because she didn't cook well, we've actually seen that they're even with the violent. But seeing it today, it's a little hard on our patience now, to be honest. Now, it's clear to us that the relationship between the violent male sovereignty of this judiciary and the budget that puts the woman in the family alone is very clear to us. Again, in this budget, the responsibilities of the state and the management of poverty are on women's backs. And we say, if you really want women to get stronger, to make themselves available freely, then offer the care responsibility as a public service. 17 million citizens need social support, and growing social benefits each year actually allow people to survive only in poverty. We say: "Security is not enough, it's a guaranteed job for women, it's an investment in public services, and it's an investment in fighting violence. The answer in the budget is the same: there is no increase in the number of shelters in the UN, no economic guarantees for women, no structural employment policies. Social services have been given to the administration of the religious or pro-government foundations and associations. The care of patients and non-patient family members, children who can't go to day care and school, all weighed twice as heavily in the pandemic and burdened women. On the other hand, while the whole world was warning you, you didn't even see that shutting down at home in the pandemic has increased the violence of women. We see in the budget that there will be no increase in the number of CENTURY, which is now 81, so for example, women in Istanbul, which has a population of 20 million, will be able to manage with 1 SHURM. Women's unemployment and young unemployment are on the rise as ever. Pandemide domestic women were completely unsecured and unemployed. Dear friends, in our country, 10 million workers -- almost half of all paid employees -- get paid around minimum wage, and 3.3 million workers don't even get a minimum wage. I mean, the minimum wage has already become the average wage. Now, we're saying this over and over again, and I've also written that it's not understood: 10 million workers actually work for $2.320 and 3.3 million workers at an even lower price. Is he right? I think I've seen enough. For example, in 2006, the average household income doubled its minimum wage, while in 2019 it declined by 1.4 percent. I mean, even a double shift a day doesn't make it over the poverty line. We are number two in the world for the increase in food price; Argentina is number one. What's another one of the biggest expenses except basic needs? Taxes that citizens pay to the government. Minimum wagers work for taxes and other cuts a hundred and twenty-two days of the year; we have only one thing to say: The minimum wage must be tax-free and there must be 4,000 liras. (Applause from the Peoples' Democratic Party) (Applause from the Peoples' Party) (Applause from the Peoples' Party) (Applause from the Peoples' Party) (Applause from the Peoples' Party) (Applause from the Peoples' Party' Party) The minimum wage must be tax-free and $4,000. Now it's really enough to put money on the sidelines, a little conscience! Dear friends, the workers also have to work nose to face with Covid. I'd like to tell you what a shipyard worker said. The service is gathering workers from many shipyards, not one shipyard; they are packed; if one is positive, they will infect everyone. Traffic sees security, doesn't say anything about the services, who you're going to complain to. Let them come, check it out, see how the service comes in the morning, how the evening turns. The toilets in the shipyards, the showers are already a shithole, which is worse than Covid. Our dock worker friend says. What about the free leave? They can't get out of work or get a job. They're standing there, waiting at home. So, is it cheap to stay home? Waiting at home, spending more electricity, more water -- the increase in electricity has exceeded 80 per cent in the last three years -- they have to eat at home now while eating at the factory, and the children at home, everyone at home, have more household loads to spend money on. Before short work grants and free permits are imposed, women shoot workers, a large number of workers feel compelled to work for lower wages with this fear, and companies who run advertising on March 8th can fire women without compensation when they demand their rights, such as working women who have been expelled from the Vestel Manisa Factory trying to make their voices heard against this injustice. The sign of power, my friends, is that crime, forgiveness, destruction of nature, pay for it, and you will be merciful. And that's exactly what the working life is. Everyone knows, the bosses don't invest the insurance on the money they pay, you're making a pardon on the insurance charge the boss didn't pay on purpose. And you get all the money you get from the unemployment fund, the people you pay 39 lira a day for. Today, the President's salary is 30 times the minimum wage, 30 times the number of friends. See this, now, the convoy's going in the back, of course it doesn't fit in the photo, so you can only see the front, but the convoy's actually going in the back a lot. It's a terrible cliff. So, now, what's the situation in those countries you don't like at all? For example, how many times in Germany? 16 times more than 9 in France, 5 times less in Ireland, and 30 times more in us, and the president's salary will go up to 88,000 lira a month in 2021, and his salary will be 123,000 lira with a pension of $35,000. Now, in the budget bid of 2021, public administrations under the general budget were earmarked for $1 trillion 223.5 billion. The president will be able to spend a thousandth of this as secret service expenses. In this account, the amount Erdogan will use as he wishes is 6 billion 115 million liras. How dare you? What's the mystery of? In fact, we've seen a lot of atrocities being done by calling these secrecys, secret services, the state secret. There are reports of silences out there. What right is there to spend hidden money, hiding from the public, hiding from us? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm gonna have to ask for a little more time.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0022par0189	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0021par0190	You don't have the right to pay $2.320 for the ring and take $83,000 for yourself on the moon -- today -- and you can't get private shares from all over the budget, and you don't have that right. The president's salary, as well as the Treasury guarantees to the supporters, is the source of the taxes of the citizens, and the public is never, ever willing to waste taxes like this. We don't accept that. Yeah, I've got a lot more to say now, actually. Young unemployment is really important. You say young people don't like work. For example, an AVM president was saying: "The most burning problem in Turkey is young unemployment; one out of 3 young people are unemployed; we are creating jobs for them here. " Some of the young people who work in those malls are biologists, some teachers, others are medics, some are engineers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] President, the last...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0023par0194	Let's bow.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0021par0195	Well, isn't it a shame about these young people? Do they not like the work you have created for them, or do they dislike the things you have created for them? Yes, we need a radical change now; it's not going to be reformed or anything like that, dear people. We really need a radical change, the public needs a budget. The minimum wage should be $4,000 tax-free. Every pensioner must have $2,500 a month. That's all I can say for now. We need to solve the problems of the YIT. That's what the public needs. The public's tax budget should be spent on the public, period. Thank you, my respects. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0024par0200	Mr. Serpent Kemalbay will speak. Here you are, Kamalbay Pedal.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0025par0203	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I'd like to start by greeting the workers in the resistance today. The Atlasglobal company workers are resisting, hello to the Atlasglobal workers. Bimeks workers resist; hail the Bimeks internalists. Vestel workers resist, hail the Vestel workers. The Soma workers, the Ermenek mine workers, are resisting, and salute the Ermenek mine workers. PTT workers have been fired, they are resisting; hail PTT workers. There's been resistance for hundreds of days. TIVTÜVTÜRK workers -- loyal to NATO -- are resisting; salute TİVTÜRK workers. All hail the workers who resist the Jaffa Polchat. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) All hail the workers who have resisted at the Samsun Çorum Shipping Bay. Uzel workers, I salute you. Sinbo workers, you've been thrown out because you're a unionist. All hail the metal workers of the children of Breadshop at Çorum. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Everywhere is a resistance zone, everywhere is a battle zone. The Minister of Family, Work and Social Services is here today. I hope he's watching the resistance himself. When we look at it, all the workers in the resistance have either been fired because they're unionists, or they've either set up a tent because they can't get their severance pay, or they can't get their in-house fees, and of course they're in the resistance today as unemployed workers. Are you planning on doing anything for them as the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services? I'd like to ask you. Look, the workers of Ermenek have resisted, either the police or the regimental commanders. And of course, it's not you who's dealing with these workers, it's the Home Secretary. Is that so, Minister of Labor? Do we have a Labour Minister? So why is it that when the workers resist, they find the regimental commanders, they find the police, or I'm going to solve this problem, and I'm going to talk to the bosses? Why is it that Solomon is noble, the Home Secretary? Is something being done in this country with only hard politics? Do you have a vision for workers, workers? I'd like to ask you that. Look, this is the work killings November sign. Work killings, Labor Health and Occupational Safety Council are only compiling from newspapers: 294 workers lost their lives in work killings. This was about 50/50 in the months before the pandemic, in earlier months. So the workers are dying because of the pandemic, Mr. Secretary. Will you consider Covid-19 a professional illness for physicians, health workers and workers at work? [[Applause from HDP rows]] Look, the workers in Vestel died of Covid-19. Of the 294 workers mentioned here, 154 were killed by Covid-19. They wouldn't have died if they hadn't gone to work, but they're at work. Labour health and occupational safety are related to disease caught at work. I mean, is it possible that a physician doesn't approach a patient? Even if the mask obeys the rules of distance, when the physician approaches his patient, he must be in contact and therefore he dies. Here are the names of the workers who lost their lives, not the numbers. Mr. Secretary, please, let me show you -- we're waiting for a solution to the work killings. Look, one of us, Ali Kırýğımı, 51 years old, was killed while working at the construction site in Başakşehir, İstanbul. Mehmet Metin worked as a subcontractor in Düzce Standard Profile, lost his life; lost their lives while working, died while working. Mahmut Soylu, a forest worker in the army Fatsa, lost his life in the job murder. Mehmet Tuza, 23, young, died while working at Yalova. Look, come on, Polatkol, 44 years old, Hatay lost his life in Fourways. A physician, a family physician, was killed by one of the physicians who lost dozens of lives, Dr. Cengiz Çil, Covid-19. And there are a lot of health workers here because of Covid-19 who lost their lives. Bad management is responsible for these things, you can't manage them. You have burdened the people, you have burdened the people, and you have burdened the people, and you are responsible for them. I hope and wish that from now on, you'll be able to come up with a real solution so that other people don't lose their lives based on business killings and pandemics. Mr. Secretary, I don't know if you know, there's an imaginary job problem in Turkey. You keep doing projects every year to improve employment, and the incentives you give -- these are billions, tens of billions of dollars of incentives -- go to capital, but I'm asking you, have you been able to increase employment? If you ask TÜİKIK, unemployment has fallen. It's been announced again today - I think - unemployment has fallen according to September figures. I mean, when people lose hope and don't go looking for work, unemployment goes down, that's great! Then let's not look back, let's wait; maybe one day no man will go looking for work, then we won't have any unemployment, we'll have no unemployment, we'll have zero unemployment, and you'll be a very successful minister! Now, there was already a thread of cotton between income and employment. This string of cotton was already at the point of breaking down, especially as a result of the raging neoliberal policies, and its pandemic was completely severed. Now, when this bond between income and employment breaks, will people eat bark? Yeah, people get left to eat bark, people can't get jobs. Then what are they going to do? We need to think this through, and we need to find a solution, a solution. We have a solution to this problem, we can solve it. In order to solve this problem, we need to change the understanding of budget savings, and we need to abandon this idea of public service, which is in favor of capital, and we need to give a basic definition of income to everyone we can't find, who can't get a job, because -- we told you about it yesterday -- these taxes here are about 80 percent of the revenues that make up this budget, 73 percent of the people we call an indirect tax. So why are you going after the public's budget for capital? Why is this money going to public-special cooperation projects, five gangs? Instead, we should be able to provide basic income and offer the public their basic needs, such as electricity, water, natural gas, free of charge. Remember, these are the things that are necessary for the reconstruction of the labor force. Look, the last time I saw a deep poverty net, it says that a couple with Koah's disease, and two of them have koah disease, and they can't connect to the machine because their electricity is cut, they're getting electricity from their neighbors. Because their neighbors have pandemics, they can't get electricity from their neighbors this time, and they can't connect to the machine. You've made people depend on air, Mr. Secretary. They need air, they can't breathe because there's no electricity, they can't reach electricity, they're poor. So we have to make an effort to find a solution to these problems. The minimum wage is now being discussed. When we look at who's interviewing the minimum wage, there's hardly anyone at that table representing the workers. In fact, the president of Turkey said: "We are coming here for nothing, and I don't want to come because the capital and the government are sitting down, setting the minimum wage.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0026par0222	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0025par0223	Shouldn't the minimum wage be at least half the poverty limit when the poverty limit is 8.197, when the hunger limit is 2,516? I do. Ten million people work for minimum wage and below, millions of people are unemployed, 3.3 million people can't even get minimum wage. Do you have a solution? Do you have a solution? We have to work on this. We need a more democratic way to determine minimum wage. In terms of economic policy, you actually divided society: you divided it between the rich and the poor; you divided it into 4/A/A/A/B/L people; you divided it into 4/C/C/G people; you divided it into minimum wagers, refugee workers, underpaid people, day-to-day employees. If you call them house workers, they were starving for lack of access to any resources during the pandemic period. You divided them into female workers, male workers.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0026par0226	Hail, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0025par0227	Thank you, Mr. President. So, we need a ministry that will actually organize the working life in front of us in terms of this study table. As far as I'm concerned, the department of this bag can't do it, we certainly can't see that you're making the slightest effort in working life. Likewise, in matters of occupational illness, when job killings are increasing so much in workplaces, when occupational illness has increased so much, it's really murder for you not to make any effort, not to send investigators to their workplaces. I hope that these budget debates are at least more realistic for the next term, that the public will have access to the budget, that the public will serve the welfare of the community, and that we will live in another Turkey, because there really is another need for understanding in Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0027par0232	Mr. Diyet Dilan Taşdemir. Here you go, Mr. Stonedemir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0028par0235	Thank you, Mayor. Once again, I salute the general council and the people who are watching us at the head of their television. Dear friends, violence against women is not limited to a certain time, a certain culture, a certain geography, of course. All over the world, women are being discriminated against by discrimination and violence only from being women. The question is, in fact, what logic, what mentality, what tools, what policies, and how you struggle with violence against women. Look, as with other problems in the country, violence against women is unfortunately followed by denial of the AKP. This violence against women is also happening at times that he cannot deny, and often the arguments are: ▪ There is no violence against women in our civilization, in our faith. If someone is violent, they are troubled, sick men. They try to get out of the way. We've said it many times, once again: violence against women is political, and that's the way it must be fought, and one of the most important problems in this country today is a woman's issue. Look, guys, in the 2020 Global Gender Equality Index, we rank in the 130th place among 153 countries. Again, according to Dianetin's violence on women, at least 229 women were killed in ten months of 2020, 122 women were harassed, 226 children were abused. We also know this data as a result of the hard work and effort of women's organisations. I'm afraid the Women's Department has no accurate data on this matter. Even if we look at this painting, we can say that there's been a woman's crisis in this country. Dear friends, as much as these murdered women, there's a woman's reality that died suspiciously and was driven to suicide. Only five women died suspiciously within a month of my constituency in Ağar. We know that these women have a history of violence, their families have statements, but unfortunately, no active investigation has been conducted, and we've made motions about it, and unfortunately we haven't received any response. Again, dear friends, there is no proper mechanism to protect women from this violence. Look, Fatma Altınmakas was raped in the village of Malazgirt, and he goes to the police station, but the police station sends him back home instead of protecting Fatma. Fatma can't express herself well because she doesn't speak Turkish. If he had been a Kurdish translator and decided to protect Fatma, Fatma would be alive today, but unfortunately, denial and assimilation policies find and kill us women everywhere. There's no way to solve violence against women with that understanding and that mentality. Well, what should be done? Look, first of all, you're going to give up these policies that exist, you're going to make a principle of women's organizations' experience in fighting violence, you're going to give up male sovereignty. You are not going to write down the success of HDP and TJA Women who represent the highest women in the history of Turkey's politics on international platforms and come here to take hostage the women who fight and resist. (Personal applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) I once again salute hundreds of my female friends and companions from here, whom I can't name. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, you will cease to view the world's most democratic and participatory system as a crime, and you will adopt equal representation and co-chair in every aspect of politics as a principle, and you will even pass it on to your own regulations and programs. You will not appoint trustees, you will not seize independent women's associations, you will not attack women's gains, you will judge the rapists of Silk Er, you will answer the question of the whereabouts of Gulistan Doku, who has been missing for three hundred and forty days, and you will explain what happened to Nadira Kadirova. You will stop discussing the Istanbul Convention, you will fight for effective implementation, you will not covet the difficult right to child support, you will fight for collection. So in essence, you're going to apply the law, convince yourself that men and women are equal. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, from 2017 to 2018, the number of people living under the poverty line in Turkey increased by 1,24,000 people from 15 million 864 thousand to 16 million 888,000 people, according to TÜİK data. Women experience the deepest form of poverty. Dear friends, go to the front of the People's Bread buffet, and look at this. More than half of the people in the bread line are women. In this country, you also made poverty feminine and put it on women's shoulders. When we look at women's poverty rates, according to OECD data, in 2015, women's poverty rate in Iceland, Denmark, Finland is 5 per cent, while women who are up to 17 years old in Turkey are about 25 per cent, and 17% for the age of 17 to 65, according to the OECD data. You've really brought poverty into an identical state with women. Look, this is about pre-pandemic data, and with the pandemic process, we know it's getting heavier. Stay in the house. Many calls have been made, but not a word has been said about how the pot boils in that house, who will do the chores, and not a single suggestion has been made. Once again, the government has placed the responsibility of its own work on women's shoulders during the pandemic process. Again, some funds have been paid in the pandemic process. That's going to be said here, but once again, since women have already been working unsecured and unregistered, most of them have not been able to benefit from these grants. So in closed homes, women's labor was exploited more, men who were subjected to violence were released with the Execution Act, and women were forced to live in them. At this point, women had to share this house with these men and become more violent. Dear friends, the worst of these heavy problems is the refugee women. According to the Immigration Administration, 4 million people migrated from Syria to Turkey, and we know that half of them are women and children. According to studies conducted by women's organisations in the field again, Syrian refugee women are unfortunately suffering from intense sexual violence and discrimination. They are seen as a cheap labor force, their labor is being exploited; again, these women are being abused within their own families by their wives or relatives, while outside, criminal organizations abuse these women. Again, girls are forced to marry older men or children are forced to become second wives. According to the 2018 Turkish Population and Health Research, 38 per cent of Syrian refugee women -- this is very important -- are getting married as a child. Dear friends, women can't complain about their segregation because they're discriminated against by all the institutions they've gone to, because they're from the Syrian institutions, their problems aren't being listened to, their protective mechanisms are not being developed. Not only Syrian women, of course, but all refugee women have similar problems in Turkey. Look, I'm just going to give you an example: The last time an Iranian refugee was raped by the security guard who was held at the Responsibility Center in Van. Look, this is a very concrete example of what happens to refugee women even in official institutions, so think about the rest of you. Again, dear friends, of course, disabled women have serious problems. I don't have much time, Mayor. I just want to say a few words. So there are 4.5 million disabled women in Turkey. Both women and women with disability already have serious problems; they have serious problems in access to education, health access, and family.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0029par0252	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0028par0253	Thank you. Look, there's going to be a disability quota, but even this quota itself is usually reserved for unqualified jobs, so we know very well that the quota isn't applied for qualified jobs either. So in order for these problems to be visible for disabled women to have both women and people's budgets, a strong policy, a strong policy on all the areas of problems that I'm verbally expressing here, needs to be carried out so that these problems can be resolved, and this budget can be the budget of women and people. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0030par0257	The talks on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group are completed. Now I'm going to invite the speakers of the Republican People's Party Group. Mr. Süleyman Girgin, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0031par0261	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to say a few words to you. You're in charge of three vital issues that have increased importance during the Pandemic period, a ministry that has family, work and social services in the field of duty and authority. My question is: How do our workers, who have been removed from their jobs as part of the fight against pandemics, support their family with an unemployment allowance of $1,177; how do they afford their rent, electricity, water, gas bills, kitchen expenses? We've thought about it, we've thought about it, we haven't been able to get out of it, Mr. Secretary. In the end, the government must have known that if they didn't have a solution, we told them to close down their businesses. We said, "They haven't buried their heads in the sand long enough to turn their backs on the shopkeepers and workers." Mr. President, because of the outbreak, we're giving budgetary support to some countries. It seems that the money is not gone. Now, I want to ask you, what is this formula that you know and we don't, Mr. Secretary, so that these people can get along? If we are rich enough to provide budgetary support for other countries, why is this support being spared from our business, from our workers? And we know very well, Mr. Secretary, that you don't have the answer to that question either. We can imagine you asking yourself that question from time to time. It's been two years since I've been on duty. When I took office, public resources were already tied to someone's pockets with the Treasury guaranteed projects. It was two years before the Entity Fund was established when I took office. By the time I was in office, the government's vault had already been empty.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0032par0264	Where's the martyr money, the martyr money?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0031par0265	The economy is flying. We also know that you think that their stories are lies, that the inflation data of TÜİK is a hoax. Mr. Secretary, we also know that you have seen that the royal boat in Fivetepe is starting to take on water. We also know that you, like every institution in Turkey, expect direction from one man. Dear friends, a lot of ministers have come and gone in 18 years, but one person hasn't changed a bit. The one who has ruled the economy for 18 years now says: "The resurrection has begun in the economy. " Don't let God force anyone to give good news of the resurrection of the economy after eighteen years. Once again, don't let him bring up the bitter prescription after he's said it. Mr. Erdogan is the first party president to be responsible for the economic situation today. Every time our citizens go to market, every time they get a bill, every time they go to their house to buy fuel, every time they face the state of the economy, Mr. Erdogan has to face the fact that he can't come here and defend his budget. A citizen like the child of an irresponsible parent who now has to mature early; all burden is on his shoulder and power is no good. It'll be because of the liberation of the people that we'll be able to get back on the right foot. Dear lawmakers are negotiating next year on what money the worker cannot get by with. We're talking $2.324. So, what's the hunger limit in the country? In November, Turkey-İSK announced the hunger limit of a family of four at $2.517 and the poverty limit at $8.198. I mean, he's already living under the age of hunger, minimum wage. In the days of the pandemic, you even made the minimum wage a luxury. You told people to live on the cost of 39 TL. And you gave these people the IBAN act without shame. (CHEERING) What should be done? The minimum wage must be raised to a level of human dignity, excluded from the tax scope, and the minimum wage commission must be open to the participation of all trade unions. Mr. Secretary, if you think about how much increase should the Asgarari pay? Ask the Minister of Energy next to you, how much increase he's made in electricity and natural gas in the last year, and give you that much increase in minimum wage. I'll tell you this: in the last year, electricity has increased by 32.5% to 35 percent to the price of natural gas, my friends. So minimum wage -- I'm underlining -- should increase by at least 35 percent. Dear MPs, we've been talking for days about roads, bridges, airports and public-private co-operation in hospitals. You don't think it's in the energy? It's all a big deal compared to the energy pull, ear! From that, the public's share falls increasingly invoices, drying streams, farmland returning to the desert. The government says that when the tattoo goes up, the price of electricity goes up because of the cost of imported coal and natural gas. It's partly true, but that's not the real story. As it is known, private companies handle the country's electricity distribution. These companies provide about a third of the electricity they distribute from public-owned Electricity Productions, Inc. Therefore, the electricity that EUAS is selling to distribution companies increases, and the electricity that distribution companies sell to the public increases. But -- I want to make sure you pay attention -- in 2020, EUAŞ gives discounts on electricity sold to companies. So, do companies give discounts on bills? Is that possible? It's a raise, guys. Look, here's the painting: energy haul. According to this table, EUAS in October 2019 reduces electricity to private companies at 34 cents a year later to 15 cents more than half. What do these companies do? In 2019, he sells electricity for 34 cents to the public for 71 cents, while a year later, he sells electricity for 75 cents. That way, people, a couple of private companies get billions into their pockets through public companies. There's at least $9 billion in cash here. My question is, Mr. Energy Minister, how do you seize the rights of an undigested orphan when it's being impounded by the farmer's debt to the Agriculture Loan Cooperate, when he's being forced to close his businesses? (CHEERING) Don't you have a bad conscience? How do you sleep with your head on the pillow? Is it over? It's not over, guys. There's more cash, I'll take it. How? I'll tell you: plants that use renewable energy sources through CODEM are guaranteed to buy electricity through special price rates for ten years. But over the course of time, both the amount of incentives have grown to an extreme extent, and the incentives have become large-scale companies because of the arrangements, friends. Now, companies that don't need incentives for production, and what's more, have extraordinary relations with power, have also begun to receive their share of lion pie. As such, a group of companies, whose name is common in public-private cooperation projects, began to compete with each other to build hees, as in the country's farmlands in Muğla, to build hees in their streams. So, how does the SECNAP mechanism work and public resources get into a group of companies' vaults? And here's what we're used to seeing, guys, is a cash guarantee from the Treasury. Now, let's look at the numbers of the score, and let's look at the SECT score: from January 1, 2018 to September 30, 2020, I'm underlining -- over the market price payment -- the incentive is $49 billion, friends.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0033par0272	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0031par0273	I'm completing it, Mr. President. So, who's taking this cake? And we're looking at capital groups in the electricity distribution network in the ESUAS hit again. This country is not your father's farm, but the people will ask you to pursue public resources sooner or later. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Selçuk, Mr. Don't return; we're protecting the people with the Social Protection Shield during the pandemic period. You said, "You've distributed $41 billion in this program; it's from the unemployment fund, most of the workers' pockets." Now, you've given 9 billion dollars in EUAS, 49 billion in YEKM, and 58 billion in total to encourage a handful of companies. 41 billion for our people on one side, 58 billion for a handful of companies on the other. It's not a robbery, it's what, it's not a crime, it's what? So in your eyes, 83 million is not worth as much as a handful of companies.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0034par0279	Hail, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0031par0280	I salute. The words of Neyzen Tevfik are coming to the mind: the bread was enough for all; the crow was in the field, and the mouse was in the barn, and the baker, and the thief, and the land. We will first put an end to the power of the thieves, and then we will make the people's budget. We're almost there!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0035par0283	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0036par0284	Mr. Ahmet Akin, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0037par0286	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Dear friends, in this period when our energy addiction is not reduced, even growing, unfortunately, the policies of power can only pass beyond the logic of wishful thinking in good faith literature. Dear friends, world countries explain their goals, concentrate on solar and wind, explain their maps of fossil fuels and especially coal-based roads, implementing energy efficiency policies; Europe says that all sectors, including energy, are now building business patterns, products and production standards according to the Green Covenant, the low-carbon production and service sector. Where are we in this picture? It is now a necessity, a necessity, a necessity, to make our country, our industry, our institutional capacity in harmony with the Green Covenant. Dear friends, you say you support renewable energy at every turn; we wonder why you shut down the Renewable Energy Director's Office on July 10, 2018. So the first thing the regime did was shut down the Renewable Energy Directorship, which we're very curious about. Turkey's potential is always compared to Germany at every opportunity. Even though our potential is so much higher than Germany, and we've also begun solar investments, why are we so far behind? For example, energy co-operators, why did you put obstacles in the way of people's efforts to build energy co-ops to make their electricity clean and cheap? Why did you change the regulations? Why did you stop him? And we call back from here: we have to open up and encourage energy co-ops in order for the public to have a say in energy. The truth is that in our country, neither in edible energy nor in energy efficiency, these are the priorities of your policies. We clearly have close to 30 percent of the potential for energy efficiency. But what you've come up with is still the 2007 Energy Efficiency Act, which you've never been able to get past. Your preference is not for energy efficiency, publicist, cheap electricity; you prefer to build more rants, more power plants, even more nuclear plants. We can clearly see that you are acting without long-term planning, both by your energy policies and by your actions. Unfortunately, paying the bill for your idleness, your lack of accountability falls not to you, but to our citizen struggling through the economic crisis. Dear friends, why is your parallel, unsupervised family company in the power plant business that you call the Presence Fund when you have an ESUC? We know that the Turkish Entity Fund attempted to build a coal plant in Afşin-Elbistan, but it is registered to Afşin-Elbia. WHY is this work being done through the Turkish Entity Fund when there is an EUAS? Who will be given this job, and how will it be done? You want to miss out on the audit through the fund? Your unplanned, unscheduled policies, unfortunately, hit the citizens, thanks to you, citizens, not electricity, but the bills they're being billed with raises. Why does a citizen have to pay for your unplanned policies? The electricity supply has remained the same since 2018, but rather than planning investments in production, which has been licensed by the EPDK during this time, the government continues, maintains uncontrollably, and is also shaped to increase external dependency. So wherever you look at it, it's warped, unplanned, but it's still 83 million of our citizens who are paying the price. You've broken the ecological balance of nature with the mini HES (e.g., which you've built over our rivers without looking at the ecosystem, without planning the river, without planning the basin. We're not opposed to HES investments, but it's due to the record of environmental and environmental impact efforts and supporting our country's sustainable development without creating a public victim. I'd like to say a few words about my meal. SEPTEMBER is far, far away from the philosophy it was founded in 2010, where it came from today. Resolving Turkey's energy dependence on energy was implemented to support the use of clean, environmentalist, renewable sources instead of fossil fuels in energy production in the country. He's had ten years of experience, prices are in the currency index and the exchange rate is constantly rising, and prices are automatically riding. For ten years, edible energy technologies have been extremely cheap, but we've kept the prices the same. Who pays the bill? 83 million of our citizens are paying the bill -- our industrialist, our tradesman, our people. In Turkey -- I think you're people who know that you hydropower plants have no innovative structure -- why did you take HES investment into ACTM mechanism, which is built -- all of it -- more than 70 per cent? These need to be removed from SEPTEMBER. That way, the price will be cheap. THE truth and what needs to happen is that technology is supported by intensive investments. Our industrialist complains, can't pay his bills. What we need to do is focus on green economy, renewable energy, energy efficiency and resource efficiency. What we need to do is we all sign our country's green agreement; stop fossil fuels, greenhouse gas growth. We say, "Stop." It's to leave a living Republic of Turkey for future generations. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, one of the most important pencils of our citizens is energy. As the burden of the citizen increases, support, exemptions, extensions of time, unfair arrangements always belong to the AK PARTI governments; it's a nepotism. Aren't you the one who said that when electricity privatisations create 21 distribution zones, when privatisations are being made, the missing fugitive rates will be reduced by investments? Didn't you even say the electricity would be cheaper? I thought it was going to be cheap. Why did you cheat people? The Minister of Finance of the period said that on October 1, 2013, when electricity becomes special, it will be cheap, and the citizen will receive cheap electricity. Those words of the EC PARTY were not true either. After that, investment expenses will be paid by the private sector. They will also pay foreign currency and pay taxes. What happened? The law passed by parliament extended the electric cost used illegally to consumers for another 5+5 years. The EC PARTY governments couldn't close regional differences in the distribution of electricity, but they couldn't manage distribution privatisation, and you ultimately loaded the missing fugitive on the back of this nation. Now, I'd like to ask the EPDK: What's the EPDK for, folks? For a citizen or for energy companies who consider a citizen a client? For who, for example, is the decision made on December 3rd? I'm talking about the regulation of EPDK's electricity distribution schedule and the regulation of retail sales schedules to reflect all the costs available to you by 21 power distribution companies. The EPDK made a statement on our criticism last night; its apology is greater than its guilt. It says EPDK: It's like that in the past, it's by law. For God's sake, friends, where do you live? This is the Republic of Turkey and our citizen fighting the economic crisis. For God's sake, millions of our citizens can't pay the electric bill, they're fighting viruses. What if you made a decision that wouldn't reflect these expenses and gave the citizen a breath of relief? Why do you always look out for these companies? You know what this looks like? It's like Uncle Hakkı offering tea to Mehmet the baker he sold his bread to, making Uncle Hasan, the pensioner in the neighborhood pay for the tea. (HPP cheers) Such a thing is out of the question anywhere in Turkey. The EPDK should be in favour of the citizen, not the company, but the public, as in its core.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0038par0301	We're complete, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0037par0302	What about natural gas? In 2017, the average family paid 140 liras for a 125 cubic metres of natural gas, now 250 liras. They gave the citizen's bill an 80% increase in three years. It's the same thing with electricity, 70 percent. The question is, which officer, which salary, which pensioner, employee's salary has increased by 80 percent, and with what face did you give the raises? In addition to the depression, you're constantly giving rises despite the struggle with the pandemic and unemployment of the citizens. Dear friends, what you need to do at this time is be with a citizen because access to electricity and natural gas is a minimum right to human rights in these conditions. We discovered natural gas in the Black Sea. You said, "The citizen will receive cheap natural gas." But did the citizen really get the good news, or was it a supporter? In order to do so, you created a system of purchase guarantees for the gas found in the Black Sea. Dear friends, I'm calling from here. Black Sea gas is promised not to a citizen, but to a supporter of the AKP.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0039par0307	Bow.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0037par0308	Soon his scent will come out, which, unfortunately, is not good news for 83 million, but good news for one side; and soon everyone will see it. As a result, the AKP will make this gas business look like a tunnel, a highway, and loan us our future again, and unfairly. There are many questions about natural gas found in the Black Sea; how will it be found, what will it be, what will it be, how will it be financed, how will it cost, what, why? And, my dear friends, yesterday we held a meeting, and we listed six-point solution proposals to be with our people in the pandemic. Now, the Minister is here, our MPs are here, for God's sake, how will those who are not with the citizen at this time then answer to the citizen? What harm can it do for you to accept it? It says here: let the debt of our citizens who cannot pay electricity and natural gas bills during an epidemic be delayed by a year without interest, divided into 12 equal taxis, supported by additional pandemic processes for those who benefit from Electric Consumption Support. Also, to the President... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Sir, may I? I'll get right on it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0040par0313	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0037par0314	...and add Covid-19 pandemic to the arrangement authorizing a year's loan postponement. Isn't Covid-19 a disaster, fellas? Not seeing this as a disaster means not having to feel the pain of these people. Also, let the farmer's debt of water and electricity be delayed for at least two years, make it easy to pay. In the electricity that the industrialist, the tradesman, and all our people are fed up with, let's get the OTV, the fund, the TRT share removed, and the VAT reduced to one percent. Let our legal proposals on the commissions be legalized here. Remove the WTV at natural gas and reduce VAT to 1 percent. We have legal proposals on these issues and they're on hold. Why is he kept waiting, on what grounds? My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0041par0322	Mr. Ednan Arslan...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0042par0324	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all with love and respect. On behalf of our party, I have made a commitment to convey our views on the EPDK budget. We're talking about a public corporate personality built to create, regulate, regulate, and control a financially strong, stable and transparent energy market to create conditions for consumers to meet the need for adequate, quality, continuous, low-cost energy. Sadly, we are witnessing that the EPDK (EPDK) has quickly moved away from these basic goals and tasks, losing its independence. We regret to say that the EPDK is part of the practice that protects the rights of distribution and supply companies while treating 83 million of our citizens as customers. How do we know all this? We know from the Court reports. See, the Court report says, Mr. Secretary, that the amount of electricity published on the website of 21 power distribution companies is different from the amount of electricity released on the website of 15 other power distribution companies, which is different from the amount reported to the company, since the delivery companies did not meet their obligations on the basis of their delivery lines. Precious lawmakers, in the Ministry of Energy's budget presentation of 2021, Turkey has been shown as the cheapest-used country among EU countries, and I am curious to know how it has been reached, because the fact is that Turkey is the third most expensive-used country among the G20 countries, the country that has increased energy prices among the OECD countries. Look, I've got a report here: when the OECD countries gave a 7.3 percent reduction in electricity during the Pandemic period, unfortunately, our country has increased 11.5%, but we're talking about electricity being cheaper, we're saying we're cheapening electricity. The electricity increase in your era is 369 percent, friends, 369 percent. Neither minimum wage nor any fee has increased by 369 per cent, while electricity bills have increased by 369 per cent in your transfer. Look, let's say that a family of 4 people consumes 230 kilowatts per month, including taxes, funds and all costs, their bills went up to 57.3 lira in 2009, 95 lira in 2017, 172.75 in 2020. So even between 2017 and 2020, there was an 82.3% increase, but you claim we're still using the cheapest electricity. IN 2019, EUAS gave a raise in total electricity prices. As soon as the EPDK came out, electricity prices were raised because of the increase in wholesale sales by EUAS on the increase, he said and defended companies. But the electricity, which was 34 cents in October 2019, was reduced to 12 cents in 2020, although electricity production reduced the wholesale sales prices of the Ash, unfortunately, supply companies did not reduce electricity bills. Given that these supply companies are getting about 60 billion kilowatts of energy, that's how 9.06 billion dollars went into the supply companies' pockets, but this, unfortunately, is not reflected in the public bills.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0043par0330	They added their trip to Barcelona, their trip to Barcelona.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0042par0331	Gene, according to the 2018 Control Report, distribution companies receive advertising and rent revenue from TEDAS buildings outside the scope of privatisation. In 2014-2017, that amount is $103 million, plus the last three years, that amount is about 200 million. TEDAS is writing an article to the EPDK, saying: "Let half of this money be given to us as a property owner; let us reduce 25 per cent from the bills, and 25 per cent from these companies. What does the EPDK do? He leaves all of these revenues to supply companies in a statement published in the Official Gazette on 19/12/2015. I'd like to ask you, who are you paying for?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0044par0333	Bravo.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0042par0334	Who are you paying for? You have to answer for this indecency.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0045par0336	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0042par0337	While privatisations are being created, 21 distribution zones are being created, one of your biggest arguments is that the missing fugitive will be prevented, but instead of dealing with the missing fugitive, the EPDK is doing something, instead of encouraging suppliers to make these investments; it's playing with bills. Why? Because until 2015, the citizen knew how much he had paid for the service in the bill, and the citizens began to collect those costs, which were wrongfully paid by the Supreme Court. You guys went right into a bag of bills and protected the corporations. Once you've collected all the pencils at the price of energy and distribution at 2 pens, that won't be enough, you've removed all the controls from the bill in 2019 and removed the control mechanism of the citizen's bills. What is it, Mr. Secretary, that this isn't about protecting the corporations and not the citizens?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0045par0340	Let's salute, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0042par0341	Let me salute you. Another important issue is the closing costs. These are 37.3 for dwellings in 2020; 171.6 for factories and businesses. Yeah, people can't pay the electric bill anyway, they're already in trouble. If he paid the electric bill, there wouldn't be a price to pay. He can't pay, he can't pay his bill for a penny, he can't pay his bill for a dime, you cut it, and you charge the citizen for it. We asked you a question, Mr. Secretary, and you didn't answer. We got an answer on this without getting any information. In 2016, 2017, 2018, nearly 17.8 million subscribers lost power and thus got 500 million lira into the distribution companies' pockets. Yeah, get your hands out of these people's pockets. This nation is already short of living, it's already got a thousand kinds of problems, so let's not victimize it like that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The last time you published something again, you're extending another five years to reflect 7 percent of the uncontrollable costs of these companies into bills. So these companies are going to go, they're going to travel, they're going to stay, they're going to eat, they're going to drink, and you're still going to put 7 percent of these uncontrollable revenues on this nation's back. That's enough, that's enough.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0046par0346	Thank you, Mr. lion. Mr. Tacettin Ridge. Here you go, Mr. Ridge.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0047par0350	Dear President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you first. Since my time is limited, I'd like to make brief assessments of the institutions of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. To briefly evaluate the National Institute of Bor Research, Bor has emerged as a mine that we cannot benefit from in the corona process. During the Corona process, the party president's order to sell boron disinfectant ads would not have worked, which is still being sold at high fixed costs to run disinfectant in the market. If our municipalities didn't distribute for free, they wouldn't have access to houses from disinfectant; fortunately, there are Republican People's Party municipalities. This power, which cannot disband the mask, who cannot govern the curfew, who cannot afford the burden of the tradesman, has unfortunately not been able to deliver the boron disinfectant to the houses, for free. Mr. President of the Party, Mr. Minister Fatih Günzünmez, on March 24, 2020, this disinfectant you're talking about, really, since you've seen it, let's go to a very serious ad campaign and close the gap with this disinfectant. Send us one of these, so that he doesn't ruin our hands. He used his expressions. We read about it in the press, in the media. Minister, I'm asking you now, has the Ministry run any advertising campaigns for boron disinfectant? How much export has he done as a result? After that, did they sell disinfectant and detergent to countries? How much longer will the budgetary institutions of about 23 million TL be unfunctioned? I want these questions answered. The Court's findings of the General Directorate of Mines and Oil are also significant. Why did this institution, which was earmarked at the beginning of 2019 to spend 12.3 million in other pencils compared to the New Year's allowance, do so at the end of the year, to spend 2.5 times as much as the Christmas allowance -- or 28 million euros -- at the end of the year? Why hasn't the MAPEG, who acquired 28 million euros in goods and services in 2019, asked for an allocation and a handover since its legal status was changed and became an institution? Why haven't they registered their residences? Why didn't MAPEG do it when it was legally required to set up internal control and control systems? Why was the internal control system not only a data filing job, but the basis of the management support system, and why was this system not activated, despite the Court's warning that it allowed the institution to determine the risks it faces? After the Court's warning that old problems would continue if this system was not set up electronically? Or are you as familiar with me as someone else? I don't know the Court, I read what I know. Are you understanding? If someone starts the Constitutional Court, someone says, "I don't know the number." Where does it end up in this country? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear President, members of parliament, the EPDK has officially entered the court's blacklist. The EPDK, which did not pursue its own punishment, received new powers in the field of energy with the new Electric Market Law. The new bag, which the missing fugitive target does not hold in electricity, has, unfortunately, confessed to the pain, adding 5 to 5 to 5 years more to the bills. And if that's not enough, only 5.7 percent of electricity was raised on October 1st. In 2015, the ball was thrown into 2020, and these costs will not be taken, you said. By 2020, you point to 2025 years, and you say that even now, by authorising the party president, we extend this authority until 2030. I ask: When will this nation stop paying for electricity that they don't use? Finally, this budget is not the public budget; it is a budget that brings hunger, unhappiness, not prosperity. In that sense, I offer you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0048par0360	Mr. Ahmet Önal, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0049par0362	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party group regarding the budget for 2021 of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. First of all, I salute all our citizens. The Mining Study Department was founded in 1935 to systematically investigate and operate our mines, and according to the agency's law, our country was tasked to search, find, and identify the resources of mines and quarryes. In addition, the MTA has studied all over our country, contributing to the discovery of several new mineral deposits during these studies. With all this work, the MTA has contributed a great deal to the Turkish economy. Despite the self - sacrificing efforts of the MTA (MTA), our country's energy dependence on the outside has not been eliminated. When the energy ministry reviews budget figures for 2021, we also see that there is no serious work done to reduce our country's energy dependence on energy. Wrong policies in energy have been reflected in our citizens as bills and unfair taxes. Look, the average monthly electricity bill for a family of four today is 250 euros, and the gas bill is 500 TL. It's not possible for people who live on minimum wage or only receive pensions to pay these bills. The real problem of our country is unemployment, poverty, and the shortage of livelihood. This budget law, which you have brought from our nation while waiting for us to work on the solution to these problems, has no arrangement for the life of our citizens. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to show you a few photographs taken in my constituency, in order to show you the situation of our tradesman. Look, this is a picture taken at Osman Tiryaki Street, one of the busiest streets of our Bırıkkale. Many shops have been evacuated on Osman Tiryaki Street, where it was impossible to find a rental shop, and there are jobs in which they have been ordered to evacuate because they cannot pay the rent. Another photograph: This is a place where we refer to it as the Burıkkale, where there are hundreds of shops from food to cleaning products, restaurants to dressmakers, tea stoves, and the most economical neighborhoods of our city. Because of electricity, water, heating, taxes, SGK and BUGCUR, the owners of this place are unable to breathe. Look, our shop owner who can't make these payments wrote ▪ for rent or for sale on the window of his shop. Dear friends, these business owners, and in the pandemic period, they didn't get any help from the government, each of them with family, children. You didn't help these people at all. Look, guys, these people who closed the business, get us a job, at least get me a minimum wage job. I can't look my kids in the eye at night, they say. So, this is the crescendo you've created. (CHP rows) The Gizkale painting, where unemployment grows every day, young people who can't find a job quickly leave the city, where ten years, 20 years of tradesmen close their shops and look for a minimum wage. I don't care how proud you are of yourself, I don't think you are. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Dear friends, another victim, our canteen shop and school services are the two sectors that are at the top of the most affected sectors of the pandemic era. Under Coronavirus measures, schools in Turkey have been closed since 13 March. Since then, no one has asked, "What do you eat, what do you drink, and what do you eat? " Our barbers, our restaurants, cafe businesses, tea stoves, van shop, they're practically crying blood. These people are struggling for a living, whose income is down by 80 percent, but whose costs are up by two or three times. Galoshes, gloves, aprons are mandatory. They can't get more than two people in the hall. Because it's getting cold, electricity and heating costs are up twice as high. In the old days, after expenses went out, these people who have 4,000 or 5,000 liras left in their monthly pockets are no longer able to make a living. While these people are waiting for a solution from us, the AK PARTY's power doesn't see or hear the Giskale tradesman. The vegetables, the fruit, the food, the cleaning materials are burning hands. Now, the houses are full of stones, not stoves. Dear friends, look, another important issue is our pensioners. Retired pensions, which didn't even find the limit of hunger, condemned our pensions to starvation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing up.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0050par0373	Please come in.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0049par0374	Retired poverty deepens every day. Retired pensioners, whose poverty deepens, are literally struggling for their lives. In pandemic conditions, basic consumption was increased by 40-50 per cent, which melted their pensions. The most affected were our pensioners, who had the number of 52,000 in Kırıkkale. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I've been in this holy House for three years, and the third budget is being budgeted. I've seen that the tradesman, pensioner, minimum wager, farmer, in short, our hard-earned citizens are not in the budget. Of course, it's a matter of political choice. Because you're doing the budget for those who support you, not the poor of our country. We, too, tell you that your political preference is wrong, especially in my constituency area, Fracturedkale. Hopefully, this will be the last budget you'll ever be in power because we'll be in power in the first election. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing up.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0051par0379	Let's bow.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0049par0380	We will make the budget of 2022 with our workers, our peasants, our poor people. He says we will share the income with the truth and pass the wealth of our country to our citizens, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0051par0382	Mr. Ali Mahir Aşar... Here you go, Mr. Successor.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0052par0385	I salute the General Assembly. I made a promise about the energy ministry budget. I have three questions for the Minister. Mr. Secretary, a nuclear power plant is under construction in my hometown of Mersin. Yes, with the deal you've made, 100 per cent of this plant is Russian companies, but there's another interesting thing about the agreement: Turkey will never have 51 per cent of this company, always 49 per cent. Second, you made a guarantee, you said: "We'll get half of the electricity produced for fifteen years." Good. How much do we get for it? Kilovatsaati 12.35 cents. So, in Europe, how many hours in the world? Four cents and six cents. Mr. Secretary, I wonder why you made such a compromise. There are now a million people out of power last year. I'm curious as to why Russian companies' capital is being illuminated when the public's house is being blacked out. (HPP) Mr. Secretary, this plant that's being built on my land, it's my severance responsibility, it's my risk, I'm the risk, I'm getting an expensive -- 3 times the power -- why is Russia getting this concession? Who is this Russian Minister, who is this Russia? Two: I asked you a written question in February 2020, and I said that Europe gets a thousand cubic metres of natural gas from Russia for $120; we get $280, and why is that? It's a very clear question. You answered me, Mr. Secretary. I'm curious. You wrote it on a page. I can't answer, you said commercial secret, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary, I didn't ask about your family company, I didn't ask about your personal company, I didn't ask about your personal affairs. Why, according to the world, do we pay two and a half times more natural gas than Russia? What kind of government is that? What kind of government is that? You answer here, but I'll give it to you in advance. You know what you're doing? Europe's energy minister is leaving, taking this gas directly from Russia. You get companies to buy natural gas, and then you come and sell it to your Ministry of Energy. Who are these companies, and I'm curious? Is that an understanding, Mr. Secretary? Yes, 4 million people lost their natural gas last year in Turkey. People can't get warm, but we don't hold back from making concessions to Russia in both electricity and natural gas, do we, Minister? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, in this pandemic process, a million people lost power last year. I'd expect you to say, "We don't get 50 percent of electricity out of this power, we don't get 50 percent of it for six months." What have you got? You'll be billing the delivery companies' hospitality costs. Yeah, well, I can't afford people's hospitality, and they can't feed their children, and you're going to bill those gentlemen's hotel costs, their food costs, their plane fares, their travel expenses. Mr. Secretary, isn't it a shame? It's a shame, isn't it? Look, I'm asking you three questions: 1) Why did you give a land in my hometown to Russia and make such compromises? 2) Why, according to the world, do we receive natural gas at 2.5 times more than Russia? 3) Why are you billing electricity companies for representation, hospitality, entertainment, and why?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0053par0396	The ambassador's compensation, the ambassador's!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0052par0397	Please, come and answer this here. (CHEERING) That's what the public wants. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0054par0400	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0052par0401	I salute. Now, this can't be a national stance, a national energy policy. People can't bring bread home. Today, the billion...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0055par0403	Look at yourself first!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0052par0404	I'll take care of myself, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0055par0405	Of course you will.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0052par0406	I'll give you the answer to everything, don't worry.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0055par0407	You'll take care of yourself.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0052par0408	My forehead is clear, sir, so relax. Look, I have a clear forehead, sir, so don't insult me. Look, I'll give you a quick answer to what you just said.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0055par0409	All of Turkey knows who you are.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0052par0410	I'm a man in this country who served with honor, honor, and discharge.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0055par0411	Don't talk so much!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0052par0412	You take care of your friends, sir. He's a paid soldier and a paid man from this state.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0055par0414	You're lying! You're lying!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0052par0415	Sir, there's a postal smell on my military discharge...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0055par0416	You're a liar!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0052par0417	Your friends smell like dollars, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0055par0419	You're a liar, a liar!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0052par0420	Know your place, sir!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0056par0422	Thank you, understood, Your...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0052par0423	Mr. President, one more minute, I'll finish.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0056par0424	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0052par0425	I'll finish it, just one more minute...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0056par0426	Please, thank you very much.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0052par0427	One sentence...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0056par0428	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0052par0429	I'll tell you my final words: if there's a war on this land, God forbid, I'll take off this badge, wear that uniform with honor, sir, I'll wear it with honor, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0057par0430	Then why did you insult me?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0058par0431	Aren't you...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0059par0432	You're a soldier's enemy, soldier! You're an enemy of the Turkish Armed Forces! Everyone knows you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0060par0433	What an enemy, for God's sake!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0061par0434	You can't lynch me in one sentence by cutting off the beginning of my line, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0059par0435	You are the enemy of the Turkish Armed Forces!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0062par0436	You insult our Turkish Armed Forces.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0061par0437	In that speech, sir, I said I wouldn't give the post of Mehmetçik.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0062par0438	Why are you insulting the Turkish Armed Forces?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0063par0439	You talk too much, you talk too much.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0061par0440	Please! Mehmet, the soldier is the crown of my head. The army is the crown of my head. It's the bastard who insults the army, it's the bastard! But he's a bigger bastard who calls himself a martyr! Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0064par0443	Would you mind turning on my mic? I'll tell you something else, it's not about the speech.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0065par0444	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0064par0447	Mr. President, now that we've started this tour with the first HDP, we're going with CHP. Of course, it's okay for our friends to give speeches, but for example today -- usually 6 speakers -- the CHP is at work -- usually 10, 12, 14, the HDP reports seven speakers today. Now, each conversation here is one minute, plus one minute, and then another minute, Mr. President... our friends have prepared for 70 minutes. Now, we need to look at a case of rights here. At this point...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0066par0448	You guys talk, too.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0067par0449	Wait, guys, wait!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0064par0450	No, sir, you should talk, not you. We've arranged our talks for five minutes, ten minutes, and we're planning to finish them first, but now, when you come here with seven or eight minutes of preparation for a five-minute conversation, your tour is 100 minutes, our tour is 70 minutes. That's not fair; I'm not just saying that for CHP. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I don't mean in general...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0068par0454	Complete.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0064par0455	Mr. President, we'd appreciate it if you'd take care of this.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0068par0456	I find the warning of Mr. Nightingale to be justified on my own behalf, and I ask the friends to comply, please. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0069par0458	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0068par0459	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0069par0461	Mr. President, we thank you for your understanding. Of course, budget talks are critical. There's a problem with crowd groups. The biggest problem is that the ruling party is disbanding the speech... and the understanding you're showing here is precious to us, but Mr. Nightingale's complaint is justified. Let's do this: The more talks there are from groups in total, the more it adds to the number of speakers, the more we rely on your justice, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0070par0464	Mr. President, we don't have long conversations, so what do we do if we don't have a long speech?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0071par0465	Thank you very much. Mr. Rich...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0072par0468	Mr. President, I wish you a good meeting. Mr. President, I'm going to state that the procedure is that, in fact, before I come here -- I care about the rules -- I was told that when I asked our group again, each group would speak, and then we, the Deputy Directors of the Group, would object to it -- a promise that I don't like, but it's technically called -- we were told that we would respond to taunts. After the HDP Group, I had my notes, and I wanted to answer them, but when you promised our CHP friends, I didn't want to interrupt, I came to you, and I kept our demands on this matter, and I want to express them, because there's a lot of time coming in. Now don't pick on me... and we have a compromise here, of course, about time, about procedure. Now, normally, we, our Group Vice President friends, are responding to everything we're uncomfortable, so let's either log in or not, we'd like to express it anyway. Now, in that sense, we are patiently listening in a compromise. So, if your right on the stand is to end the promise of a length of time, it could happen again, an objection to him...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0073par0472	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0072par0473	One sentence... When the word's done, yes, to some understanding, a minute's understanding, but to answer that, to raise the aggression here... now I'm going to wait an hour and a half while I'm being told so much about our own MPs? Then there's a strange painting. So I remind both my friends and you, please, that we've been talking about budgets on this stand, and we've been discussing a compromise, and I'd like to invite you to be sensitive about it. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit02spe0074par0477	I thank you. If you'll excuse us, we'll take a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0074par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Nuclear Organising Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account MIDDLE DETECTIVE AND EARCH GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2019 Central Management Predictable Account ÜRKEY ATOM INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Occupational Qualification Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Occupational Qualification Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account EVLET PERSONEL PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 The commission is in place The third round was held in talks on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Osmaniye MP Baha Celebrity is next in line. Here you go, Mr. Celebrity. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0075par0047	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the Energy Ministry budget. I salute your High Council with love. Guys, before we start talking, I'd like to talk to you about something. On December 3rd, one of our police officers was killed in Kahramanmarash; my hometown from Daziçi district of Osmaniye was martyred. Today is the seventh day of his martyrdom. On the seventh day, I ask God's mercy again, and again for his grieving family, and for their loved ones, and for their patience, and for their patience. Friends, in the last decade, the electricity schedule for the dwellings has increased by 179 per cent and by 379 per cent in the industry. Electric tariffs consist of two main components. One is the retail schedule reflected in the cost of electricity production; the other is the distribution schedule, where distribution and delivery networks reflect business, maintenance and repair investments, including missing fugitives. When we look at the numbers, the retail section for the dwellings increased by 152 per cent, while the distribution schedule increased by 251%. A 150 per cent increase in production costs can be described as the impact of dollar incentives to renewable resources, but a 251 per cent increase in distribution schedule needs explanations. Today, all distribution zones are run by the private sector. In 2008-2010, when privatisation began, the distribution schedule was 5-6 cents per kilowatts, while 21 cents today cannot be explained by inflation or increased business maintenance costs due to increased foreign currency. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In terms of privatisation tenders, the prices that companies pay for privatisation are not a tariff. This increase in distribution schedules is because distribution companies offer unaccounted for, they can't pay the privatisation costs in dollars. According to international admission standards, if the price paid for energy exceeds 10 per cent of disposable income, there is energy poverty for that person. Although Turkey consumes only 200 kilowatts per month, only electricity costs exceed 10 per cent of the expendable income in sub-income groups. When included in this, low-income, medium-income energy-poor people are considered to be the majority of society. Therefore, to protect those who lose their jobs or income due to their pandemics, electricity and gas debts must be constructed or paid by the state. Another important thing I want to talk about is electricity production. A large portion of the public-owned production plants have been privatized. As they were privatised, they were not guaranteed any purchases, and they bought plants to sell their production in competition conditions in the electric market. But today, these plants are paid the cost of capacities so that they don't get hurt, survive, pay the price of privatisation they offer without an account. In fact, lignite plants are guaranteed to buy and some of their production is taken by the state. My fellow lawmakers, if this is how it's going to be, why is it privatized? (Applause from CHP rows) In particular, the time was up early 2020 to invest in lower emissions and minimise environmental impacts of lignite plants. Some of them were shut down because they didn't make these investments, but today most of these plants work on temporary business licenses.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0076par0058	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0075par0059	The other thing I'd like to mention is that it's about renewable energy support. These support mechanisms are principled for reducing both external dependency and reducing carbon emissions. In the years that the support app began, the wind and solar plants had a huge investment price of 7.3 cents per cent/kilovatsate for the wind and 13 cents/kilovatsate for the sun, which was reasonable, but because of advances in technology, investment costs have dropped rapidly. Moreover, due to the overvaluement of the dollar, the price paid to renewable plants increased dramatically and became a burden to consumers. In fact, the new legal arrangement should have given up the price of support, but the pressure of financial and business environments has been reached by the decision that this practice will continue, but that the price of support will be determined by the President in terms of TL from mid-2021. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, can I have another minute?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0076par0062	Hail, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0075par0063	This error must be abandoned, followed by the application of the tender method, similar to the world, and the application of a production license for the one who gives the cheapest price. In addition, Turkey's energy sector should implement policies that will help fight climate change in parallel with the world's developments. This requires more renewable energy production and investments to ensure efficient use of energy. I wish our country the best of the 2021 budget and pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0077par0067	Mr. Erkan Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0078par0070	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of 2021 of the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services. I salute your high council. First of all, I give my deepest respect to the hard-working health workers, to the workers, to our pensioners, to the unemployed, and to all my fellow citizens who are trying to survive with $39 a day, to avoid the outbreak of Covid-19. [[Applause from CHP rows]] This is about minimum wage. The Minister is here, the family, the Minister of Labor. Talks have begun -- union representatives, government representatives -- and will continue for about a month. First of all, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary how many people have worked for minimum wage in Turkey since 2014, and you're not explaining it. It has been on the website of the SGK for nearly six years, and we do not know how many people have been paid minimum wage in Turkey. At that time, he said over 40 percent, and today, nearly 10 million of our citizens, according to the number of unions, have to live on minimum wage. So you're predicting an increase of about 12.1 per cent, according to the inflation rate given by TÜİK. The minimum salary of $2.324 is going to be between about 2,500 and 2,600, and at the very last point, Mr. President will say to my minimum-paying employee, that's very little, and I'll add another $100 to that, let's say $2.600. Well, how do we know that? Because the same theater was played last year. Mr. President came out last, figured it out like a hero. Now, let's look at the same president's salary for 2021: from 81 thousand liras to 88,000 liras; the difference is 7,000 liras. Only the 7,000 lira difference is three months minimum wage. What about the palace's budget? $4 billion 39 million, 4 quadrillion 39 trillion with old money. Friends, do you know how much the court has, not a day's, not an hour's, a minute's budget? $7,700, Mr. Secretary, $7,700, a minute's expenses. Do you know what four minutes of expenses are worth? It's worth a year's wages for a minimum wage. You know, the President who said, "I came back with a ring years ago." Today, for five minutes while I'm having this conversation, he gets a minimum waged five minutes in a year, is that a move? His salary is exactly 30 times the minimum wage. Now, Mr. President, over and over again, our dear citizens who voted for the EC PARTI, our dear brothers and sisters, I would like to say that in those years, a president that you feel like yourself, with a ring, who you think came out of poverty, instead of your dreams, is spending 13 planes today, and four minutes of your palace's expenses, draining the budget for one year's sweat. Question this, please, because we also know that the majority holds the AK PARTY in power with your votes. And you have indeed voted with faith, and you have done good, but what we have come to this day is a waste and a great waste. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My friends, our proposal is clear: minimum wage is at least $3,100 -- but its ideal is 3,800 lira. Is that enough? Of course it's not enough. But if you leave the cheese, the milk, the meat, the pride of your father who can't bring home the bread, the sadness of your mother, who can't find food to boil in the stove, the sadness of your mother, who has spent years of studying and collecting papers, but who can't find work, and who wants to contribute to the budget of the house, because there's no Internet in the house, and the future of the child who decides our future is actually going to be a minimum of $3,800.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0079par0081	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0078par0082	I'm completing it. Otherwise, you guys are going to come out in a minute, you're going to give good numbers here, you're going to tell me how great your power is, but you're never going to cover the disappointments of your father, your mother, your youth, and the child. This budget is a waste budget, this budget is a budget of collapse, and above all, it's AKP's farewell budget; we'll say goodbye. We'll say goodbye. We'll tell AKP. (HPP) And the Republican People's Party will be one of the first budgets in power, it says, future budgets, and I give you all a lot of respect.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0079par0085	Dear Metin Ilhan. Here you are, Mr. Ilhan.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0080par0088	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. The public budget must be designed specifically to increase production and employment, to spread vital prosperity for our narrow-income citizens, to increase growth, and to adapt to today's competitive world. As for the ministry's budget, during talks at the Plan and Budget Commission, Mr. Selçuk explained that they paid $5.1 billion for the two million employees who were granted a long, long, free leave of absence. First of all, this number is pretty poor, and it's based on the unemployment benefit fund. Second, the next stage of free leave is the danger of dismissal. Our country, shaken by economic crises, is in a crisis that deepens with its pandemic. Therefore, the government's primary goal in this process is to ensure the employee's job security. With 2 million trades closed, the record of the republic's history in unemployment was broken, while the number of unemployment is around 12 million, this statement, as if there was a bright, rosey air, did not match the seriousness of the state. Another important issue is a minimum wage increase at the top of the agenda. When it comes to public-private investments, those who distribute billions of dollars without hesitation, as if they were pennies, when it comes to minimum wage, they show tremendous success in convincing our citizens by creating new breakthroughs in community engineering, but now they're down, they're bald. We saw a minister who could not answer the question, "Is the regular wage enough for a family? " In our view, the minimum wage must be tax-free and raised to a human-liveable level. See, we have always expressed our appreciation for the ministry, but it is our duty to say what is wrong and to oppose what is wrong. In the pandemic process, health workers took on all the burdens that were as difficult as the war, and they lost their lives and were not considered martyrs of duty, but they were given empty promises about the return capital and only paid $7 more than that to a nurse, while the government rushed to pay for the foreign currency guarantees he hid from his citizen on account of a trade secret. It is incumbent upon this House to repay the health workers, whose efforts we have contributed nothing but applause. Therefore, leaving empty words aside, it is imperative that all health workers be increased by at least a thousand liras per month. Dear lawmakers, disabled and women's policies are also due to social problems that need immediate intervention. The need to be a social state is to provide financial support for those who are disabled and in need. It is not right to praise the help that has been given to the huge expansion of the sub-income group as a result of poor economic management, and to make it appear that the shortcomings are sufficient. The most fundamental cause of all the negative discrimination that our women have experienced, especially violence on the woman in our country, is that we are far behind in education and women's employment. Violent cases of violence, which grow in proportion to every year in your power, must be known to be impossible to overcome as long as early marriages don't end and you don't make a woman equal in life. Ten per cent of our country's population consists of disabled people. It is a fact that the opportunities for education and employment of disabled persons are extremely limited. Thus, families insist that it is necessary for their disabled parents to have positive discrimination in employment. Children's policies are also intended to save the day. TECHNIC data shows that 720,000, but in reality, about 2 million children's workers, the inability to prevent child abuse, the dramas of our children between the ages of 0 and 6 in prisons, and the presence of our disabled children, especially in the form of education and social life, make it necessary to establish new policies for our children to build our future. It's no different in working life, I'm afraid. The number of union workers with a low rate of 13.66 per cent and very inadequate trade rights, and the increase in the violations of these rights, the work killings, the labor, the problems of unsecured subcontractors who have already existed, while last month's bag was already available, we have seen the government retaining its so-called flexible working model for employees under the 25-year-old and over 50-year-olds who have been delayed to be evaluated after the large response of society and labour unions.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0081par0097	Here you are, Mr. Ilhan.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0080par0098	In addition, the government's government's government-appointed EYT (YIT) people are also waiting for a solution, as well as the government's government officials, who have been waiting for years, who have been promised 3600. Dear lawmakers, according to the Court report, the internal control system is insufficient. How will the Ministry manage a 15-5 billion budget with insufficient institutional infrastructure and control, a non-sustainable, institutional-sustainable financial structure, a massive budgetary institution such as the SGK, which can't take on a permanent, institutional-sustainable financial structure at all costs, predicting about one-third of its budget damage? Is it possible to accept that? See, there are a lot of indications of transparency in the Court reports. What has been done about them? Is the Minister following this? Unfortunately, I regret to inform you that only one-fourth of the difficulties determined by the court have been arranged. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're almost there.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0082par0102	Complete.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0080par0103	I'd like to end by saying that this budget can reduce our debt, increase investment, reduce social trauma, reduce unemployment, and unfortunately not bring no because it can give us growth and hope for our future society, but by restoring my hope for change. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0082par0106	Mr. Ali Fazil Butcher... Here you go, Mr. Butcher.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0083par0109	Mr. Secretary, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. Minister, first of all, I wish you well for your Covid-19 illness. In the meantime, I send my regards to all health workers, health workers, and paramedics who are currently in distress, and I say to them and the relatives of the martyrs, God be patient. Minister, you've provided socioeconomic support to thousands, close to 500,000 of our people, nearly a million of our people; it's admirable. You've paid the pensioners' wages, and you've been gracious. There won't be any subcontractors left in the public. You said, the predecessors before you, the predecessors, unfortunately, are currently subcontractors and even unemployed. Joker workers are out of commission. YOU promised to give the people their due; unfortunately, it was not. You didn't provide equal pay for equal work. 3600 indicators didn't happen, but, by the way, you did something very serious with all the things you couldn't do. What did you do, Mr. Secretary? Even if you denied it, you paid about 420,000 people unwarranted and irregularly, even with the Court reports. Even if you deny that you made this payment at first, in the budget talks, look, you accepted the report of the Office of the disabled and the Elder Services in the following way... at around $690 million. We've only paid 312 people in your budget talks -- written in detentions. I mean, there are people here who know statistics, they know economics. You said, you said, I was there. You have Social Aid and Solidarity Fund revenues; see where they come from: 2.8 per cent of income and institutions tax, 50 per cent of traffic fines, 15 per cent of RTÜK revenues, budget funds and all sorts of donations and donations and other revenues. You've got a fund like this, and you're using the Fund like hell. No accounts, no accounting records; it's in the Court reports. Mr. Secretary, how did you do it to 420,000 people... while our real disabled people are here, they will not be harmed. Also, Mr. Secretary, we know statistics, I'm a medical doctor, we have a course called biostatistics, we've had statistics for a year. We know which number is meaningful and meaningless. 420,000 is a very meaningful and meaningful number, and 7 billion dollars is very, very significant. Let me explain it to you this way: the budget of five ministries is equivalent to the budget of 5 ministries; the budget of 5 ministries is not $7,000, it's not $700,000, it's $7 million, it's $7 billion. There are thousands of people who have been given disability fees, disability pensions, even though they were documented and disabled by the court reports 2018 and 2019, and they've all come to election times. With this money, Mr. Secretary, what could be done? You know that thing you're always bragging about, 20 city hospitals, 35,000 housing, KYK loans could have been canceled, RIT debt could've been canceled, people would've retired right now, and BUG-KUR loans could've been canceled, Mr. Secretary, but you didn't. What did you do instead? You paid 420,000 people for two years and they weren't disabled. Oh, by the way, who were the disabled victims? Look, there's a 95% disability report, and this person can't take it. There's only one disabled person who can move his eyes, who has a two-year report that should be reported for life, and you've cut off his salary for four months, now he's home. You didn't put a salary on these people. As a medic, I'll tell you what kind of painting is the government now? You've suffered multiple organ failure, multiple organ failure. (CHP cheers) Imagine a minister, who owns a hospital, rents space from government institutions. Think of a minister, who has a chain of hotels, who is both the state's tenant and the state's head. There's a minister, he gets paid from three or five places. There's a minister, they have private schools. You have ministers who get paid a few times. You can't help it. You cut off an arm so you wouldn't get gangrene. We learned to resign with Instagram in Instagram. In Turkish, the Turkish language institution's response to reform is equivalent. First of all, there was an Islamic edict, and there was Martin Luther King, and what would you give up?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0084par0116	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0083par0117	Second of all, let me tell you, reform doesn't save, oxygen doesn't go into the brain, it's infected, it's corrupt, it's poor, it's forbidden. As long as you obey these prohibitions and these corruptions yourself, make sure the reform doesn't save you. Mr. Secretary, you know the technology very well, and you know the statistics, and if -- now that it's been established, let me tell you -- if you don't have an Instagram account, let's open an Instagram account. I'm asking you to resign. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0085par0121	Mr. From the Heart... Here you go, Mr. Houser.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0086par0124	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services proposal for Central Management Budget for 2021. I salute the General Assembly and our fellow citizens who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. Dear lawmakers, today is the 10th of December World Human Rights Day. On December 10, 1948, the United Nations, with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, acknowledged that everyone, regardless of their race, language, religion, color, gender, wealth, politics, had equal rights, and declared those rights to all peoples and nations as common ideals. And here we are today discussing the budget of the Ministry, which is responsible for preventing violence against the most common human rights infringement, corruption, unemployment, injustice, inequality, discrimination, and the disadvantaged groups that are being discriminated against and discriminated against. Seventy years later, in our country today where women are victims of blind violence, brutally murdered in the streets, there is no mention of the right of life these days. We can't talk about fair sharing where the revenues that were cut out of the building of employees under the name of tax/fon-fon/prim/e service go to a handful of people. We can't talk about working, working, and finding jobs from four women, where the number of unemployed is more than 10 million, where only one can be employed, where only one can be employed, where only one can be employed, where the funds should be spent in the fund for the unemployed. We can't talk about the assurance that there are over 30,000 work killings in your time, that the laborer's sweat, the labor of the worker, the right to strike, the right to strike, the right to work where he finds the police in front of the person seeking his rights. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Where 32.8 million people owe banks money, we can't talk about the social state where people have to feed on trash cans, market leftovers, and in the days of the epidemic they're sentenced to $39 for poverty, whether it's hunger or disease? We can't talk about protecting children's rights and children in the area of child labor, where 28,360 children have been sexually abused last year. Look, maybe not seventy-one years, but there's a clause in our laws that's been in effect for 15 years: it's considered violence against women, systematic violence as torture. According to this clause, the person who commits acts that will cause someone to suffer is sentenced to two to five years in prison. Why don't we use this clause to the people who committed this crime, the people who committed torture, the people who committed violence against women, and why don't we use Article 96? Mr. Secretary, you don't demand this in cases you're involved in because he says we have this clause. Why don't you demand that it be implemented? (HPP clapping in rows) Mr. Minister may soon appear on the stand, perhaps calling the violence against women like his predecessors the selective one, or even more visible one. He will say, "We have spoken. We have said so." Or, as the civil society claims, every murder is not so much. He will say, "There is no murder of women. There is no murder of women." Now, what would we say if our murdered female brothers and sisters were not 400, but 100? In our country, people don't get killed just because it's a woman. Since he sat in that chair, 1,229 women were killed today, not in death, but in male violence; he went to the ground in his young life, in his young days. And yet, dear friends: Turkey is still at the top of its OECD averages, life-long statistics on violence against women. So the Istanbul Convention wasn't written for nothing, it wasn't approved; it was written to defend its basic right of life, to prevent violence against a woman who was a human right violation, and it was approved. Therefore, instead of discussing the Istanbul Convention, 6284, we need to implement it immediately. So, what's in this budget for women? It's nothing.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0087par0134	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0086par0135	In fact, I'm not surprised because it would be optimistic to see in this budget the understanding of the 11th Development Plan, which eliminates social gender-sensitive budgetation, ignores gender equality, but the people of this country need equality. Those who defend the palace's millions' worth of expenses as a savings from dignity, who sell glory for dignity, who, when it comes to women, save all kinds of savings. We'd like this budget to be fairer, we'd like it to be equitable, because this budget, Mr. Secretary, isn't just about men's taxes, it's about women's taxes. And that's why this budget is not a fair budget, it's not a conscientious budget, and that's where we say we don't accept this unconscionable budget. We'll vote no for this unfair, unconscionable budget. This is what we call it for Emine Bulut, for Gulada Cankel, for all our victims, for our people, for Somalı, for those who have lost their jobs, for those who have lost their rights, for the workers of Ermenek, for the miners, and most importantly for all our citizens and citizens who have been condemned to hunger, for misery. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Hopefully, as my dear friends say, this budget will be your farewell budget, and hopefully, in our power, we'll all do more fair, more egalitarian, more liberal budgets together. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0088par0141	Mr. Ünal Demirtaş... Here you are, Mr. Demirtaş.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0089par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Honourable lawmakers continue to deepen economic depression due to poor management, and the outbreak of Covid-19 has turned into a tsunami. However, both the economic depression and the Covid-19 plague continue to attract the full burden of workers, pensioners, unemployed, off-the-book workers. Mr. Erdogan has recently said that we will not hesitate to apply painful prescriptions if necessary. I'm surprised, since he and his followers live in the palace, I don't think they know anything about real life. Look, right now, we have 10 million, 250,000 unemployed -- the community's historical record -- 5 million people are working off the books under inhuman conditions, 7 million people are getting the minimum salary and the minimum two-tenth minimum wage of Europe under the age of hunger, and 10 million pensioners are trying to live under the minimum wage of starvation. There is a ban on dismissal due to the pandemic, but 1 million people receive short work grants for $1.549 a month, and 2 million people receive cash allowance for $1.168, so 3 million people have been paid like alms for months. Who can live on this charity? Guys, stop drinking bitter medicine, he's drinking poison, poison. I don't know what else you're going to make our citizens drink. Dear lawmakers, when the outbreak of Covid-19 turns into a tsunami today, the wheels of the economy turn. The lives of workers are ignored by the expression. The workplaces are open and the workers are working, but what do you do when you need to increase inspections and inspections in the epidemic? Mr. Secretary, you have thrown 380 business inspectors out of the Ministry and sent them home. You still haven't announced the results of the Business Investigation Exam, which took place two and a half years ago, and you still haven't made the appointment of more than 50 job inspectors. That's why business killings continue to grow in our country. As of November of this year, unfortunately, 2,032 workers have died in business murders, the highest number since 2013. Dear lawmakers, workers must work for hours in environments where distance, mask and hygiene rules are defamed at workplaces. For this reason, 368 workers caught in Covid-19 have lost their lives. Are the families of these workers granted legal rights? Unfortunately for these workers, Covid-19 still doesn't count as a business accident. Families are not given rights; this is wrong, Mr. Secretary. You have no right to drag workers' families through court doors. Either change the social security agency notification or accept our legal proposals, Mr. Secretary, and we'll consider Covid-19 a business accident for the workers. Dear lawmakers, the Covid-19 epidemic is badly ruled in our country and our people continue to die. As of today, we have over 1,100,000 health workers, and our health workers are the heroes of this struggle. We all owe them gratitude and loyalty. Health workers are at the top of the most risky group in Covid-19, 14 times more affected than others, but left vulnerable to the epidemic. Health workers pay the bill for poor pandemic management by losing their lives. As of today, 229 health workers -- 229 health studies that we see here in the photographs -- have lost their lives. Yeah, and 5 percent of the paramedics are down. To all our health workers who died fighting against Covid-19, here, once again, I ask God's mercy and remember them with respect. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, we have offered and provided all kinds of support. We have said that Covid-19 is still not accepted as a professional disease. Mr. Health Minister Fahrettin Husband said that I would be glad if this arrangement were to come out. He said there is a consensus among those in the Commission. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can you give me another minute or two... Mr. Levent, I'd appreciate it if you'd listen. Look, Mr. Gardenli says: "We also make a firm guarantee that we will do whatever falls upon us in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to consider the occupational illness of Covid-19 as a disease." I mean, between power and opposition, there is, in fact, a full understanding, but, unfortunately, there is one person in this room who doesn't want it. Who's that? Our Labour Minister, Mr. Zehra Emerald Selçuk. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Secretary, as of today, 229 health workers have died. And yet, what are you still waiting for? How many more paramedics have to die for this? If anyone's holding you back, tell us, and we'll help you. Mr. Secretary, do you consider our former Zonguldak Governor a liability? If you see them as burdens, we tell you, don't consider health workers a burden. You're in charge of this in the first degree. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One minute, sir, and I'll wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0090par0161	Bow.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0089par0162	To wrap it up, sir, I'm just finishing up. It's not solved because of you, Mr. Secretary, when there's a complete consensus in the Turkish Grand National Assembly on this matter. If this is going to be resolved by the general order, go ahead, solve it, no one's holding it back, but look, if it's going to be solved by law, let's all the political parties in Turkey agree on this, and we'll help you. Dear lawmakers, we all owe loyalty to the dying health workers and to the families they left behind. We owe our loyalty to Nurse Jasmine Colak, who defeated the cancer, but was defeated by Covid-19, and to her child. We owe our loyalty to Sister Dilek Akçabben, whom Covid-19 took from life before we could ever hold her newborn child. (HPP) In his last message before Covid-19 died, we also owe loyalty to the family physician Yavuz Kalaycı, who said, "Do you own my daughters?" [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We owe loyalty to 229 health workers who have died so far, Mr. Secretary. If you are not fulfilling their will, I wish all of our fellow deputies in the Turkish Grand National Assembly to fulfill it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0091par0170	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the speeches are complete. Now, Mr. Group, I have a request from the Vice President... Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0092par0173	I don't want to.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0091par0174	Mr. Danış Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0093par0175	Not yet, maybe later.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0091par0176	Mr. Rich...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0094par0177	I do, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0091par0178	Mr. Rich...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0095par0181	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Sure, it's nice when everything's on time. For once, there's been a decline in my energy, I'm sorry, but I'm going to say it anyway. I mean, it was a little... Of course, in general, I'd like to express a few things about the HDP Group first. I'd like to give an answer not to individual speakers, but also to the lack of time. Now, I'm particularly concerned about the issue of the male budget that's used a lot in speeches. Because there's a remarkable separative language here, so from the moment the women's accent turns against the men from time to time in conversation about women, it's starting to turn against the women, too, so the balance here is very important. In defending women's rights -- as a mother of three -- I think it's very important that together, together, together, men and women, side by side, in an equal, fair environment, in a legal state, in an approach to equality within the law, in an understanding of equality. Of course, one of the most important reasons is that I've never seen you use the word "Kurt," "Kurdish," "Kurdish," "Kurdish," "Kurdish," "Kurdish" or "Kurdish people." I've never heard you use that word before.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0096par0187	Look at the records, they all have them.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0095par0188	No, no...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0097par0189	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0095par0190	You're constantly using a separative language to pronounce it, and I see that it's a remarkable part of the man-woman thing now. Now, it's an important issue, you say: there's aggression against those outside the family. It's a woman's choice, whether she'll be a family or a marriage or a marriage; it's her own decision, her own choice, and you can't see the slightest prohibitive attitude about it. I mean, I can't figure out where or how to get this thing out. Then another expression is political. You say violence is political. I think this statement applies to your thesis: violence is political. Why? So your political approach is part of the violence, and it creates violence. In fact, I'm bored over all of this, but I'm forced to do it because you're making so many accusations. Look, when your deputies were lawmakers... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0098par0196	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0095par0197	You're a congressman...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0099par0198	We did what we had to do, what did you do with your congressman? He's still sitting in your desks.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0095par0199	Miss Ayþe, I haven't even said it yet, I haven't opened my mouth yet, so you're so... you know what I'm going to say before I say it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0099par0200	You're repeating it over and over again.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0095par0201	What do you mean, not at all, it's like you're saying something different, saying the same thing a thousand times, and I'm only gonna answer a thousand times. Now, you see, Tuma Steel raped a woman while she was your proxy, while she was your proxy. While he was your deputy, another MP beat up his own wife, and there's no need to go any further, even when you know it. Your MPs have committed more than one of the worst crimes a woman could have committed. Now, in this case, it means that your own policies are producing violence, which is, by the way, continuing to produce violence. I'll tell you one last thing about this. Now, one of your orators said: I'm proud of my last name. Now, are there any of the MPs here who are not proud of their last name under normal circumstances? I'm proud of my last name, too.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0100par0204	He's being bullied.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0095par0205	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0100par0206	Don't twist it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0095par0207	But I never...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0100par0208	Don't flex, don't twist, don't tease!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0095par0209	Can I finish this before you attack? I'm not saying I'm ever proud of my name or my name.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0100par0210	If he gets bullied, you can tell him.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0095par0211	I am, yes, and I'm proud of my last name and my last name. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0101par0214	Complete.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0102par0215	There was teasing, teasing.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0095par0216	Wait a second... But you deliberately repeat your last name, and you say: "I'm proud of your last name. " This has a message, it has a message for us, it has a message for Turkey. You say: "We are proud of Abdullah Ocalan. " This is the message.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0103par0218	That's what he'll say if you mess with our proxy over his last name.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0095par0219	As always, you, with terror...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0103par0220	But that's not gonna happen. You've judged the deputy over his last name.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0095par0221	Is that how you respond to every tease? That's not how you give it. It can't happen all the time. So you've done this before from these platforms; there was a very young lady here, just so she could sit on the stand -- remember -- in the 25th term -- Ocalan -- you want to provoke this nation by doing this.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0104par0222	Don't flex, don't twist!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0095par0223	Yes, come and talk, you must have other qualities.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0104par0224	You're twisting it, or you don't know the Parliamentary rules.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0095par0225	But you, on these platforms, I'm proud of that last name. When you say, "I'm proud of terrorism, I'm proud of PKK," no matter what you say, it's equal.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0104par0227	He sat there because he was the youngest and the oldest.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0095par0228	Let's not beat around the bush. You're making small talk, and you're accusing me of not knowing.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0105par0230	Complete.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0095par0231	When you come here, you terrorize this House by saying your name, Mr. Ocalan. Your policies produce violence, our own language of expression generates violence, divides the woman, divides the man; worse, you divide the nation by making a Turkish-Kurdish distinction in this country. That's how I put it. Mr. President, if I can't get word back, I'd like to express a few things about CHP, or rather, I have a few statements about the Ministry of Energy, but I think it's been a little too much, and I'd like to answer what our CHP deputy friends in our Ministry of Energy say -- including letters. I'm sure you'll give him an opportunity in time. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0106par0235	Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0107par0238	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, today was the fourth anniversary of Beşiktaş's attack, where 46 of our citizens lost their lives, including 39 of law enforcement personnel and 7 of their civilian citizens; we remember them with respect and mercy, and we curse them, no matter who the terror comes from, no matter who it comes from. Today is December 10th Human Rights Day, and he has just voiced several speakers in this regard. In Turkey, unfortunately, on December 10th, on Human Rights Day, we face reports of multiple rights violations from all areas of society, from all geography of Turkey and from many areas of the public. It's just that sometimes some of the intervention that reminds me of the very old times, the creepy ones, they're at the point where the villagers fall from the helicopter.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0108par0242	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0107par0243	You see, this is violations of rights and rights to treatment in prisons despite the conditions of Covid without a lawyer's trial in court, and on the other hand, there are violations of the right to fair trial and basic constitutional guarantees, and at the very beginning of that, we've seen the Constitutional Court's decision -- we should all obey the Minister of Justice's decision -- but what should I do, should I wear the robe? Even though he said, we're in a position to stand up against Parliament's decisions, to challenge the common community agreement. And as a concrete example -- it's always said -- I read it yesterday, and I was surprised. Ayşegül Doğan has heard four meetings from tens of thousands of meetings, and later, the expert has found that this evidence, which has not been collected in accordance with the law, has been tampered with.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0108par0245	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0107par0246	However, he was sentenced to six years in the news he did, for a promise his editor had made in a program. On the Day of Human Rights, we cannot close our eyes to these violations, nor can we close our conscience. I wanted to express them. And finally, I have to say, there's an argument going on about the name Ocalan, and we're not on the side of that argument. You don't say you're proud of someone. They argue, they can do that, but we've seen those who helped out of their last name just before the June 23rd elections. Those who took Osman Ocalan's cameraman from Abdullah Ocalan, who had not been found by MIT, and who had sent a letter from Abdullah Ocalan to your constituent in İstanbul, who were proud of his last name and must also think of the possibility of a political struggle.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0109par0249	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0110par0250	Mr. Danış Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0109par0252	There's bullying, but I want to talk about it from here.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0110par0253	It's all yours, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0109par0254	Mr. President, to be honest, Mr. Rich has made a rather large statement against our speakers. I've got a lot to answer for, but first I'll tell you, it's a separator, our language, separating men. The mother of three children -- God bless her -- I have two sons. I don't think it's right to use such a language about manhood and femininity. Our child can be a boy, she can be a girl, we're drawing another gender picture. Now, why does CEDAW exist? The Agreement for the Elimination of All Types of Segregation Against Women, positive discrimination. Why are we discussing the quota? Because women are disadvantaged because men and women don't live with the same opportunities, the same opportunities in life, both in politics and in employment and in labor, in every aspect of life. I would advise Mr. Rich to practice some more women's rights.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0111par0256	Are you talking to me?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0112par0258	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0109par0259	Women's rights are not separative, but a perspective that advocates the equality of women and men. Besides, violence against women is, of course, political. That's right, that's our political understanding. They may prefer to shut down domestic violence as special, but we see both domestic violence in the streets and violence in the custody and violence in the prison as political. We say it's a male approach that moves with the codes of the male sovereign system, and we stand by it, it's political, so I'm not even discussing it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0113par0261	The rape of Tuma Steel? Is Tuma Steel rape political?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0109par0262	I'll come, be patient, I'll come to him. When you say Kurdish people, sir, they don't say Turkish. Oh, my God! His partners sit on the stand every day saying, "Happy is the Turk."
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0113par0264	HDP MP's legal understanding is rape?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0109par0265	But I really listened to you, I really did. I'll give you an answer, then you answer.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0113par0266	I'm listening.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0109par0267	It's the identity of a man that hurts. As they say, so do we. Why? Kurdish language is forbidden, no ID, no culture. There are objections every day because we call them Kurtt,.... Kurdistan, so we tell them.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0114par0269	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0109par0270	If there was no discrimination, I swear, I'm nowhere. I'm not saying I'm Kurdish, except here. You're so hard on us here, we have to tell you who we are. As for the so-called matter, I asked Mr. Saruhan, where Huseyin Yayman said -- I learned his name from Omar Deputy -- that you are a deputy through your so-called name. Until now, I am proud of this chair, and I am proud of it from here. We are all proud of our last name; of course we are proud of our family, of our past. But I would like to remind you that his Deputy Prime Minister, Bashir Atalay, said in his day -- just reminding -- that for Ocalan, Mr Abdullah Ocalan, he said that he was the leader of the Kurds, whether you like him or not.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0115par0272	He binds himself.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0109par0273	Where did we come from? I mean, I can make hundreds of promises about it. And I'll tell you this: We decide who we call, who we don't tell. No one else can dictate that to us.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0116par0276	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0109par0277	So in your political interest when it suits you, according to your calculations, it's not for us to go to Imran Island, bring letters, bring pictures, have interviews, and then come here and throw away the term "interceptor" here. We were behind the solution process yesterday, and we're behind it today. Today, we argue that talks should be held in Imran. We, the HDP, are on the side of resolution and peace. There's nothing to be ashamed of, there's nothing to be bored of, because there's blood running through this country, blood. People are dying.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0117par0278	You're leaking!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0109par0279	We run democratic politics at the same time for peace. Finally, I think it was Tuma Steel and Mensur Light.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0117par0281	I think so! I think so!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0118par0282	Miss Miss Özlem, listen.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0109par0283	At the time, we said, "We are standing right in front of us, outside of us, both here and at press conferences, both in our provinces and in our councils, about the allegations of harassment or violence." I even said if I had an eye, I'd take it off. Neither one of them is a member of our party right now.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0117par0284	When did they do it?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0119par0285	Look at Smurf. Where's Smurf, Smurf?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0109par0286	We showed our own attitude. Well, I'm asking them, I'm asking them as a criminal lawyer: Nadira was found dead in the home of the Kadirova MPs, dead.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0117par0288	I'm asking, when did they do it?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0109par0289	He was found dead. Is there anything more to it than that?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0120par0290	He was just sitting here.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0121par0291	It's a shame! You can't question murder... it says murder.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0122par0293	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0123par0294	Now, what happens in criminal law -- let all criminal lawyers listen? A woman was found dead in my house with my gun. I may not have committed it, look, I'm not saying he did it, but he's a minimum suspect. He's a suspect!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0121par0295	What are you implying?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0124par0296	Yours isn't. We're not talking about the same thing. Suspect not found.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0123par0297	Not a single day has been investigated, not even a non-obsession decision has been made, not an investigation. Tolga Agha, Yeldana Kaharman has been found dead. Yeah, we're talking about death.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0124par0299	Right, rape is less important!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0125par0300	Rape is irrelevant!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0124par0301	You're right, rape is less important to you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0126par0302	Why are you shutting down these two murders? If you're not guilty, go before the judge, answer and let him judge. Yeah, we're a party that said yes to the removal of immunity even on the Commission.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0124par0303	What are you gonna say after you go public?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0126par0304	We're proud of it, but they're hiding, leading to rape, harassment, murder, and misogyny, and then they can't come in here and talk to us over our deputies.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0127par0306	You're making these speeches to get on top like olive oil.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0128par0307	Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0129par0309	Mr. President, thank you. Now, Mr. Free Special, I expect you to tell me, of course, that if you say you're not involved -- I'm not saying anything to you, I'm telling the HDP Group -- you shouldn't interfere, but if you are, it becomes a strange thing. So, like your relationship in politics, are you or are you not together? So, here, when we look at it, if you're not interfering -- I'm saying from your point of view -- it's normal for you to say that HDP is using the name Ocalan, that the AK PARTI is doing this in your thesis. If you're getting involved, negative them both. If you're not interfering, please stop. I'm not telling you anything.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0130par0311	Look what you've done.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0129par0312	Just a second, please. I'm not talking about football, I'm talking about my thesis. It does not interfere, and when it does, I expect a fair approach from Free Bey, and I expect a proportional approach from his thesis. Now, in the matter of Ocalan being told in TRT, it's strange, but I was on duty, as I remember today, and it's been a lot of news, and I'm saying it again in a very comfortable way, as someone who said that I'd never found it right, that TRT would never be able to extend such a microphone.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0131par0315	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0129par0317	No, not at all. In this party, including me, here, very clearly... [[You used it in the CHP rows.]] Oh, wait, I'm just saying, for God's sake, what's he using? I was on call, and I made it very clear here that this was all over the network. I'll say it one more time. Now, come on, you did it, we did it. Look, here's the problem: you're the one who accused us on the stand. I remember that your friends, your friends, were elected MPs from you, that you accused us of...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0132par0321	Get out of power, we'll answer to you. You're in power, leave those seats.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0129par0322	How quickly did you forget the disgusting words from these parts, including your female deputies who spoke today, when you called us rapists? When you said that, your own friends raped, hit his wife...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0133par0323	Do you have a decision?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0134par0324	Yes!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0129par0325	Yes! So...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0133par0327	Where'd you hear that?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0134par0328	Is there a decision? You accused the congressman of murder. Let's open the records, you said murder.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0135par0329	Yes, murder!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0136par0331	Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0137par0332	Now, Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0135par0333	Yes, murder!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0138par0334	No, you don't.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0137par0335	Mr. Hasan, please. Now, my dear friends, look, it takes a certain phase of law procedure to prepare a review and come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to pass through the Karma Commission. These commissions looked at these case files, looked at them. Your friends... your immunity has been decided.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0139par0337	Why didn't you do the cute thing?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0137par0338	And you say: I think his name was Mensur. It's a shame! I think it's Mensur! I think so!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0140par0339	Oh, what a way to talk!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0137par0340	How quickly do you forget? Your memory really amazes me, you're giving me advice, women's rights, my life has been fought by them, but you've told me enough, enough, enough, so much about what we're fighting about. Now, about our own congressman, if you'd like to file a statement regarding our...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0141par0342	Why didn't you do it for Smurf Ünal?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0142par0343	Murderer...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0143par0344	Will you shut up! Will you shut up!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0142par0345	We won't shut up!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0144par0346	If you don't shut up, fine!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0143par0347	Deputy Director of the Group, will you shut him up?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0142par0349	Even your Deputy Director of the Group is talking!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0144par0350	No, there's no such thing there. Mr. President, I'm going to tie you up with this, and I'm going to say, if something like this comes up about our own MPs, about the removal of immunity, I'm going to raise my hand, I'm going to vote.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0145par0352	You're not!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0144par0353	We don't look like them. Yes, rape is a small crime for you, beating women is a minor crime, that's exactly what this speech shows.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0146par0354	Thank you, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0147par0355	Go on, go on!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0148par0356	We will, we will.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0147par0357	Scream, guys, shout.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0148par0358	We have no questions for you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0147par0359	Guys, we're gonna listen quietly, we're not gonna be disrespectful. Leave them alone.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0149par0360	Friends, let's discuss...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0150par0361	Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0151par0363	Mr. President, there's been an accusation against me, and I'll answer him first: let's ask for the transcripts, and if I don't call it a bet and a suspect, I'll apologize.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0152par0364	You said murder!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0151par0365	I said murder investigation. That's what I'm saying again: who's 83 million in Turkey...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0152par0366	You said...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0151par0367	Wait a minute, I'm repeating myself. Which one of us -- I've given myself an example -- that if a person is found dead in his house, and he has his own gun, he's minimally suspicious, I said it's under investigation, and I'm still saying that. I mean, I'm not against it. But I don't judge like they do because they don't! Now, Mr. Rich said something very important, very important, and if the immunity file comes, I'll say yes.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0153par0368	About this.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0151par0369	Yeah, yeah, that's what I'm saying. And I'm asking, who's preparing immunity proceedings in this country?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0153par0371	Who's making it?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0151par0372	Prosecutors. Who do the prosecutors depend on? We talk all day long, the one who prepares the trial and the one who brings it here...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0153par0373	Then why are we sitting here? Why are we here? I never accept that.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0151par0374	...is the same power, Mr. President, which is the majority in the commission, and the decision made by the court.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0154par0376	Complete.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0151par0377	Why is there no immunity for violence, domestic violence, and no immunity for the death of two young women? Where are these prosecutors? Where are these prosecutors really? I mean, why don't the real prosecutors set up a hearing here? We didn't say a word at the meeting we attended, and we sat down and listened -- we're having a discussion, and he says, "You've been silent and you've been propaganda an organization." So there's no judgment. And lastly, let me tell you, I'm gonna see if they're gonna be a little embarrassed. I'm reading the report on Omar Ocalan, Mr. President: By shouting, it does not work out, by saying terror.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0155par0380	Yeah, what's your last name?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0156par0381	I'm proud of my last name.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0157par0382	That's why you're here, because of the last name.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0156par0383	I'm proud. Know this very well, I will continue to live with that last name, but not with such aggressive policies.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0158par0384	He brought you here with that last name.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0156par0385	And the people brought me here, and the will of our people brought me, and brought 300,000 votes, and stood not up against the people, neither stand by the strikers.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0159par0388	I'm ending it, Mayor.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0160par0389	They're full of shit.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0161par0390	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0159par0391	Why would we say our last name if it wasn't a tease? Are we crazy out of the blue? I mean, none of us did.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0161par0392	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0159par0393	Finally, my dear friend -- journalist -- daughter of the late Orhan Doğan, daughter of Ayşegül Doğan, and unfortunately, he was sentenced to six years and three months for journalistic activity last week. His father served ten years in prison, we lost a heart attack, and Ayşegül Doğan is a television journalist; he knows all Turkey; he studied at the press university in France -- I forgot his name now -- is trying to create a terrorist even from Ayşegül Doğan. We are with Ayşegül Doğan, Ayşegül Doğan is a journalist; journalism is not a crime.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0162par0395	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0161par0396	Dear Private...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0162par0398	Mr. President, basically, Mrs. Özlem didn't say anything in style that would require continuing a polemic, but from context, we've had a very fundamental issue of which I object to the Justice and Development Party, I'll tell you that. Miss Özlem says I didn't find it right for the cameraman to go to Osman Ocalan.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0163par0400	Yeah.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0162par0401	It's an important find, but it's not the broadcast policy of the TRT ▪ it's divided here, it's the local election policy of the Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0163par0402	It's not.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0162par0403	Because Osman Ocalan is wanted with a red bulletin, it is not possible for him to go to Erbul, where a cameraman and a reporter from TRT will find his home without the knowledge of the MIT. In the same days, Abdullah Ocalan, who was not a lawyer, but a scientist, who we learned was not a member of the family, that he was on the bench at a university, one of them came and read a letter to the Anadolu Agency and was completely directed for the Istanbul elections. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0164par0406	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0162par0407	Mr. Rich, in his statement, not from the Anadolu Agency, but directly -- there's MIT in the business -- without the President's permission -- a scientist from Elazığ, who got up and went to İmralı, and got letters from Anadolu Agency to read it and served it and was broadcast on all TVs and the president didn't know about it. If you say that the position you've broken is Recep Tayyip Erdogan's political strategy attitude on June 23rd.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0165par0409	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0164par0410	Mr. Rich, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0165par0412	I'll finish it quickly. Now, I think it's good that Mr. Free didn't go in, because I didn't say anything to him, but now that you told me, I have to say it. Now, look, Mr. Özgür, you're talking about local elections, Bese Hozat said: "We'll vote for the PRP." Murat Karayilan said: "We'll support the CHP, we won't nominate it, we'll support it." [[Noises from CHP rows]] Then you probably don't read it, read it, my dear friends; instead of watching a goal, read it, and when you read it, you'll see that there are these expressions. So, I'm making it very clear what I mean. These podiums are no place to challenge. Anyone can of course say what they want, but I have to say that if they're in the system, friends, if Turkey accepts the Grand National Assembly, if they're here, if they're here, they can't continue by accepting the existence of some of the institutions of the Republic of Turkey, denying some of its existence.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0166par0417	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0165par0418	Every decision the courts of the Republic of Turkey have made against you is wrong, the decisions they have made on other matters are right... so I don't see how that makes any sense. Do the judges and prosecutors of this country have to pass your test every time? There's no way to accept that. Also: Since you're so brave -- you hardly remember the names of your friends -- but you make a comeback when it suits you -- none of your deputies came in and voted during these votes; just Abdullah Coach Bey said, "We will not vote, we won't participate." Oh, what you did -- I'm a fair person -- is that after the incident came out, you and the party were sensitive about breaking off, yes, and I'm not saying that.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0167par0420	You do it, you do it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0165par0421	But the point is, before this comes public, when you accuse us, when you insult us, when your own friends attack us, and you know that, that's the problem, you know that.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0168par0424	Complete it, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0165par0425	You know that, knowingly. Your friends listened to the lady, tried to silence her.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0169par0426	Lies, all lies.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0165par0427	Come on, brother, let's not be humiliated.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0169par0428	It's all lies.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0165par0429	Oh, you've got no choice after you've gone public. So what are you gonna do? You'll keep your distance, you have no choice. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0170par0432	Mr. President, very short, very short...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0171par0433	Mr. Danış Beştaş, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0170par0436	When I was sitting in my room, I had a review, and I saw from the group, that it belonged to Tuma Steel. I won't take an oath, it's not elegant; we signed with Saruhan Bey at the same time and sent it to the Central Disciplinary Board.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0172par0437	Bravo! Tell me about before.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0170par0438	If they're claiming we knew before, please let them prove it, it's one. Second of all, from New Dawn to A News, all the media tried to slander our party through Mensur Light and Tuma Steel for two weeks. They don't know where they're going to attack, they've found stuff like this, they've swooped in like Moors, and they're not getting any bread out of here, and now they're telling us something new.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit03spe0173par0440	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0173par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with Central Management Budget Law Proposal in 2021 and the Central Management Act in 2019. 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Nuclear Organising Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account MIDDLE DETECTIVE AND EARCH GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2019 Central Management Predictable Account ÜRKEY ATOM INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Occupational Qualification Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Occupational Qualification Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account EVLET PERSONEL PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 The commission is in place. In the third round, we begin speeches on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Mr Mehmet Sait Kirazoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Kirazoglu.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0174par0046	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group on the budget of our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for 2021. I salute your high council and our beloved nation. I bless those who have died in the treacherous terrorist attack in Beşiktaş; I congratulate you on the Day of Human Rights on December 10th, in the hope that all mankind will live in peace, peace, and happiness by saying no to all kinds of terror, violence, racism. Respectable lawmakers, our Ministry of Energy and Resources has been focusing on our local resources and has been working intensively on reducing external dependence on energy within the framework of sustainability, strengthening supply security, strengthening energy infrastructure and prioritizing energy efficiency from renewable energy to nuclear in our country, oil, natural gas exploration to domestic coal and energy efficiency, working in all areas of energy. In parallel with Turkey's growth, the demand for energy increases in Turkey. Between 2000-2018, the annual demand for electricity has increased by an average of 3 per cent in the world, while this rate in our country has been 5 per cent. Again, with policies for renewable energy, more than half of our total electricity production in the first half of the year 2020 was obtained from these sources, making a new record for daily production. We are the 6th in Europe in the renewable energy board, the 13th in the world, the 7th in Europe on the power of wind power, the 12th in the world, and the 7th in Europe on the power of solar power, the 13th in the world. Dear lawmakers, studies continue in mining to determine and expose our potential in terms of industrial raw materials, metallic mines and energy raw materials in our country. As part of the work on securing the supply safety of raw materials and improving the value of mining inland, increasing the value of addition and contributing to the country's economy, some 90 types of mines in the world are already in our country, and 60,000,000 of its love is already being brought into the economy in our country. In 2002, the mining sector exported $382m, while in 2019 it exceeded $3.2 billion. Local coal has a significant price effect on energy prices due to our commitment to oil and natural gas. To this end, a reserve of 19.3 billion tonnes has been created by working on our linite reserve in order to continue our work by increasing its share in the production of electricity energy, leading to more domestic coal resources. I hereby congratulate you on the Day of the Miners of December 4th, the symbol of our labor and sweat. From 1980, when natural gas began to be used in our country, annual gas consumption of 500 million cubic metres has reached 45 billion cubic metres, and is now used in all of our 81 counties and 560 residential units, with only 5 cities with natural gas. About 82 percent of our population, our households, have access to natural gas. Mr. President, the Turkish Oil Anonymous Partnership continues by increasing search and production activities in land and sea areas abroad and in order to reach local sources of oil and natural gas, which our country is highly addicted to import. Today, at the same time, we're celebrating the 66th anniversary of the 66th Foundation, and I'm a part of a period of Turkey's Oil Association's founding anniversary, giving all its employees welcome and love from here. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] With a strategy focused on searching and production in our country's land areas, the production record of the last 20 years has been broken and production of oil and gas from domestic and abroad has reached the highest level in its history by up to 150,000 barrels.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0175par0057	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0174par0058	Again, in 2012, when I served with our ministers and the President's instructions, the Barbaros Hayreddin Paşa ship, followed by an inventory of Fatih and other drilling ships in 2017, Turkey became one of the only three countries now considered capable of drilling in deep-sea gas exploration with domestic and national possibilities. The discovery, as you all know at the Danube-1 well, is not only the greatest discovery in the history of Turkish sea search, but also the greatest discovery in the world in 2020. In 2023, this 405 billion cubic metres of natural gas we discovered in the Sakarya field will hopefully be presented to the service of our industry and our households. Mr. President, it is possible that our energy potential in the Eastern Mediterranean would be brought to our country and the world based on international principles of law that all coastal friends and actors would cooperate according to the international calls of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0176par0062	Let's bow.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0174par0063	. The agreement signed between Turkey and Libya in this scope... is that we will never give up on international law in the Eastern Mediterranean... and on the interests of our country... and we will never give up on the destruction of the rights of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] With these thoughts, I would like to welcome you all with respect to our nation, our state, and our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0176par0067	Mr. Ahmet Mujahid Arinc... Here you go, Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0177par0070	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the AK PARTY Group on the budget of our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for 2021. I hereby salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Honourable lawmakers are now among the main problems of economic and social life, creating safe, affordable, clean energy for all countries around the world because energy resources are expendable, the presence of external dependency and environmental impacts. In our country, which is rapidly growing with its industry, its economy and its population, the need for energy is constantly increasing. Our country, which is dependent on the outside of hydrocarbon resources, is taking decisive steps to transform the current and external trade deficit, the most important result of its addiction, in its own favour. In this framework, we have recently received good news from our deep sea drilling ships and our seismic search ships, which we have provided our country under our national energy policy, whose foundations have been laid down during our rule, and we expect good news from the work that is already under way. Of course, one of the things that needs to be discussed about our national energy policy is the relationship between foreign policy and energy. I think we need to be very clear about something here. Turkey will not hesitate or hesitate to use all its resources to maintain its legitimate and legal rights in the Eastern Mediterranean and Aegean. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Hydrocarbon resources in these areas must be shared fairly and fairly by all entity countries. Some of the thesis and so - called maps that are incompatible with international law and conscience are not acceptable. Just as yesterday, in order to protect our interests in the blue country, if we have signed the Libyan Treaty of Maritime Authority, we will not hesitate to do what is necessary to defend our legitimate rights in the future. Respected lawmakers, the uninterrupted and diversified energy supply, one of the most basic building blocks of a sustainable economic development move, is a force that expands the influence of our country in the international arena when combined with the geostrategic importance that we have. While our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources continues to diversify our country's energy resources, our country's new source of resources is renewable, environmental sustainability, local and national, at the core of our country's energy policies. Our country, which is a bridge between Asia and Europe, is at the transit point of many international projects and benefits from these projects. A total of 16 billion cubic metres of natural gas will be carried to our country, 10 billion cubic metres of Europe, thanks to TANAP, which was planned to transfer gas from the gas fields in the Caspian Sea of Azerbaijan, the friend, sister and sister country. The Trans Adriatic Pipeline, an important link to European energy supply security, is completed. In addition, the project was inaugurated on January 8, 2020, with the participation of our President and the President of the Russian Federation. The most effective sources of energy are renewable sources of energy in order to prevent addiction to external sources in energy and to prevent any resource from appearing in such defects as extinction, interruptions. In view of this, our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources devotes serious resources to the YEKA Projects. We aim to see that electricity from renewable energy sources in 2023 is equal to 30 percent of the total electricity consumed. In addition to YEKA RES-1, the YEKA RESA Project, each of which is 1,000 megawatts of board power, has been launched to establish 74 solar-powered facilities based on our 36 provinces. Our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources continues to work in the field of nuclear energy, which can be described as the most effective energy, as long as it is produced by non-profit plants and under the supervision of professionals. Because of the lack of carbon dioxide and greenhouse gases, the Kyoto Protocol continues the workforces that we have conducted in Russia and Mersin, Japan and Sinop (now) for this energy source, which is also the most important way to meet the limits brought in as soon as possible. At the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant, which is under construction in Mersin, the first unit is scheduled to be taken into operation by 2023, and the other units are scheduled to be launched by the end of 2026, one year apart. The CED process on the project has been completed. For our third nuclear power plant, locator efforts continue. Honourable MPs, I would like to share with you the path we have taken in the use of our current resources, as well as our efforts to finally create new resources. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0178par0085	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0177par0086	The year we came to power, the total export of the mining sector in Turkey was $382m, while the amount rose to $3.2 billion in 2019. Once again, local electricity production met 50 per cent of total production the year we came to power, while it reached 60 per cent as of October 2020. In 2002, 25 per cent of our total population was able to use natural gas, while by October 2020, it increased to more than 80 per cent. A fully independent Turkey in energy also means a fully independent Turkey in the economic field, in the international arena and in the national defence axis. The more local and national energy we have in the construction of the future's powerful Turkey, the stronger our country's steps towards becoming a global power will be. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) With independent energy, strong Turkish understanding, we will continue to work with all our might to release a prosperous Turkey to future generations. With such feelings and thoughts, I salute your grand delegation, calling upon Almighty God to bring blessings to our nation by the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021. Yours truly.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0179par0091	Here you are, Mr. Metin Bulut.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0180par0093	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of the Department of Energy and Natural Resources. I salute your high council and my dear nation with respect and conversation. In fact, I was going to do my speech at this minimum, and I was going to do all my preparation at this minimum, but after the speech of Mr. Ali Mahir Bey, after the speech of Mr. Meral Danış Beştaş, I couldn't restrain my handiness, I felt compelled to have this conversation. I apologize for that, Mr. Secretary, he'll tell you when he gets here tonight. Of course, he cares a lot about two things, his government and his nation. It's the red line of the state and its nation. So, when spoken to by his government and his people, he becomes a lion. See, the first day's opening address, Mr. Engin Altay, says: "No state can pay an additional performance fee to its driver for $7.40. The state has paid a performance fee for its staff, it has 7 euros left, it has paid it, and this friend is leaving. It says, "This is no state." That's not the point. The state which considers even seven TL of its people holy, and does not prevent it from paying it is lawful and lawful.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0181par0097	It's not like that, it's all $7. They're all $7, Deputy.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0180par0098	I don't know how these CHP people's minds work. It's working backwards, so they ride the escalator backwards.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0181par0099	It's all $7, all of it! Don't flex!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0180par0100	Another thing: Look, the way I'm honored to be a member of parliament together are the words spoken about my friend Tolga Agar. HDP Group Deputy President has stated that Mr. President, who has been constantly talking about rights, talks about justice, talks about freedom, has been charged with an illegal charge, with a non-responsive charge, has accused my friend here. Tolga recognizes the land, and Elazig knows it well. My brother Tolga Agar knows exactly where to stand, and he knows who to fight, and he's a friend of mine who knows exactly what line to take. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) So I'd like to point out that I'm condemning you for these baseless accusations. If you're going to accuse, if you're really going to answer someone, give that answer to your friends from Ce-Ha-Pe-Pe, who have been trying to cover up harassment and rape cases for ten days.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0182par0101	Their own MPs, their own lawmakers...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0180par0102	In the same way, look, I'm going to say a few paragraphs from the first day of Mr. Kilicdaroğlu's speech; I wouldn't really mention it if he had said it once, but I would not have mentioned it once, but he said three or four times in his consultation: this Parliament, which is the basis of national will, yes, Mr. Kildaroglu; this Parliament, this Gazi Parliament is the epitome of the national will, it has been this for a hundred years, and will continue to happen in the future, if God grants it. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) The fact that you're the President, that you're the MP doesn't give you the right to speak to this Parliament. This Parliament was not built so easily; thousands of people were martyred for this House, Seyit Corporal was put under the burden of this House, and Nene Hatuns suffered for it, and many people died for it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0183par0103	Your former partner also bombed this Assembly, tell me about it! Tell him your old partner bombed the Assembly!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0180par0104	Inquisiting this House, mocking this House, it means questioning the people themselves, it means mocking the people themselves.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0183par0105	Remember Ataturk, Ataturk! This is the Ataturk, who opened the Veteran Assembly, remember him!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0180par0106	People will give their answers to anyone who mocks them in the box every semester.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0183par0107	Why don't you talk about Ataturk? You owe him your legislature, remember?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0180par0109	Dear Congressman, it is not against me that you will do this to the president of the nation and the nation's Parliament, and you will do this to the Grand Assembly, which is the true representative of the national will, and I salute the great Assembly with respect, love, and conversation.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0184par0111	Mr. President, we're gonna have to tell him to file a report.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0185par0112	After the negotiations have been completed...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0184par0113	Mr. President, we need to tell him to go on the record.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0185par0114	I'll give you my word after it's done, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0184par0115	For the record, Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0185par0117	Please... look... Excuse me, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0184par0119	Mr. President, Mr. Engin Altay is being paid $7. When he said that he didn't have an extra $7, he meant $7 total, but he didn't understand it, just like he didn't understand it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0185par0120	Thank you, Mr. Oztunç.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0184par0121	Mr. President, no one has spoken of the will of the House, but the ministers who do not respond to the questions they have sent to the ministers are desecrating the House.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0185par0122	It's in the transcripts, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0184par0123	Finally, Mr. President, he says, "Look, the Ark." The last crate came to this land in the Istanbul elections. 800,000 votes and 800,000 hits, they can't stomach it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0185par0125	Mr. Ertunç Erkan Axe... Here you go, Mr. Axe.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0186par0127	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of the Energy Market Editing Agency, which is part of the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the General Assembly and the nation who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. I don't think it's necessary to talk about the importance of energy today. From the 2001s when our party came to power, the years of economic disasters chasing each other, the years of social disasters chasing each other, I think there's a significant part of the Energy Market Organization. We also have to see some figures in order to show what a country that has come out of a 2001 crisis is able to accomplish when Turkey is using its potential correctly, when the EPDK opens its way to its investor, when it builds fair and competitive markets with its EPDK hands. See, today, Turkey's electricity market has produced over 300 terawatts, making it the fourth largest market in Europe. In 19 years, Turkey's power to the power board has increased by about 3.5 times, while electricity demand has increased by 2.5 times. At this time, the electricity market invested over $120 billion in fixed capital. In the days when the EPDK (EPDK) began operating, only the power of the power board reached 94,000 megawatts today, and more than 50 per cent of that figure is made up of renewable energy sources. Our power on renewable energy sources is 290 per cent -- yes, 290 per cent -- increasing from 12,000 megawatts to 47 thousand megawatts. So why are these numbers important, dear friends? Renewable energy means generating energy from our own resources. Renewable energy means creating environmentally friendly energy for the future of our young people, our children. From the years when the wind's solar energy was not even read, today we have become a country that can regenerate 60 percent of our total energy production and produce local resources. Within 2020, electricity was converted to a capacity of close to 2,000 megawatts, and 97 per cent of that number are renewable sources. In the solar-energy panel factory recently opened, 1,400 people work and produce domestic panels. With nearly $1 billion invested, our solar power plant in Karapınar will provide the energy of our 2 million citizens. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in my speech on this stand again last year, we will receive good news from our ministry's search and drilling activities, which have stressed the weak hand of our country as sources of hydrocarbons, such as oil and natural gas. I expressed our hope. Praise be to you, we are not ashamed, those good news are not delayed, and our President may have shared the best news of our republic with our nation. The 405 billion cubic cubic metres of natural gas discovered in the Sakarya gas field will not only meet our need for billions of dollars, but will also contribute greatly to Turkey's goal of becoming an energy trading centre. You know, for years Turkey has been judged as a corridor country, transit country in energy, and so it has been expressed. Today, everyone agrees that this dress is too narrow for Turkey, which has the fourth largest natural gas market in Europe. Turkey's primary goal is to become a trade centre in natural gas. Turkey's organised gas markets will be one of the few developed gas trade centres in Europe where the gas produced in its own country is focused on international trade, with the Vadeli Natural Gas Market, which will be launched in 2021. I believe we will continue to receive new news as a result of our search and drilling activities conducted by our Ministry. You know, today we're out of natural gas comforts. For those of you who have forgotten, there was only natural gas in our five provinces when the AK PARTI came to power, and today we have natural gas in 81 counties, 560 districts. In my speech on this bench again last year, Artvin had first met with natural gas, and I gave him the good news. During that time, Artvin became 500 new subscribers in Artvin, despite all the problems and obstacles the city has caused.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0187par0134	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0186par0135	Also this year, I would like to announce to my fellow citizens that in a month our Shavşat district will have natural gas, and in our central district of Artvin, 1,500 new subscribers will have natural gas. We work with our energy ministry, our EPDK, our private sector, to bring natural gas to the most remote parts of our country, to receive the blessing of our citizen. I'd like to express with pride that Turkey is the country where the highest quality of European fuel is sold by the standards that the EPDK made obligatory. One of the top countries in the world's largest LPG markets is Turkey. We now have an energy industry that trusts more in its country's potential, uses its domestic and renewable resources much better, and is not afraid to invest in Turkey's future. I would like to express my gratitude to the esteemed President, members and employees of the Energy Market Organization, along with our ministry, which has contributed to these developments. As I complete my words with these thoughts and feelings, I wish our budget to be good for our country, and I salute you again.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0188par0140	Mr. Ziver Özdemir... Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0189par0142	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your honorary committee and our fellow citizens following us on their screens. At the beginning of my speech, I ask all our citizens who died of the Covid-19 epidemic to have mercy on them, and to heal our patients who are on medication. In the third round of the 2021-Year Centre Management Budget Law Proposal, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group on the energy market regulatory budget. The mission of the EPDK is to arrange and supervise the introduction of energy to the consumer in a way that is adequate, quality, continuous, economic and environmentally compatible. In Turkey, 18 years of AK PARTI rule, there have been major improvements in energy, as in all areas; local and renewable resources have been brought into the economy, many projects and investments have been implemented and dependency has been reduced. In the 2000s, our electricity production from renewable sources was 34 billion kilowatts per year, while in 2019 it was 133 billion kilowatts per hour. Until ten years ago, Turkey has not been mentioned in the solar and wind power board, but with investments in this area, Turkey has settled into the 6th place in Europe, with renewable energy board power, and 13th place in the world. Turkey's investment in domestic coal, which plays an important role in energy production, has also been increased from 6,000 megawatts to 11,000 megawatts of local coal power. In 2002, we had only five provinces of natural gas, while today it was offered to 81 provinces and to use natural gas instead of 560 settlements. Batman, my own constituency, also reached 76 per cent of the city's central area and natural gas and supplies in the organised industrial region, and the number of subscribers reached 63,000. Our Kozluk and Beşiri districts also had natural gas supplies scheduled for the year 2021. Meanwhile, from Energy Minister to this particular day... because Batman is known as the province where oil meets in Turkey. I'd like to thank the Minister for his contribution so far. From now on, we expect Batman's support for both Batman's economy, his social life, and his education, especially in a positive sense -- companies such as PAO, TPIC, BOTAS. Turkey has increased search and drilling activity on land and sea as a result of the stable energy policies of the EC PARTI, and has done and done important work in the areas of sea power in the Mediterranean and Black Sea, with its leading seismic and drilling ships in its class. As the results of these studies, Mr. President, 405 billion cubic metres of natural gas reserves have been found, which, of course, will soon be offered to our nation's service -- in accordance with our 2023 goals -- in the service of our people. In addition, with Salt Lake and North Marmara Natural Gas Storage Projects, the need for natural gas for our citizens and industrialists is met without any interruption. All this work, of course, is done for the benefit of our people. Mr. President, when we look at all the speakers who spoke on the stand today from the day we started budget talks, there are expropriations, war budgets, debt budgets, interest budgets, sexist budgets, and so on and so forth. If those definitions were correct, this nation would not give the AK PARTY the authority and right to make the 19th budget. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As a hospital where the budgets are being set up, our nation gives the AK PARTY the 19th budget again, as well as to our people, and we are grateful and grateful for it, seeing that it has returned to them as an airport, road, bridge, school, and other services. I'd like to ask the critics... they have political parties that have won local governments; they call them workers; they hit the first worker with the first sledgehammer, they cut tens of thousands, thousands, hundreds of people out of their bread and put them on the doorstep.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0190par0152	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0189par0153	And when the elections arrive, will the citizens not ask how the words you use on these platforms have responded? Of course he does. Here we go, hopefully, under the leadership of the AK PARTY and our President. SINCE 2002, the EC PARTY has drawn up budgets and carried out politics, taking into account the public's expectations, demands, needs. By taking our nation into the center of life -- without forgetting the expectations of the EC PARTY -- we have always created budgets in light of realistic and rational data. Our nation has seen the work done for the establishment of social peace, brotherhood and peace, and has believed in the EC PARTY, and continues to rule alone in its belief. IN EVERY election from 2002 to today, the AK PARTY was placed in the first place with the whiteness of its forehead. While the budgets are being drawn up, thinking about every part of our people, without allowing any discrimination or sexism... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, one minute.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0191par0158	Bow, please.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0189par0159	Budgets are being drawn up to ensure the trust of our people. We know that every penny of the budget is necessary for the welfare, peace and spending of our people in this country from the east to the west, because the AK PARTY is the party of Turkey; it is not the party of a particular region, a particular ethnic identity, a particular gender. Everyone defines this budget with the words that are subconscious; some are war, some are interest, some are profiteers, some are sexist, some are sexist, some are men, others are subconscious in some way -- we see it as the budget of the people because we have this budget in our own hands. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish that the budget of 2021 would be a blessing, and I salute your delegation and our nation with respect and love.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0192par0163	Mr. Purity Polet... Here you go, Mr. Polat.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0193par0166	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group to discuss the nuclear regulatory budget. Once again, I wish our budget of 2021 was good for our country and our nation. SO far, the EC PARTY authorities have prepared very successful work, budgets, which have put the nation at its center. It is also a power that has demonstrated its success at the point of providing budget and financial discipline. During our rule, we have implemented countless projects from Turkey's defence industry to technological investments, satellite and communications systems to health infrastructure. As in all other areas of energy, we have tried to diversify Turkey's resources and resources. As it is known, energy is one of the most important markers to create our country's current deficit. In addition to the needs of the energy consumption of the technology age, the growing industrial sector, along with our production-oriented model, is increasing our energy deficit. In the face of all these needs, we're not just doing nuclear energy, we're diversifying our resources, we're trying to cover our country's deficits in every field. Despite all objections, persistent provocations, the natural gas drilling that we carried on in the Mediterranean, the Black Sea, and the first fruits of our country's future needs is the result of our actions. Both the removal of our natural resources and the active use of nuclear energy will bring Turkey to a much higher position in the future. Nuclear energy today is one of the main sources used as a clean, economic and reliable source of energy to meet the world's energy needs. 31 countries, including the world's leading countries, are currently operating 454 power plants, producing nuclear energy, and many countries are working to use that energy in the future. France provides 71.6 per cent of its electricity needs, 49.9 per cent of Belgium, 33.4 per cent of Switzerland, 20.1 per cent of the United States of America with nuclear energy. It must be remembered that we have valuable scientists working on nuclear energy. In this field, we act with the intention of developing our own technology at the ultimate point using their savings. At this point in Isparta, I'd like to remember the scientist, Professor Engin Arik, professor of Physics at the University of Boğaziçi, who we lost my hand to in a plane crash. We believe that with a 50-ton ore of thorium that Engin Arik had dreamed of, we can meet our country's one-year need for energy, and we strive to do so. The nuclear regulator, whose budget we're discussing today, is responsible for tracking the work done in our country, for licensed nuclear power plants to be built, for inspection and control of these facilities. We've also established our scientific and administrative differences in this business by setting up the Nuclear Organization first. For example, the Swiss nuclear regulatory agency was established from the first nuclear plant forty-two years after the first plant, and again the American nuclear regulatory commission 25 years after the first plant. I wish our organization success in the work of nuclear energy in 2021, and I wish our country the opportunity that the whole world has taken advantage of as soon as possible. Dear lawmakers, no matter what anyone says, there is a fact on everyone's conscience that, 18 years ago, we raised our country up again in every field, with the power we took from our ancient history, with the potential that we have at our core, we brought it back to a place called regional and internationally. We've achieved all this despite external artificial fluctuations, economic narrowings and trade wars in the world, pandemics, conflict that deepened the instability in our region. And most importantly, we've made huge breakthroughs that will lead to the future of Turkey's future, which will help us to be remembered for good, and we've planted seeds that will turn into much larger trees. As our president stated, we will continue to work day and night for our nation, tirelessly, tirelessly. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0194par0175	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0193par0176	We will not take a step back from our ideal of leaving 2053 and 2071, a strong Turkey that will easily bring their vision to life. With these thoughts, once again, I wish that our budget of 2021 would be a blessing for all our institutions, our country and our nation, and I salute our great House.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0194par0179	Mr. Nevzat Shatıroğlu... Here you go, Mr. Şatıroğlu.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0195par0182	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the Department of Energy and Natural Resources, the Department of Mine Research and Research. I salute the General Assembly and our precious citizens who are watching us on their screens. I'd like to tell you a long time about the contribution of the mining industry to a country's economy, the positive effects of employment, and the benefits we've gained by using every aspect of our lives, but I'd like to talk about the search activities in our country, which are the minimum stone of the mining industry, which is the point of mining activity and the inexhaustible. The MTA, which dates all the way back to 1935, is a valuable organization that has been carved into the mountain of our country with its ancient history of eighty-five years, with its name on its permanent development story. The MTA, the starting point in the investigation of the entire mine, is the most comprehensive research agency in our country's field. The MTA, the first and only scientific research institution in our country, directs the sector through its search and research activities, closely following its short, medium and long-term goals, providing technical support and counselling activities that the sector needs to build the technical infrastructure within the institution. MTA performs scientific research, research and analysis by using advanced technology in the field of earth science and mining by following the world's acceptable standards. The MTA has again been able to study from air, land, sea, above and below in detail as a result of recent moves. It's an organization that has the ability to study and search every square meter of our country through air, underwater search and seismic research, geochemistry studies and drilling at the same time. In 2017, the MTA General Directorate launched its geophysical work from the air with two planes and carried out its project, which is 100 times faster and 29 times cheaper, according to classical methods. In this scope, a total of 920,000 square kilometers in two years has been scanned and completed aerial scans of all Turkey. A total of 72 magnetic and radiometric data, including uranium, thorium, potassium, and very important sources, were produced. As a result of the work we've done in our fields, the experience has shown that Turkey has the ability to make geophysics out of air in other countries. We have the right pride of being one of seven or eight countries in the world who can do it with their own abilities. The MTA has drilled a total of 10.5 million metres, 7.4 million metres from its establishment to date, after 2002. In accordance with our ministry's national energy and mining policy, a historic record has been broken by drilling 4.4 million metres in the last four years alone, starting from the second half of 2016, to assess our energy and raw material supply security and underground resources. We sincerely congratulate all of our Ministry of Energy and all of our Energy ministers and institutional employees, especially our current Minister of Energy, who has given us the right pride. Mr. President, the MTA has uncovered our metallic and industrial mineral resources in 32 counties and energy raw materials in 29 counties, as a result of these activities in the last four years. Again, with the work done in these last four years, I can express valuable resources such as 3.85 billion tons of additional coal reserves, 20.5 billion tons of sodium sulfate -- which are very, very, very valuable sources -- 2.5 billion tons of potassium sulfate. There's a lot of resources, but time is limited, so I can't express it. With a rational, long-term plan and an environmental approach, with the leadership of the public, with the dynamic of the private sector, with our workers, with our engineers, with our technicians, it should be our most important duty to join the nation's economy. It is possible to reduce our country's imports of minerals, increase exports -- which we have exported at the latest $3.2 billion -- but only with the discovery of our domestic resources and the efficient production of these resources. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0196par0192	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0195par0193	In this sense, we have complete faith that MTA (MTA), which continues without delay in searching and research, will continue to work hard at RD, to be the pioneer of their professions. The 2021 budget -- which we cost our people -- the budget of our people, the budget of our nation -- is to wish well for our nation, our ministry, our institutions -- and the good news that our President, Recep Tayyip Erdogan Bey, in 2023, believes that our domestic natural gas revenues from the Black Sea will be important in the budget of our country three or four years later.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0197par0196	Just for the record, Mr. President, it's important that I apologize to you and the committee.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0198par0197	We can't promise anything until the speeches are finished.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0197par0198	I'm so sorry, I'll tell you where I am, Mr. President. The District of Ceylanpınar of Şanlıurfa province has called me. Two of our ministers are here. There are no lights, no sewers, no construction houses, no condos, no village, and no village roads.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0199par0200	Mr. Tanal, will you write it down?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0200par0201	Brother Mahmut, don't sabotage me.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0201par0202	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0202par0203	I beg you, for God's sake, let us take this service to this peasant. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Thank you. My respects.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0203par0207	Thank you. Mr. Fuat Koktaş, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0204par0210	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget for Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mineral Research Foundation, which is the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. Dear lawmakers, the need for energy and raw matter is increasing as the world's population growth, industrialisation, technological development and production power factors combine. Energy and natural resources are one of the most important factors that directly affect the welfare of society and the development of the country. With its developing economy, our country is at the top of the world's list of energy demands. On the other hand, given the producer and consumer regions, our geopolitical and geostrategic position is increasing our importance in the energy sector. It is vital to our country that we capture this process of rapid change in the world regarding the sector. In addition to supply security, our efforts towards energy, nuclear and, of course, resources continue effectively in order to ensure institutional and sectoral development within the framework of RD, innovation and efficiency, and reduce external dependence on energy. In this direction, the Institute of Atomic Energy, the National Bor Research Institute and the Research Institute of Rare Earth Elements, which operates in relation to our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, was established as the Turkish Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency, and was briefly described as,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, How will our institutions that have been converted into institutions benefit this country? The institutions with three separate labs, RDs, technical and expertise infrastructure, are more efficient and collectively able to conclude RD work faster. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, during the period of the EC PARTI governments, important supports and studies have been made during the efforts of energy ministers of all periods, including Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in alternative energy sources, in the mining sectors. Many of these works have been conducted in parallel with the developing economy of our country. Our exports have been increased by restructuring mining, primarily a boron mine. In the pandemic period, we have seen that the boron mine is not just a mine, but an underground wealth in many areas of our lives, from our everyday detergent to our everyday disinfectant. In order to reduce external dependency on industrial and raw matter, our RD efforts are continuing quickly to obtain rare soil elements and other critical elements from our local resources. Starting on August 20, 2020, our institutions, which have begun to operate under the TENMAK roof, are on their way with the targets they set in 2020. What will our institutions, which have turned into an institute, do from now on? 1) They will meet the need for our country's innovation and provide scientific environment for researchers. 2) By co-ordinating and cooperating with our public institutions and institutions, universities, industrial institutions, they will conduct and support RD activities. 3) As a result of R&D activities, the product is to be transformed into commercial value and to be used widely.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0205par0221	Here you go, Mr. Rootstone.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0204par0222	I hereby request that our Turkish Institute for Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research be good for our country, for our nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, when many of the speakers come out here, the opposition speakers in particular say that our subterranean wealth must be brought into the economy. They say that the cost of energy should be reduced. We must provide cheap energy to our industry, even to our dwellings. But on one hand, we see that our government, our ministers, our bureaucrats, wherever a gold mine is being researched, is being brutally criticised, wherever a renewable energy is being built, our mountains are being burned down. AK PARTY has been a party that has been sensitive to the environment, human health for years. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, leader of the EC PARTY, is an environmental leader and President of the United States.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0206par0228	Thank you, Mr. Rootstone.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0204par0229	That's why I'm saying that you would never sign anything that would harm the public's health.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0207par0230	Come to Antalya and we'll show you. Come, come to Antalya. And thou didst see Antalya, and made the mountains full of holes.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0204par0231	I wish you all the best in the 2021 budget, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0208par0233	Mr. Ahmet Çolakoğlu, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0209par0235	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of the Department of Energy and Natural Resources of Mining and Petroleum General Directorate for the Central Management Budget Proposal of 2021. I hereby salute the General Assembly, the Veterans Assembly, and the citizens who follow us. Mr. President, I thank you very much, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, our Minister, the Minister, the Minister, and all of our employees who have been working in our country's naval jurisdictions and in our country's naval jurisdictions, without preventing the activities of oil and natural gas, without any obstruction, standing on their feet in the eastern Mediterranean, as I speak. As a result of these efforts, we will take an important step to achieve our energy goals by the landing of 405 million cubic metres of natural gas, hopefully in the Port of Filyos in 2023. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, one of the most important goals of our ministry during 18 years of AK PARTI power is to expel external dependency in energy and mines from our country, and our Ministry, in this framework, is to bring our subterranean and subterranean resources into our economy with the application of national energy and mining policy. Our country has a good position for mining resources. Of the 90 minerals produced in the world, 80 are in our country. In the world's mining production, we are ranked 27, our goal is to rise to higher levels by supporting production. The growth of the economy, the rapid rotation of industrial and production wheels, will result in increased production of minerals and energy. In the mining industry, 140,000 citizens are also provided with direct and indirect employment opportunities for 2 million citizens. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the boron mine, have come to an important position in our country. Turkey, which has 73 per cent of the world's boron reserve, meets more than half of the world's debt requirements. With investments in Borbe mining, the boron mine has begun to be used in agriculture, cleaning, health, defence and so on. Finally, the production of lithium mines in the borschts began at the Eti Mining Company. This mine is used in many areas, but it will be used specifically to make batteries for the local electric car. Our country's natural stone resources also have a rich structure. We have 40 percent of the world's reserves in marble and other natural stones. We're number 3 in the world's marble exports. However, it also produces 43 per cent of our mining exports in marble. The coal mine also has an important place for our country's electrical energy and iron steel industry. The record of the republic's history has been broken by producing 102 million tonnes of coal annually during the AK PARTY rule. Our ministry's goal is to renew those records with support and incentives for businesses. Our other important mining activity, gold, is also really important; it reached 340 tonnes between 2001 and 2019, only 39 tonnes in 2019. Our country has 6,500 tons of gold potential. Hopefully, we'll bring this to the nation's economy. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we view mining activities in our country as either a lack of information or a misdemeanor activity, an effort to create obstacles to the development and development of our country. For example, cyanide and gold are not sought in the world or Turkey. It's a known fact in the world, and it's not actually used in the field. Only 3 per cent of cyanide in our country is used in decoding gold, while 97 per cent are used in other industries outside the mines. I'd like to stress that in particular. A deputy of ours just told us that there were mining activities without a CED report, that there were thermal plants, that there were HESEs. That's definitely false information. Mining businesses and energy businesses in our country cannot operate without permission from Agriculture, the Forest and the Environment. In addition, there are only three percent of mining activity in the forest areas in our country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0210par0244	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0209par0245	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have completed two years with the new structure of our General Directorate. During that time, the e-Maden system was installed, allowing the process to be done faster in the electronic environment. In addition, our General Directorate is meticulously and carefully doing its licensing and auditing duties, which will continue successfully in 2021, hopefully. I ask that these studies continue and that the budget of 2021 bring blessings to our General Directorate, our Ministry and our country, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0210par0247	Dear Metin Yavuz will speak. Here you go, Mr. Yavuz.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0211par0250	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. I salute our beloved nation, his Veteran Assembly. Dear MPs, on the anniversary of the traitorous attack on Vodafone Park, I curse once again all those who have caused it and those who support it, all our martyrs, with mercy. Today, with the arrival of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we celebrate the Victory Day of Azerbaijan, our garden country. First of all, the day of Ataturk's death will not be a holiday. I give thanks to Mr. Inspired Aliyev, who changed the date of Azerbaijan Victory Day. Long live the Turkish-Azerbaijan quarter! Dear lawmakers, our country is a popular country with 80 percent of the world's 90 mineral species. We are ranked 10th in the world's range of mines and 27th in terms of production. We've been working tirelessly for 18 years to bring our underground resources to the economy as they deserve. Your precious ready, energy is strategic for all countries of the world. For this reason, a significant part of the wars or struggles between states stems from the countries' desire to guarantee the need for energy forward. As a matter of fact, in 2017, under the leadership of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our country's national energy and mining policy was also redesigned and drawn a more useful framework. So, by searching for deep sea drilling in person, we joined our ships of seismic exploration of our country with the Fatih, Yavuz, and the Legal drilling and the Oruç Reis and Barbaros. We are determined to deliver the good news to the use of our beloved nation in 2023, led by President Erdogan. Thanks to the presidential government system, which is the double-headed system, the parliamentary system, we're moving in stronger and more confident steps with the swift decision we've made. Dear lawmakers, our national energy and mining policy, shaped on the basis of strong economy and national security, is crucial for Turkey to illuminate its path to the regional and global energy market. The way our foreign policy can be shaped in a powerful diplomatic axis is primarily by reducing energy dependency in energy and then by becoming a self-sustaining country to meet energy needs. Our policies, which will make Turkey a stronger actor on a regional and global scale, are guiding by the more efficient and efficient use of our resources. As Turkey, more than half of the world's need for production in the boron mine, which we have about 73 per cent of the world's reserves, while the natural stones that we have about 40 per cent of the world's reserves in our possession have also produced 43 per cent of our 2019 mining exports. In 2019, coal production, which meets 34 per cent of its electricity needs, has set a historic record of 101.6 million tonnes, public and private. One of our mines that says "plus" on the Cari deficit is gold. As a roofing company in the sector, the Department of Mining and Oil has a vision of building a secure future for natural resources. Our country is full of treasures, and we are starving on those treasures. All of us are obliged to uncover all these treasures, to find the resources of our wealth and prosperity. Despite this word from the friends of Ce-Ha-Pe, they will oppose our efforts on the path of national energy. We understand them. In the end, they will do what they know best, but the sensitivity of the matter is too important to be pulled down by dry opposition. Praise be to God, thanks to our matter and energy policy, it is our top priority to provide local resources for all the material metals our industry needs.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0212par0259	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0211par0260	Our domestic and national acceptance contains much more spirituality than the opposition's assessment. On this occasion, I would like to say once again that we must free the name of our republic's Banis Veteran Mustafa Kemal Ataturk from this slippery politics of opposition, which paints a picture that is incompatible with both its rhetoric and its actions, when the whole world needs stability and balance policy. The main success of the opposition is that it contradicts its own principles. Your efforts to do politics are futile by seeking refuge behind Ataturk. Despite you, we are determined to show our presence in all areas as Turkey under the leadership of our President, Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Not using Ataturk's name, but walking in the direction he pointed out, Turkey now has the power, will and resources to stand on its own feet under Recep Tayyip Erdogan. We're going to keep walking towards our goals without raising our eyes to anyone's rights, and no one's getting what's rightfully ours.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0212par0263	Complete.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0211par0264	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I bless our fellow miners who have lost their lives for our country's ore. I wish you the best of the 2021 budget for our country, and I salute you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0212par0267	Mr. Fatma Betul Sayan Kaya will speak. Your time has been five minutes, Mr. Sayan Kaya. Here you go, Mr. Sayan Kaya.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0213par0271	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies have made a pledge on behalf of the 2021 budget of our Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our esteemed deputies representing the will of the great Turkish nation. I wish our 2021 budget to be good for our country, for our nation. It is a long tradition of our politics to discuss all our material spiritual assets while Turkey's budget is being discussed. Yes, this budget is Turkey's budget. Our country's resources and resources are prepared together. Sensible, realistic, righteous criticisms, contributions have been greatly benefited. Our only goal is the growth of prosperity, peace, happiness, production. The EC PARTY government has implemented all its budgets to fully implement the social state principle. Our budgets, based on human-oriented social justice, aim to strengthen individual, family, and society. This budget is first prepared according to the principle of human beings and citizens. The only principle between the state and society that will end the conflict is justice. The key to the success of the AK PARTY, which builds its name and political philosophy on the concepts of justice, and on the concepts of standing up, is to hold fast to these two principles. Through this understanding, our country has been completely transformed, and public services have reached everyone without discrimination between citizens, regions, cities. Dear lawmakers, our policies as the EC PARTY have strengthened our women against any discrimination over the past 18 years. Despite all our precautions, I curse some women's dishonorable lack of dignity here, and I condemn those who attack our family values. Because family is the home, home, home, home of all human, Islamic, moral values. Turkey's greatest power is family. Thanks to the family, we're all safe and sound. The center of our social tissue is family. Wherever it comes from, the attacks on the family must be accepted in the honor of humanity. Our political concern, our cause, our only concern, is to raise human dignity. The essence of our management philosophy is that everyone feels safe, that the government is everyone's government. With that understanding, we are in the service of our people with this sense of responsibility. I am the state. Today, Turkey, which we took over from that outdated authoritarian understanding that used the power of the state to intimidate the citizen, has reached a democratic level of what its citizens call the state, my state. We should all be proud of it. These silent revolutions are because of policies that make a principle of the state and social state, which own its citizens, which reject discrimination. Yes, all citizens of Turkey are first class citizens. The guards of ancient Turkey can't understand that. Those who have no contact with the public, who have no ointment for any wounds of the people, will no doubt understand. Those who don't put stones on stone don't understand. Those who ignore the cries of the mothers of Diyarbakir, who are on watch to return to their children who have been kidnapped in the mountains, those who do not have the heart of those little girls will never understand. Dear lawmakers, we have melted the icebergs, solved the unresolved problems, integrated the state and nation. Of course, life brings new needs. In accordance with our nation's demands and expectations, we are determined to carry out the will to reform within the new needs that have arisen. We will also own Turkey's future. Everyone knows today that no one can bring Turkey to its knees anymore. Turkey is aware of its opportunities and opportunities with its future vision. Our success in fighting the plague is a work of 18 years of social policy. I'm proud to say it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0214par0279	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0213par0280	Mr. President, high-profile lawmakers, today the distance between the state and the nation has been lifted, the citizen has gained confidence in the state, the bright tomorrows are Turkey's. Just as long as we're one and together as a nation, as long as we don't oppose our own country with political accounts. With our president's dignity, with his glorious stance, with Turkey representing the law, not just for us, but for everyone with eyes on Turkey, the whole world knows what it means. Look, where did the social government come from? Let me figure out where the relationship between citizens and the state has come from: the financial resources for social aid and services in the period of the EC PARTY governments have increased 54 times since 2002, and the number of social welfare programmes has increased from 4 to 43. In the Human Development Index ranked by the United Nations Development Programme, our country has risen to the highest category of human development.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0214par0283	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0213par0284	And in the World Bank 2018 report, in the last 15 years, Turkey has been the most successful country in fighting poverty in the world. Again, health care was the head of every business. Each individual who was born in our country was covered by health insurance until the age of 18. Almost all of our country's population today is covered by health insurance. Our social security reform, led by our President, is one of the best practices in the world. It's not just the numbers, dear friends, it's the people, the society, the family, the individual, the state, to rule justice and justice at the same time, and to use the trust of the nation, the money, the money of the nation, the money of the nation in the name of the nation. That's exactly what we're doing. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The last sentence, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0215par0290	The last sentence...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0213par0291	Thank you, Mr. President, our Cabinet, and you, our esteemed MPs, who have raised hope in these difficult circumstances, who have kept our spirit of solidarity alive.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0215par0293	Mr. Osman Nuri Gülaçar. Here you go, Mr. Gülaçar.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0216par0296	Mr. President, I'm celebrating World Human Rights Day on December 10th to mark the 72nd anniversary of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. I also wish that this declaration, signed with the aim of taking a person into focus without any distinction, could one day benefit all mankind. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I will be speaking through our Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services. The family structures of societies are based on values or ideology.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0217par0299	Divorce has increased in the country, divorces.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0216par0300	By the modern age, there have been religions, traditions, and customs in almost every community in the world that defines the family. In his philosophical way, modernism's intervention in social life has not only been limited to one particular area, but has completely changed the way the society forms its structured family. Dear friends, this change in Western society has been exported as a prototype to all the communities of the world. So, what kind of family model remains in the hands of Western or Eastern societies? Is anyone particularly satisfied with this family model, the Western community? Is it a sustainable model? There's only one answer that leaves no room for discussion: no.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0218par0302	What is it?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0216par0303	The family structure, proposed by modern ideology, has completely collapsed. It may not be acceptable to Western and Western copycats when we claim it, but many Western thinkers first did the criticism of modernism through the family. In a model where individualism invades such a central place, the dissolution of the family and the isolation of the family spread like an infectious disease, it was inevitable that many of the people would experience psychological depressions. Turkey's society was unfortunately influenced by this family-type modeling of the West. The construction of our nation's family structure was largely based on the teachings and traditions of Islam. For the past two hundred years, we have begun to build our Tedricen family structure on the teachings of modernism. This change was first limited to an elite class, and then, with cultural tools and mass communication tools, a new family model was expanded to our most remote villages. Dear Regents, where we come from today, television programs, cinemas, and television shows don't just shape the family, unfortunately, and so does the family's transformation by hand. Unfortunately, many of the television programs and television shows in Turkey today are deceiving the most important theme when dealing with family matters. He's cheating on her. The woman who doesn't accept it is with another man. The kids are all messed up. Unofficial relationships, casual, casual life choices, or the normalization of different sexual tendencies by the hands of this sector are extremely conscious and planned steps; they should not be allowed. Women are only presented in these places as sexual objects or objects of violence, while men are presented as obsessive subjects who can't get rid of the penchant for lust. We have a responsibility to our society. The woman must be described to our new generations as a role model, with her noble and noble identity, her mother, her character, and her sacrifice, as the building blocks of the family.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0219par0307	You tore the family apart. The number of nuclear families is increasing day by day, thanks to you, the number of individuals living alone is increasing day by day. The more the economy breaks down, the more you ruin family integrity.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0220par0308	Here you go, Mr. Gülaçar.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0216par0309	The male should be described as a role model with the moral and honesty, honor and dignity required by the responsibility of fatherhood as the executor of our values. Dear friends, the family's downfall is synonymous with the collapse of society. The collapse of society is the destruction of the state. Thus, the foundation of the state's existence is possible with the family that has its values. The responsibility that will allow the family institution to live within its own values is, of course, in the state. Here, the responsibility for maintaining the family's structure within the values system falls with it, at the same time to civil society structures or local dynamics. Mr. President, while the esteemed lawmakers collect my words, in the Western community, families are largely in the process of dissolution in the vortex of individualization.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0221par0313	Hail, Mr. Gulaçar.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0216par0314	The family was first transformed into a core format, so elderly individuals from within the family were separated, left to nursing homes or solitary life. Now the main object of control mechanisms is children. In European countries -- state mechanisms -- in the form of an intervention that expands its borders day by day, children are separated from their parents, given to different parts of faith and culture. According to European norms, designing the family according to Western values will bring us nothing but disaster. We have our own value system, we have our own resources, we have a responsibility to rebuild the family through our own values.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0222par0315	There's no violence there?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0223par0316	You've broken it, you've broken it, you've broken it, and the number of families is growing every day because of you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0216par0317	The reconstruction of the family should not be with an unrooted analogy, nor should it be built through a simple anti-Western opposition. As a result of an education through the values system of our origins, our lifestyles must be determined, and we must rebuild our family relationships at this minimum. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, to greet you...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0224par0320	President, it's been eight minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0216par0321	I'm finishing, my last sentence.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0225par0322	The last sentence...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0216par0323	Mr. President, the value of the family is not a criticism for any of us, but a matter of self-criticism, especially for us politicians who have to spend a little time with their family. Let's be aware of the danger, take precautions before it's too late. Family is the only capital we have that can't be compensated for when we lose. My respects, my thanks.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0225par0326	Mr. Öznur Çýk, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0226par0328	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group on the budget of our Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services. I salute our High Council and our beloved nation. In today's talks, they said that the budget we saw in yesterday's talks -- specifically said by CHP and HDP -- was a waste, rant, sexist budget. This budget is the budget of our children; this budget is the budget of our women, our disabled, our elderly, our martyred relatives, our veterans; this budget is the budget of our family, the foundation of the Turkish community; the budget of the poor poor poor, orphans, the poor; the budget of our farmers, our workers, the budget of our employees; this budget is the local budget, this budget is the national budget. I hope our budget will be good for our country, for our nation. Dear friends, the 2nd article of our Constitution states that the state of the Republic of Turkey is a democratic, secular, social law state. • Filling in the concept of a social state has been given to us by the will of our President to introduce our nation to the understanding of a social state. The social state is the glue of the nation; it provides social balance, social peace and social peace. The way to build this is through social politics. With the vision of the social policies we've established, we've taken very important and very accurate steps within the framework of sustainable development goals. The essence of our vision of social politics is to keep people alive so that the government can live. In this vision, we act with an understanding of religion, language, race, color, men, women, disabled, old, immigrant, who embraces, embraces and embraces everyone who lives under the roof of this state. Our main objective is to address our social policies in a holistic manner, so one, social benefits; two, social services; three, social security are our basic feet. With the presidential government system, we've integrated the working life here. Dear friends, dear lawmakers, I'd like to make a little reminder that we're all available. When we looked at the social state before 2002, social welfare was just Fak-Fuk Fund, which was useless; social services had already brought rights; our disableds, our elderly, our homes, our nursing homes, our social security system had failed; and the former SEC Director knows this best. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear friends, I'd like to show you some report cards. You'll remember that. This is a report card for the troubled health institution, SEC report card. You remember that, don't you? This report card wouldn't have passed when you went to the state hospital. SEC patients only go to the SEC hospital, and you get kicked out of a public hospital. If you're retired or you're from BUG-KUR, then you can't be in or out of the hospital, or you can't be out of the hospital, or you can't be held hostage by yourself or your relatives or your funerals. And we had these green card cards, remember, and our green card holders can't go to the hospital, they can't go to the doctor, and even if they did, they couldn't take their medication, and unfortunately, their funerals would be in the middle.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0227par0334	He's still staying.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0226par0335	My dear brothers, on this occasion, in that hospital, in that report card, in this hospital, lives couldn't go on; there were queues, there were hostages, there were patients, there were funerals. We've buried it all in history. Instead, we built a revolutionary, very powerful Social Security institution and under the leadership of our President, we did what we were told. We combined the SEC, the BUG-KUR, the Retired Ark. In 2002, 30 per cent of our population was out of social security; today, all 83 million were covered in social security, and we brought public health insurance to our citizens, whom we just described as green cards, and today we deposit 8 million bonuses of our 10 million general health insurance holders. Praise be to God, a thousand times, we've done all this with social security reform. When we look at our welfare benefits, we're up to 81.2 billion this year, which is $1.6 billion in 2002.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0228par0337	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0226par0338	In 2002, it was only 1.3 per cent of the budget, while today, 6 per cent and social protection have increased to 542 billion today. We take care of our women with our social policies, our women who are the basis of our family. We've raised our women's participation in the labor force, their employment, their representation, their health, their schooling rates to record levels. We've reduced the mother and baby deaths to the lowest levels. We continue to fight zero tolerance against violence against women. No matter who comes in contact with harassment, rape, violence, we stand in his way. We don't turn into nightingales with berries like CHP and HDP, we don't bury our heads in the sand.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0229par0341	Except for Smurf Ünal, Smurf Ünal.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0226par0342	You'll shut up from there! You should know your place! You'll shut up!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0229par0343	His case is closed, he's been ruled untraceable, you didn't throw one away, one!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0226par0344	We take care of the disabled, the elderly. In 2006, we moved on to our practices under the name of home care allowance.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0230par0346	Mr. Çerik, finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0226par0347	We pay home care for our needy citizens, your mother, your father, our bedridden patients.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0231par0348	Are you giving it to me out of your pocket?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0232par0349	The employee in your house was killed, and you didn't throw a tweet.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0226par0350	We give $1,514 to our citizens, and we have a total of $10.8 billion.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0231par0351	Are you paying out of your pocket? It's paid for by the government.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0226par0352	You weren't here, you were going to make noise while you were taking care of women who were being molested, raped. I say to all the women of CHP: Know that you would make a noise there, not here. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] I wish you all the blessings of our 2021 budget, and my love to you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0233par0357	Look into the events of Karaman, don't be cheeky! You've got a lot of nerve!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0226par0359	This yelling isn't going to work.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0234par0360	Mr. Hamdi Flyer, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0235par0362	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the budget for 2021 of the very valuable law enforcement agency. I salute your high council with respect. It's actually one of the most important institutions in our business world, which you've never heard of, didn't know, didn't have publicity. I'm on the stand to share information on the function of our professional competence institution. Our Employment and Social Security Agency was established in 2006 as a unit of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security in order to establish a functional link between the business world's qualified labour market demands and the educational world. The main tasks of the Employment Agency are to prepare and implement national vocational standards and national competencies; to set up an international deafness, examinations and documentation system and direct institutions; to reflect national vocational standards on the curriculum of secondary and higher education schools in the Ministry of National Education; to create and implement Turkey's competencies framework, and to bring professional competence into working life. Our country, industry, production capacity, competitive prices, qualified labour force, young and dynamic population, geographical position, strong and healthy transport infrastructure, is the top of the world economy's most popular countries. Throughout our 18 years of power, we have to invest in qualified labour and education, as our President stated, and also to adapt to professional education, employment policies. The biggest problem in vocational education is that I have a degree. It's his understanding, but we all know that we have to change that understanding today. It's not just a certificate, it's a matter of a qualified employee who's prepared to be employed by training and experience in his field. The business world, of course, needs it. We believe that before we give a degree, we need to raise people who can qualify for a degree. In this sense, the vocational competence institution has taken on an important task. It's no longer based on target certification, it's based on the certificate of qualified people. We think it's important for our country to understand this logic. Professional and technical education is a very important issue to address with precision. Many studies have been conducted to help our qualified schoolchildren use their potentials, to address the shortage of qualified technical staff, one of the most important expectations in the business world. In 2009-2020, nearly 1 million 310 thousand people who had been successful in their professional qualifications were granted a certificate of professional competence and were given a qualified labour force in their working life. In order to qualify for working life, 326 co-operation protocols have been signed with the confederates, starting standard preparation in 953 jobs so far, in order to be essential to knitting and common vocational curriculums. Of these, 857 have been published in the Official Gazette, and 283 vocational standards have been updated. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers, the certificate of professional competence, is an international document confirming that a person knows his profession, performs it correctly and takes care of occupational health and safety measures. Today, a total of 143 professions, 47, are considered dangerous, and the certificate of vocational competence has been made a driver's license for our workforce. No additional financial burden has been brought to our employees and employers under the obligation of a certificate of professional competence. About 1 million people were provided with the amount of $890m worth of examinations and documentation support. Studies have found that documented workers in the manufacturing industry have suffered 25 per cent fewer jobs accidents than undocumented employees.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0236par0371	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0235par0372	As it turns out, Occupational Qualification Documents not only provide qualified employment, but by reducing business accidents, they also play a lifesaver for dangerous jobs. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are one of the most respected and successful institutions of our country, where the collective working culture is successfully implemented and is equal to the establishment of the public and social entities in order to meet the expectations of our working life. I hereby salute your grand delegation, wishing our budget of 2021 to be good for our country, for our nation, for our ministry.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0237par0376	Dear Private...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0238par0379	Mr. President, thank you. There are parts of the talk that we need to respond to, the parts that we need to answer to. I'll answer the part about our group from here, in your proper apartment and in the duration, but in the statements of Malatya MP Çalık (a.k. a.k. a.k.a.) there are all women's MPs from the People's Party of the Republic. Of course, a friend of ours, who has the right to speak to all our friends separately, will want to use the right of direct abuse according to the Civil Code 69. Let me put it this way. Our first statement is that today the phone is raining from Soma (Soma) and from Ermenek (Ermenek). At this moment, our coven is being followed by victims of mines far more carefully than thought.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0239par0383	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0238par0384	We did a legislature study, and Özlem Hanım had significant contributions in the name of power. We've already been on top of the issue as well as all other political parties, but it hasn't been resolved because it's limited to a mine and not just Soma. Furthermore, the problem of Warning Mining in Soma, again among the words of the ruling party, has not been resolved. When the walking workers were interrupted, Mr. Süleyman Noble came to him for days -- and the workers waited for him -- he promised me that I would solve it by January 15th. There is a common union in Ermenek and Soma. Because from the yellow union, the miners had to do it. Every time... so we make the law here, the yellow union says: I've signed with the employer, I don't need to. The workers of Ermenek were also organized.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0239par0386	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0238par0387	Mr. President, they said to the workers at Ermenek, "We will pay your salary, don't walk." They laid down wages, and then fired 30 union workers -- 30 members of the union -- 30; 29 or 31 or 30 union workers. Today's appeal is rebellion against him. They're facing the gendarmes again... and the scream must be heard, Mr. Secretary. In your country, workers and miners are being laid off because they're unionists, and you have to take care of it. Second issue: Of course, unfortunately, I don't want to talk about something that would put a congressman in this much trouble, but -- because the budget is looking at all voters, watching the voters -- they followed Mr. Metin Bulut. Mr. Metin Bulut says: "$7 is the payment that is missing from the payment. I know that a lot of money has been paid. This $7 is our forgotten state. He says, "Engin Altay" is critical of Engin Altay. Look, you know what happened in the meantime?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0239par0390	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0238par0391	Look, what happened in the meantime, Metin Bey? In the meantime, the person who said that he had taken the 7 TL, said, "Give me my name, and let them throw it away." I'm an ambulance driver, Mustafa Gür, who works at 112. I got a $9 Covid payment, which I don't normally get, which is given in Covid. Because I've been hanging out on the ceiling. When the tax was taxed, he went to bed 7.24. He sent his document, and said, "Give my phone to the deputy." He said, "Tell my name there." He said, "If they throw it away, I struggle with death all day, I get $7.24 more." I'll give you your phone, I'll give you the papers. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Again, Mr. Cloud thinks it's happening here; he said a lot of things, a lot of things, our state, our nation... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0240par0396	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0238par0397	We got a message, we said, "Turn back." Is it really from Elazýg? What's his name? Nihat Bey, Nihat Bey of Elazığ.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0241par0398	He's from the mining district.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0238par0399	He's from the mining district. Mr. Deputy, at Elaziğ MP's office, you shut down the copper mine factory, destroyed a county. Why didn't you have a red line? How is it that you do not defend the rights of the Elzizites, but talk about other things? And he says, "Let him call me, and I'll tell him what I've been through." It is not for him to defend me, nor for him to receive the right that is given to him. Mr. President, from the speeches of Mr. Öznur Çalık, I leave the bullying of the National Movement Party to my esteemed colleagues. In the government before them, here, the late Minister of Health, Osman Durmis...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0242par0401	Tell me about the director general of the USSR.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0238par0402	Of course, there is a coalition government. We're out of the House then.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0243par0404	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0238par0405	There's more to it, there's more to it. The application of the green card -- which begins with Demirel -- is one of the major milestones in progress to today's point. Oh, it's a disgrace; the lady told me and the gentleman just said it. Brother, now, if you're running well -- let's say for a moment that you're running well -- are you applauding the head of the SGK Foundation, Recep Erdogan? If you hold the SEC General Manager responsible, today's work was done by Recep Tayyip Erdogan. You won't say, take out the president of the SGK, make him President.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0244par0407	Free, huh, that's right.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0238par0408	However, in the days of Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu, the deficit is one-fiftyth of the deficit given today. You created Turkey's largest black hole, it's pouring through that black hole, and you did it even though the CHP said, "If you finance it from the premiums, it's open." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0245par0411	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0238par0412	What should we do? CHP oratories say it should be taxed, ideally, but at least if you say mixed model, 50-50, it won't be open today. If you get the taxes, you get the billion dollars from the poor minimum wage, you don't try to finance this system by trying to finance it, and you don't cause a problem because of the broke-down trade, and you don't give the poor a pardon to those in debt. Have some compassion, have some compassion! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, here's my final word, on behalf of the group.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0246par0415	Speak, speak.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0247par0416	Yeah. I don't think there's a deadline, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0238par0417	I left here on the day of sexual harassment charges, while Akbasoglu was in office, Akbasoglu listened without saying anything; I will not repeat the report here, not over time.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0248par0419	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0238par0420	Zero compromises, we don't look anyone in the eye. We curse anyone. We told the perpetrator and the victim's identity not to be solved until they were blind. The President-General told me, and -- very clearly -- a lot of lies were made up, and the victim's lawyer made a written statement. İstanbul Governor Canan Kaftancıoğlu called as soon as he heard, and I'm going to have him thrown out of the organization now -- but you have to look for your rights in the DA's office. Such an influence, such a compromise, such as this, with the victim, and the villain across the street, twisting, twisting, lying, and shamelessly trying to slander the Republican People's Party, I also condemn, condemn, condemn!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0249par0422	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0248par0423	Mr. Rich...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0249par0424	Mr. President, to be honest, I thought you were going to give me your final promise because Miss Coral is probably going to tell us. So I'm going to ask Ms. Meral again after I've spoken to her, and I'd like to point out.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0248par0425	It's possible.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0249par0426	Yeah...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0250par0427	I think I'll go first, all of you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0251par0428	That's what he said. You're right.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0249par0429	It'll be better together, Mr. President. I'll tell you in a group, let's not do anything again.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0252par0430	Here you go, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0253par0431	But if you're surprised...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0249par0432	No, I wouldn't be surprised. It's not possible without you telling me, so... To us, I guess.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0253par0433	It's not possible?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0249par0434	No, there's no chance, zero chance of a million.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0253par0435	Well, I'll put it on the agenda right away, okay.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0254par0436	I guess you never picked on our band.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0249par0437	So there's zero chance.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0255par0438	Here you go, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0256par0440	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I've actually made a commitment to point out something about this environment, but I'll tell Mr. Rich not to have a heart, but I'll tell him something. Mr. Congressman Fuat Koktaş used a concept called "We are the most naturalist party." I wanted to give you a few examples of how naturalistic they are, environmentalists. Now, for once, there's a real score in this country; there's a big score in energy and a big score coming out of each citizen's pocket. What is it? The organization, which is the center of the heist, has become the center of the robbery. The incentives for energy companies are transferred from here. Companies such as HES, RES, JES, were given $26 billion last year, and $25 billion in 2018. 30 billion will be transferred this year.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0257par0445	Here you go, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0256par0446	81 billion incentives in just three years, Mr. President. For what? For cheap electricity or to support the citizen? No, they only have one problem, one problem, to make the ally richer. Look, 20 companies took advantage of these incentives in 2011, and now this number is 818. Four hundred and sixty-five of them are HES. 21 distribution companies, such as HES, JES, RES, and 1,722 production facilities, and hundreds of mining companies are being supplied. Yes, there's just been a law passed here, and unfortunately, a legal cover for theft has been fabricated. Yeah, what is it really about power making HES into these tiny streams? What is it about history, nature, environment, culture? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I will, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0257par0449	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0256par0450	We've been asking from this podium, and we're still asking today. So I made a promise to record that the largest environmentalist party was guilty of such crimes and crimes against the environment. And my last word to Mr. Çalık: By Allah, we will not be silent in the face of any incident; wherever there is injustice, wherever there is lawlessness, wherever there is a breach there is HDP, HDP always speaks. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0258par0453	You didn't say yes on the commission. You didn't take part in the commission and say yes.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0259par0454	We answer to women, and to people, and to women, and We do not answer to you. You'll be the last to answer.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0258par0455	You didn't go to the commission and say yes. You didn't come, you didn't even join the commission.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0259par0456	You'll be the last to answer.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0260par0457	We're gonna be in your scenarios?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0261par0458	Mr. Rich...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0262par0460	Mr. President, it's not a script. Now, of course, our conversations are in continuity.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0263par0462	We're talking about paperwork.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0264par0463	We're gonna be in your scenarios?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0262par0464	By the way, you know, there's been a commission set up on this issue, about this particular rape issue; under this commission, under the Karma Commission, to evaluate the incident -- let's say, let's think of it as a kind of pre-trial phase. You may not know it because you did not attend, and you also did not express your opinion by coming to the commission, and you did not vote yes. This is the commission...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0263par0465	They didn't!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0264par0466	Our friends have joined.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0262par0467	You didn't vote yes. No, they didn't vote. In the matter of the commission, you know, the woman who was the victim -- I read the whole thing again, and it's really very sad -- she gives a public name on the commission, giving the names of your own MPs. You can have this.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0264par0470	The secret decision is being disclosed to you!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0265par0471	We can't, it's a confidentiality order. We didn't get it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0266par0472	Listen!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0264par0473	We didn't get it... the Selvi is taking it!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0267par0474	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0268par0475	Not at all. When I bought this, I asked all my friends on that commission, and I got it from our own commissioner...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0264par0476	We didn't get it. You're not a member of that commission.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0268par0477	Then you're not following, this report has been distributed to all members of the Commission.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0264par0478	You're not a member.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0268par0479	I'll tell you again, Ms. Coral, it's been distributed to the members of the commission, take it from your friends! I say it's been disbanded. What's said there is...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0264par0481	You're not a member. A News isn't a member, you're not a member.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0268par0482	Mr. President, if I may, I'll read it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0269par0484	The commissioner says it hasn't been moved.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0268par0485	And if it's not, I'll give it to you. When I'm done, I'll give it to you, but it's been distributed.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0269par0486	Here's the commissioner, he says it hasn't been moved. He says, "You're the one who's been dumped."
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0270par0487	Why are you giving it to me?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0268par0488	The victim lady, mentioned, says long, I'll just say it as a name: I went to Ebrü Günay and Pero Dundar, and I told your deputies about the situation. And look, after I explained the situation, this is her statement, okay? After all he's told, he says: "If it's humanity, if it's Kurd, we're Kurds." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Would you mind, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0271par0491	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0272par0492	Why are you here exposing the testimony?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0268par0493	Is that how you plead? It's not classified, it's not classified, Congressman, it's public. We're Kurds, too, so no matter where you go after you're not human, he says. My dear friends, now, the matter here... what was just said? No, he says he's a victim, he's a victim. I went to them, and I went to the MPs, and they didn't care for me at all. If you set foot here again, we'll break your leg, break your legs. He says it's called long.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0273par0497	These are the phrases you memorized. That didn't happen.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0268par0498	Now, I'm going to come from here to here. In fact, everyone knows everything. And I don't understand why you're so passionately defending it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0274par0499	We're not defending anything!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0273par0500	You create perception, perception!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0268par0501	You're arguing, that's exactly what your reaction is.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0274par0502	You're attacking our party through a victim woman, not a woman.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0268par0503	There are other names; he says he informed the president of the Suryani Society here.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0275par0505	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0268par0506	Oh, you're not really listening...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0276par0508	You create perception, perception.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0275par0509	Perception is your business.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0268par0510	That's your job. Can you open it, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0277par0512	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0268par0513	That's your job, we're telling the truth. I won't say listen, but allow me.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0278par0514	You're bringing up an exported person again!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0279par0515	Yeah, that's enough! That's enough, let him tell me! For God's sake!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0268par0516	Let the people on the screens listen.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0278par0517	Do we have to listen?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0268par0518	Please leave, don't listen or don't listen, I beg you!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0280par0519	That's enough! Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0268par0520	Don't listen, I'm not saying anything, but let people listen. So the statement of the victim and the statement of the victim is important. Here, the statement of the victim states that he is a victim; take this seriously, please take this to the castle, ask your MPs. I'm the one who's...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0281par0521	Yeah, we drove him away, we drove him away. What are you arguing about?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0282par0522	Mr. President, if you'd care to step in, we'd like to hear it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0268par0523	Look, you're having trouble understanding because you're not really listening.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0281par0524	You're always doing politics.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0268par0525	The MPs I'm calling my name are not the perpetrators, I'm calling them the names of your female lawmakers the victim was dealing with, not the perpetrators. Oh, the perpetrators were already among you when you told us about this, when you attacked us, but when it came to public opinion, yes, you did.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0281par0528	I wish you'd keep your distance.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0283par0529	Here, complete it, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0268par0530	Yes, now, Mr. President, I have a few more things to say. Now, while our Elazig MP was speaking, I went to Mr. Private, but I want to express it here. Look, there's screaming here. A woman MP -- I won't say her name, but they know, Mr. President knows -- she's screaming, she's screaming; you can't speak the name of Ataturk -- what is this place, brother?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0284par0532	You're not taking it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0268par0533	Isn't this the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? What does it say under his statement? ▪Kemal Ataturk.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0284par0534	You didn't take the name of Ataturk. You didn't mention the name of the MP.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0285par0535	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0284par0536	Look at the report, look at the report!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0286par0537	Keep your manners, keep your manners!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0287par0538	Yeah, that's what he says.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0284par0540	Did he mention the name of Ataturk? Look at the report!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0287par0541	You can't talk about Ataturk! You can't! You can't tell our MP! Now, let's go...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0284par0543	A lie in your soul!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0287par0544	Now, my dear friends, with Free Bey... I say in this House, on television, we need to underline what we do well.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0288par0546	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0287par0547	I thank Mr. Ozlem here too, because he said, "Miss Ozlem, let's settle this matter, and I'll thank you from the stand." That's exactly what happened. Look, this General Assembly should be united in what we do well, in what we do together, and in this woman's issue, we should be able to call evil and evil and good together without screaming. Now, about the miners, I'd like to personally thank our Energy Minister. We've worked here, we've struggled, but the Department of Energy owns the business. Our Department of Energy has taken this extraordinaryly and has already solved the issue of our miners, our 301 miners in Soma. But there were partial problems, and he has solved them, Mr. Secretary. Now, our other miners -- you know, we spoke to Erkan Chief Bey on the phone at the time, and we spoke to him on the phone about it, and our fellow miners came and visited us in the House. In fact, our Governor Manisa called me... Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0289par0551	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0287par0552	I care about it, so it's a matter of public interest. The governor of Manisa called and said, "They want to come to you in my dealings with the miners. I said, OK. I organized them, they came; I listened to our fellow miners themselves. Now, for once, the public needs to know that none of the debts of our miners -- the ones we're talking about -- the ones that are doing this action -- are government loans. All of these brothers are in debt from the private sector, and they've been fired from their jobs in the redevance way they've always been called, but they haven't been able to get what they're owed. Of course, it's up to us here, as a result, that we want to come up with a solution in our brothers' business with the private sector -- let's say -- by taking responsibility beyond our responsibilities. We've discussed this with our Minister, and we've talked about it very quickly -- how shall we say -- without raising the burden of our ministry... because there are not only one redevansed company in Turkey, 37 other redevans...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0290par0556	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0287par0557	There's a manor business. So we can't expect the entire private sector to pay off our Ministry, so please, let's not be unfair to our Ministry, and we need to see this: look, my dear friends, there's something in that area that's itching. So they're constantly told that the citizens don't know, I'm a poor working man; so look there, they don't give money, they don't give money, they don't give money to people in Soma. Soma gave it to him, and he didn't give it to you. I also invited all the relevant unions, Mr. Ozgur, and spoke to them.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0291par0558	You're guilty of not checking.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0287par0559	Now, in the end, our Minister is here; we want, we all want, all of us, all of us -- without raising the burden of our Ministry on this matter, in any way, without allowing it to be scratched or scratched by some terrorist organization, a reasonable, logical solution is everyone's wish, but it has to be known that this is not a debt of the state. In fact, the government is here looking for a formula for our collectors regarding this purchase, where the source of the problem is... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0292par0562	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0287par0563	I'll tell you this, Mr. Ozgur: When this is done, I'll thank the whole group, and I'll thank everyone at the General Assembly. Now, of course, there's this little statement that you're making about our brothers, and I'm seeing abuse there, so I can't understand it, and I also see that there's a malevolent, opposite media that makes people regret using the word "I can't understand it." And finally, right now, I want to tell you about... Metin Bey, of course, I think he has a minute's voice. After all, I think we should give Metin Bey a moment's notice. The last thing I'm going to say about the SGK is, of course, a thank-you to our Minister, our Minister himself, our ministers who have worked on this matter so far, our Labour Ministers, now united under one roof, Mr. Zahra Emerald, but when we go to the rear, to our Minister of Health, all of it. There's been a huge transformation in Turkey's healthcare system, and we have to accept that.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0293par0568	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0287par0569	So in this pandemic process, everyone admits that this system has a huge role in the performance that the Ministry of Health has demonstrated, and of course all health workers have a great deal of effort. Now, as we talk about it here, something strange comes out, thank him, thank him, but, you know, the fact that the system has changed actually, the changing system has brought us to this important and useful, successful point. I don't think it's fair to reduce them to this country. Of course, after that, one last thing, about what happened in Maltepe, I have to say, Mr. Ozgur, you expressed your voice very loudly. Now, the problem with Maltepe is that more than one woman has a complaint, just like this one... and I'm going to say this time, you couldn't do what the HDP group did. After all, as soon as it comes out...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0294par0571	We've done it. We've done it a lot.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0287par0572	No, the moment it happened, I said everything I said before.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0294par0573	We did it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0287par0574	The curve was curved, true, but from the moment it came to public, the HDP Group strongly rejected it and did the right thing, so it had to be done.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0295par0576	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0296par0577	You do the right thing.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0297par0578	You do the right thing.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0298par0579	And I find these unnecessary screams a little strange, so you want us to come together and not say two good things. The CHP should have done the same. Especially when we think that the president of Istanbul is a woman, who's inclined to protect them -- who's perceived to be, I don't know what his intentions are, but that's what he's doing to the public -- his attitude, his attitude, his presence -- what advice did he give the people next to him, what advice we're looking at, what picture we're looking at.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0299par0580	We exported them all.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0298par0581	So I'm thinking that the position, the attitude here, would have to be very clear to the public without strings attached. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0299par0583	Mr. President, I'm going to say something for a minute without a tease, I've been asked permission from Ms. Coral.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0300par0584	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0299par0586	Mr. President, I'll leave this matter to the head of Istanbul and Sera Haným, who will speak for all the abused MPs. The only thing about the mine is that we are Parliaments, friends, and we are bound by the Constitution, and the Constitution says that men belong to people, people belong to people. What's the work done today? There is a job called Redevans. He is walking behind the Constitution. Look, this car belongs to everyone, you rent it, you drive it, you rent it, then you get the car. You give him a coal mine, he goes into the liver of the mine, he kicks his ass, he picks up 60 percent of the most efficient, and now it's impossible for you to run it, or it's the whole mine that we all have, and it's all running out, and it's got different names. If we're sincere, we'll know that the mines are the government. Giving a coal mine to someone is a constitutional right to abandon.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0301par0589	He won't give me the mine, Mr. Free.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0302par0590	He's not bidding. He's bidding, Mr. Ozgur! You're talking about what you don't know.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0303par0591	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0304par0592	If there's a victimization here, for one thing, there's a huge responsibility here -- sub-employee, senior employer -- it's our duty to pay off this miner without saying a word. You gave the mine that you shouldn't have, with a tender, with redevance, with service; you've already transferred the national resource unofficially, and then you're leaving, and then the company has fled, and we won't pay for it. We'll pay for it, brother, we'll have to pay for it, the legal arrangement is the honor of this House. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0305par0595	Then do it, get the legal arrangement, if that's what you have! You're speaking against the law.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0306par0596	Mr. Free, there is no such thing.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0307par0597	Mr. Danış Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0308par0599	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Rich has learned his lesson...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0309par0601	We work all the time.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0308par0602	But he got it wrong, he got it wrong, he messed it up again.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0309par0603	Not at all.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0308par0604	I'll tell you one.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0309par0605	Yes, tell me, and I'll answer.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0308par0606	Mr. President, you left no constitution in this country, no law, and now it's time for the Civil Code. And I'm a member of the Constitutional Commission -- and I'm a member of the Civil Code -- and I'm going to ask our commissioner in a moment what kind of way the Karma Commission and the Subcommittee are doing, and I'm going to ask our following commissioner, and he's going to tell it, and I'm going to tell it with the top of the lines. Mr. President, I'm going to have to read Article 132 of the Civil Code the third joke: this commission will examine all the papers and if necessary, listen to that MP, the vice president or the minister; the witness cannot listen.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0310par0609	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0308par0610	Now, what did they do to bypass that judgment? They can't listen to a witness, they can't listen to a witness, they can only listen to the suspect, the commission. Sir, she asked for it herself, so we listened to it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0311par0611	That's not what happened.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0312par0612	Where's the document, the document? What document?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0308par0613	That's not what happened, it's our commissioner. That's one. Second: neither the Constitutional Commission nor the Karma Commission is a judiciary. Should this immunity be lifted or not be lifted? He assesses it, and no other judgment or trial can be carried out. Why am I saying this? I was really uncomfortable just now. The names of our two MPs, our beloved party spokesman Ebrü Günay and Mardin MP Pero Dundar.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0313par0615	Lies!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0314par0616	What kind of lie is that? What a lie!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0308par0617	Lies! Lies! That's a big lie! They're not protecting her, they're not protecting her. They set up a scenario on this event; to discredit HDP (HDP). But there's no bread for you, there's no bread for you!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0314par0619	That's your script.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0308par0620	Mr. President, do you know what we said in the commission from beginning to end? We said that the woman's statement is fundamental, if she has a petition, please remove her immunity and let the prosecution be judged whatever it is.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0315par0621	Are they lying? Our women are lying, and your women are telling the truth?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0308par0622	This request has been denied. She's been brought in, taken away, given photos, all over the papers, front page news. Who prepared it all, who's in the kitchen? There's the AKP. And now he's saying that I have to tell him because there's a serious accusation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0316par0625	Complete, Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0308par0626	He says, "You didn't say yes. You didn't do well with the reports."
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0317par0627	On the commission...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0308par0628	We said yes in the Subcommittee.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0318par0629	You've got it well memorized.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0308par0630	In the second commission, 17 of our friends -- against our members of the CDC -- were taken into custody, each of our three members was in the courthouse, and they gave an excuse to postpone it, and it was not accepted and we said yes in the General Assembly. Don't let them accuse us of such a lie.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0319par0631	What did he say in the commission, the Commission?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0308par0632	The other, Mr. President, is very important: now, in the Commission, we defend the most radical, the most radical. The woman's statement is essential. Let them come, let them be judged, and immunity be lifted. Should we say kill him? We said, "Restraint to be touched." We exported it from our party, and its guilt has not been proven, neither Tuma Steel, nor Mensur Light. ▪ They are guilty. You cannot make a statement.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0319par0633	Well, you did it wrong.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0320par0634	Then why did you throw it away? Well, you shouldn't have.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0321par0635	We're referring to the statement, the statement.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0322par0636	That's what the judge says.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0323par0638	Complete, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0322par0639	I'm finishing.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0324par0640	Don't throw it away, don't throw it away.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0322par0641	Now, unfortunately, I'm sorry to say, here a woman, a fellow, is being manipulated, used by her own dirty policies.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0325par0642	Do you regret it?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0322par0643	And most importantly, this Civil Charter, this Civil Charter, says that the investigation is classified. I want to tell our member of the Commission, we haven't been reported, New Dawn made the headlines. If the Commissioner gave it to him, let him confess. We don't have any -- I'm a member of the Constitutional Commission -- I don't have a report.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0326par0644	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0322par0645	But the headline of the New Dawn and the other Sabah newspaper, the headline of the 8 columns, was given to discredit HDP. My final request, Züleyha Gülim, has followed him from head to toe, asking him to tell me why he wasn't given and how he wasn't given. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0327par0649	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0328par0650	Mr. President, I have a request.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0329par0651	Mr. President, if there's no further request...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0328par0652	I have a voice request, but...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0329par0653	Sera Haným, for bullying all the women's MPs...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0330par0654	If you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0329par0655	Of course I did, or I did.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0330par0656	Mr. Rich...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0331par0657	I'm a...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0332par0658	Let the commissioner tell us.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0333par0659	Mr. President, if you're going to make a promise to the Commissioner friend, please let the Commissioner say it, and I'll give you my answer. If you don't promise, I will.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0332par0660	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0334par0661	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0332par0662	Zuleyha Gülim, our Commissioner...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0334par0663	Just a moment, Mr. Beştaş. I'm going to give my word to the councillors named. Mr. Agar...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0335par0667	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, our entire nation knows that it's been three generations, not just Tolga Agar, but the Handy Agar family has done its duty, whatever it takes for the nation. As a member of such a family, this baseless, unsubstantiated accusation against me has upset me greatly. Mr. President, you don't know me, and when I was elected two years ago, I swore I'd work for the Hand. I didn't use my father's name, threw myself in front of any cameras, worked for no country, just my country, and you know I'm doing my best to heal the wounds of my earthquake-ridden hometown. Especially since you're the one who's always talking about right, law, justice, without my president's efforts to investigate me like this...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0334par0670	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0336par0671	There's been a misunderstanding, we meant Metin Bulut.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0335par0672	Sir, not you...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0337par0673	No, no, not you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0336par0674	It has nothing to do with you, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0335par0675	Not to you, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0336par0676	No, you don't know me.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0335par0677	Sir, it's not for you, it's for the back...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0336par0678	Okay.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0338par0679	Dear Private...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0335par0680	Mr. President, may I finish?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0338par0681	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0335par0682	Mr. President, you don't know me. I swore to work for the Hand myself, and I just mentioned it. And indeed, it grieves me that you should speak to me of a slander like this, when you speak of truth and justice, without having asked me about it. And I'm really sorry for taking up the time of the entire House on this empty matter, and I'm here to inform you of my systems. I salute you all with respect and love, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0339par0686	Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0340par0688	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Free Special said something about us taking my name several times and shutting down the mining plant. First of all, I wanted him to call himself what I called him, and I said to him in all of my speeches, Mr. Beştaş, Mr. President-General. Of course, he just said, "Metin Cloud, Metin Bulut. There is a beautiful saying: ▪ It is measured in respect, not in respect of a person's true value. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The second thing is, it's about shutting down the mining plant, which is exactly what I'm talking about. One, the Mine Copper Company was not closed, it was open; it was privatized, it wasn't privatized in our time, it was done in '96.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0341par0693	Complete, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0340par0694	I was just talking about this: the CHP has the potential to accuse the other person without confirming any news that has come to it, without knowing the other person, without knowing if it's true or not. It wasn't my claim on the other one, but I read the report on Mr. Engin Altay, just like this: I mean, an additional performance fee for an ambulance driver... I mean, besides the performance fee, I read his statement. I offer my respect and conversation.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0342par0697	Mr. President, let's just drop this right now, but it's not...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0343par0698	Mr. Special, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Gülim...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0342par0699	Yeah, yeah...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0344par0700	I'm going to say a sentence to Mr. Agha before I forget to write it down. Mr. Agar is here, I never...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0343par0701	Here you go, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0344par0703	I've read all the relevant news, I've read all the relevant information. What I'm saying is, if there's a claim, let it be investigated, let the matter come out. We exported it, Mr. President, from domestic violence and allegations. I told you that in response. Besides, no one can have anything to do with his child or his family or himself. If there's a claim, it's to be investigated, it's to be done. God rest his soul. I didn't mean anything by it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0343par0704	Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0345par0707	Thank you very much. I'll make it quick. Mr. Metin Bulut. I've called him Mr. Cloud twice. I've called him Metin Cloud three times. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr., I'm completing my lack of respect for this matter. Second: If there is a difficulty in expressing himself, we will share with you both the message and the phone that your constituent sent about the matter, but the other issue, indeed, is that he didn't know, and so on... there was a performance payment in Turkey before Covid. We'd like to make sure there's no performance on the payroll; it doesn't reflect on retirement. The additional performance payment means ▪ Payment for Covid. Our bet is that the ambulance driver Covid received only $7 as payment, and you came out and said: "In fact, he's got a lot of money, he's got 7 lira short, our government's got him in bed." And the ambulance driver said: "Give me my name, and they'll throw it away; I swear to God they'll throw it away; 7 lira, and 7 lira."
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0346par0711	Thank you. Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0347par0714	Mr. President, the speaker will speak later, and on top of that, Mr. Ali Özkaya has already arrived, and he will finish it himself. The point here, Mr. President, is that I can't stand these things that make each other worthless. I don't want to make anyone worthless. Look, I take depositions seriously. Is it serious that bothers you? Everything I've been told, everything I've been asked, especially as a lawyer, I need to confirm. If you call it studying, I find it strange, I find it funny. So we're elementary school kids here? You studied, you didn't study. What kind of expression is that? Let's get serious first. We're talking about a woman's life, and other people have families, so it's a serious matter, just like in Tolga Agar. When you spoke, I had not heard the name of Tolga Bey, my friends said he spoke of Tolga Agha. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, please.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0346par0717	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0347par0718	You say you read, you pronounce people's names like they're criminals. Is it the same thing? I mean, how could you say something like that to a congressman who came to the House with a fezleke? Everyone's got lives, dignity. That's why I say "serious" before the end. Now, about that, you're talking about the Civil Code 132, where he can't listen to the witness, says the witness. Is this the woman we're talking about? I'm asking you, is he a witness? You don't know the difference between the witness and the victim.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0348par0720	Is the victim resting? Take a look.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0347par0721	Wait a second... The point is: to remove the immunity of an MP, to understand the woman's statement, to understand what she's going through, to vote for the MPs, there's no obstacle to being more specific, there's no doubt in the Civil Code. You're talking about perception... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The last sentence...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0349par0726	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0347par0727	What you've just said is perception, and you're trying to do a perception operation by naming Tolga Bey. Oh, we're telling the truth, the reports are here. And there's nothing wrong with taking them because I took them in the normal way, so I came in, and I didn't take them in the dark. It's the first time I've read it, it's time I bought it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0350par0729	You get it, we don't.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0347par0730	Mr. Ali will explain that now.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0350par0731	We're not getting it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0351par0732	Which means you can, but we can't.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0347par0733	Oh, no, no, I don't accept that. I don't suppose you'd like to read it, I think so, you don't have the heart to read it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0350par0734	Either the Commissioner's here, he didn't give or he didn't.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0352par0735	I'll tell you, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0350par0736	He sent it to New Dawn.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0353par0737	Now we promise, one thirty seconds... How impatient you are, there's no time to listen from screaming. So, there's no need to bend and twist, the painting is in the middle, no one's making you worthless, it's enough. Remember what you said to us on those platforms, how you insulted us, how you accused us of things that weren't there. Me and my friends, we're really moving on.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0354par0740	When this happened, we had a hell of a time and we exported it. What are you guys doing? You're sitting on the Budget Commission.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0353par0741	We're going with the facts. Mr. President, please promise our commission - Ali Bey. Thank you, I'm done, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0355par0744	Mr. President, I'd like to ask the bench for two minutes as subcommittee for direct harassment.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0356par0745	One moment, Mr. Ozkaya, sit down. Congressmans, we now have three members of our lawmakers' request to make a statement on this issue. I'll do it. From your position, please, in a nutshell...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0357par0748	Mr. President, I'm the Subcommittee. So I can explain it quickly from the podium for two minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0358par0749	We're commissioners, too.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0356par0750	All right, then. Dear Rose... Sit down, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0359par0752	Well, Mr. President, it would be more accurate if I spoke before Mr. Gülim, because Mr. Gülim was a Commissioner, I was the Subcommittee; it would be faster and clearer.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0356par0753	Well, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Rose.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0360par0754	No, let him tell him, let him answer him, Mr. President. Why is he leaving the podium?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0361par0755	Does the president run it or do you run it?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0356par0756	Here you go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0362par0760	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies, I was the President of the Subcommittee on immunity, and Mr. Gülim was a member of the Commission. We served on the Commission as five MPs -- Mr. Ali Mahir Afir of the CHP. Now, in this case, the Ankara Criminal Court of Peace has a confidentiality order on the case. We've had a long discussion, a situation where a person -- both sides -- can violate their financial and spiritual rights. As soon as immunity is removed or removed, only those who conduct that investigation can see a file the court has decided to secrecy. The Constitution and Justice Karma Commission came, the subcommittee was established, and we discussed it in the subcommittee, because there is no clear sentence in the Civil Code, and there is no clear sentence in the Penal Code. Let's say that we can't be touched. Why should everyone know everything? So, after we negotiated with our friends, I said, "No one, I'm not going to take copies of the documents, even I'm going to be the President of the Commission; come and review any document you want in the Commission room, see it, and then we'll decide."
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0363par0762	How did Miss Özlem get it? We didn't get it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0362par0763	Until the next day -- even two days, three days -- I gave you until Monday to study it. We had a meeting on Monday. At the meeting, I said, "Let's set up a road map; what do we do, how do we act?" And on Monday, we decided to let this person rest. Article 132.. The witness cannot rest. He says. We will decide based on the testimony of this person, the victim and the individual. A year has passed, there's no other evidence, and in a fundamental issue of removing the immunity of the MP, should we really be based on a missing statement on the document, or do we really need to learn about the issue and protect this immunity, the dignity of the House?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0363par0764	What substance did you endure? What substance?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0362par0765	Here are the MPs, Mr. Rose, you can't listen loud and clear. He didn't say...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0363par0766	Order me the Civil Code, the Civil Code!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0362par0767	Mr. Ali Mahir Akarir said, "Yes, it's good here." We listened together, and we didn't tell anyone we were listening.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0364par0768	Abdulkadir Selvi wrote, and Abdulkadir Selvi wrote.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0365par0769	Why don't you read the statement here? How come you haven't given it to me yet?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0362par0770	We listened quickly and filed a report. The 42nd Amendment, Civil Code 42...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0366par0772	Thank you, Mr. Ozkaya.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0362par0773	Mr. President, I'll turn it off right now. It's too short.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0366par0774	Thank you, please. Before, look, this is over; we're talking over and over again.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0367par0775	Mr. President, it's important; we're finishing it, it's important.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0362par0776	It's too short.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0366par0777	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0362par0778	Article 42 has been given to the President and the Speaker to write a report. However, we spoke to Mr. Gülim, and he came to my room. We've discussed the draft we've prepared in less than an hour and a half, and we've discussed issues that may be a violation of person's rights, and we've agreed. He told me: "The four or five pages are too many. " 11 pages in between brought additional opinions, not opposition. Most of them start from 1960, until 2020. I said to him, I don't take anything that isn't talked about, that's not in the file; I'm in charge of this matter, the Civil Code has given me this authority...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0368par0779	How did Abdulkadir Selvi write it?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0362par0780	...we take everything in the law here, we don't take anything out of it. According to this, we've submitted our report. I think we've done a great job, respected the law, protected the rights of character. The following part of the courts, I think we're doing our part in accordance with the Penal Code and the Civil Code. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0369par0783	Dear Rose...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0370par0784	Until he passes, let's just file a report. Mr. Özkaya's statements have confirmed my statement 100%. He couldn't give me the Civil Code clause, there's secrecy, we didn't get the report, so that's what I said. Who gave Abdulkadir Selvi (a subcommittee of Uzkaya) that article, that report? We didn't get it. I'm also a commissioner.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0369par0786	Dear Rose, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0371par0787	Your friends gave it to me.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0370par0788	How can I give it to you?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0372par0790	Is that why he wrote against you? He wrote against it because we gave it to him. Now, let's talk about the process the way it really worked out, guys, so let's not talk about it here, twisting it into different perceptions. One: When the commission was established, we first said, "This commission should be made up of women only -- you know, there are men on commissions -- because it is not right to discuss issues concerning women by men, especially if there is such a claim, women should speak. But it wasn't accepted by the Commission. So there's been a mixed situation, so there's been a commission with men, isn't there? Then we said on the subcommittee:
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0373par0793	Is that a thing?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0372par0794	Please, will you listen? Will you listen to me? I listened to you calmly.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0374par0795	Then tell me the truth.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0372par0796	I told the truth.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0375par0797	I was a member...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0376par0799	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0372par0800	O God, O Lord! Can I have your attention, please? If you want a word, talk later.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0376par0802	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Here you go, Mr. Rose.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0372par0804	And then, in the Commission, we said, "Woman's testimony is fundamental." This is a fundamental principle of our women's struggle, our feminist struggle, which has been the result of our years of struggle, which should be applied here as well; the woman's statement is fundamental, and the man has to prove otherwise. Therefore, since this is not the judiciary, let this fundamentally be accepted and the immunity be removed directly, so that the proceedings regarding the trial be completed. That's exactly what we're saying. After...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0377par0805	You're confirming us, okay, that's what we're saying.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0372par0806	That's what we said. Now, but once I've finished, I've listened, let me finish.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0378par0807	Complete it, Mr. Rose.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0372par0808	The woman behind him wanted to rest by the Commission -- although there was no such procedure -- she was called by herself, and we said we didn't find it right, because we said it wasn't the right way for her to be questioned repeatedly in front of a mixed group, in front of a group of men.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0378par0810	Let's take your last words, Mr. Rose.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0372par0811	I'm gonna take some time because it's important. Even in the courts, we said that the declaration of women should be taken once, that it shouldn't be taken again and again, that it was a victim for women, but unfortunately, you, members of the Commission, have carried out the process in order to gain political benefit from women's victims. At this point, you said a confidentiality decision, a confidentiality decision.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0379par0813	Your deputy hid it, two of your deputies. Look...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0372par0814	You used the same expression: there's a confidentiality order in the file, and there's a confidentiality decision here, so each of the transactions here are confidential, and the meetings here are confidential.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0380par0815	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0372par0816	In fact, since it's secret, we can give you a paper sample, you can only examine it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0380par0817	Right, right.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0372par0818	We didn't get any papers from that file. When we can't get papers, we can't...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0380par0819	You've studied them all, but you've studied them all, haven't you?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0381par0820	Hey, listen to me!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0372par0821	Let me finish for a minute.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0380par0822	But you've studied them all.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0381par0823	Yeah, well...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0372par0824	We went through it, but we didn't get the papers. When we couldn't get the papers...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0380par0825	Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0372par0826	Wait a second! I've listened to you, now please listen. When we couldn't get the papers, the press took the same notes, wrote them down. Now, Miss Rich, you're gonna have to hand over... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Please, I'll ask you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0382par0830	Finish your words, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0383par0831	He's free now!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0384par0832	He's free now, he's free now.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0385par0833	He's got the transcripts, he can read them one by one. Now, then, does this secrecy apply to us, or does it not apply to members of the AK PARTY? Now, I'd like to ask you, why can't I get one as Commissioner and Özlem gets one by one? Secondly...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0386par0835	He's free to go after the verdict.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0387par0836	Abdülkadir selvi. Abdulkadir Selvi wrote the next day. It seems that you gave Abdulkadir Selvi. Well, you're the only one.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0386par0837	No, no.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0388par0838	Now, folks, wait a minute... Another issue: The reading of the woman's statement here is the reconstruction of the woman's personal life and its victimhood in that direction, which we do not accept.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0386par0840	No, they've been written before, the subjects written by Abdulkadir Selvi.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0388par0841	Because your policy, unfortunately, is not to solve women's problems, but to solve women's victims, but your concern is to make them political tools without even considering the victimization of a woman. [[Interference between EC PARTI and HDP rows]] If you're really into women's stuff, then let's see if you can stop releasing women's rapists, bring out a pardon law for rapists.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0389par0845	Ask Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0390par0846	Mr. President, for the record.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0391par0847	You can take this report after the report is written.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0392par0848	Anyone can have it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0391par0849	Anyone can have it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0393par0850	Can I have a sentence?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0394par0851	Abdulkadir Selvi wrote everywhere, Abdulkadir Selvi.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0395par0852	You took it all, you read it all.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0394par0853	Who gave it to Abdulkadir Selvi? Who gave them to Abdulkadir Selvi?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0395par0854	Ask Abdulkadir Selvi.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0394par0855	Why are you interfering?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0396par0856	Guys, you can't get away with yelling. You kept it a year, you can't get away with screaming.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0397par0857	You're in the same politics.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0398par0858	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0399par0860	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0398par0863	Mr. President, in the middle -- let all Turkey see -- these reports are confidential, they haven't been given to anyone. But Ozlem Lafik has a commission report; that is a crime, and that is a crime! Did Abdulkadir give Selvi (Ajlem) the Rich? (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Which AKPlı gave it to you? Who gave it to New Dawn? Is it a woman or an attack on a woman? Let the whole of Turkey see this.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0400par0864	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0401par0865	Why do you keep it a year? So you didn't have anything until the press announced it. The press announced it, you discharged it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0402par0866	The commission has not made a confidentiality decision, the court has made a confidentiality decision.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0401par0867	Where were you until that day?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0403par0868	That's a shame.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0402par0869	You'll be the judge of...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0404par0870	There's no such thing, there's no such thing, don't twist it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0405par0872	Mr. President... Mr. Ali, would you excuse me? Mr. President, I'd like to make a promise, Mr. President. I'd like to speak to the heat, please.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0406par0875	Kadıgil, Kadıgil...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0405par0876	Please, I want to promise the heat.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0406par0877	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0405par0879	What Mr. Kadıgil is going to say is something else. Look, Mr. President, you can't do anything by screaming right now. Here's the problem, here's the problem...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0407par0881	You're yelling as Deputy Director of the Group!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0408par0882	Shut up!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0407par0883	You shut up!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0408par0884	Disrespectful!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0407par0885	You're disrespectful!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0408par0886	This is the Deputy Director of the Group, that's enough!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0407par0887	You're the one who's disrespectful!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0409par0888	Complete it, Mr. Rich, complete it, and your friends are talking.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0407par0889	Know your place, know your place!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0410par0890	You'll know your place!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0411par0891	You know your place!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0407par0892	Look at that! Speak from there, speak from there, speak from there; when we speak, intervene.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0410par0893	Who do you think you are?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0407par0894	Shame on you!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0412par0895	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0410par0896	You've been playing theater for an hour, you've been hiding it for a year!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0407par0897	We didn't hide anything, don't mistake it for yourself.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0410par0898	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0413par0899	Belma, excuse me. Mr. President... [[Interference between EC PARTI and HDP rows]] I'd better sit down, I guess I'll have to wait. Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0414par0904	Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0413par0905	Now, look...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0414par0907	Come in, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0413par0908	Look, Mr. President, we say that our president, our own Commissioner, has stated that there is secrecy in the process of this report until it happens. From the moment the report is written, it's become public, I've taken what's public, what's public. Oh, if you're not taking it, if you're not taking it, that means you're not following your job. Look, the problem here is that you, your, according to this report, two of your female surrogates knew about it a year ago.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0415par0909	Lies! Lies! Lies!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0413par0910	Let's say he didn't tell anyone, then they're keeping a very good secret.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0416par0911	Yeah, even in court, there's privacy, even in court. What are you doing with him?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0413par0912	She said it as a secret, went to them for help. Don't be offended by this, because I read what's in the report.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0417par0913	What a nuisance we're going to have! Your officers are already working as a hit man.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0416par0914	No, we don't bother at all. We don't bother at all.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0413par0915	You know, if it was a jury, I'd say I'd leave it to the jury, I'd leave it to the public, I'd leave it to the public. Our people make up their minds.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0416par0917	You're liars!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0418par0918	Thank you. Mr. Kadıgil...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0419par0920	Mr. President, I beg you, this is out of control.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0418par0921	Finally, we'll listen to Mr. Kadigil.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0420par0922	Miss Özlem, give one of that report to Ms. Meral.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0421par0923	Let's really give it to him.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0422par0924	Mr. Turan, we don't have it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0423par0925	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Selvi published it, published it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0421par0926	There's nothing for them!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0423par0927	You're confusing yourself with the fact that we're not going to give up women's struggle.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0424par0928	Mr. Kadıgil, please don't let us challenge a new challenge. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0425par0932	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not going to put up a new challenge, and you won't believe it, and I'm not going to talk angry, and I'm going to talk very calmly, because I honestly say this because I know that there are friends in the AKP line who are willing to fight women for it, and I know that there are friends who are willing to fight for it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0426par0934	Thank God, I applaud!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0427par0935	Way to go!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0425par0936	So, I'm going to respond with a very gentle tone to the bullying that I hope is beyond the ignorance of the character, which I hope is beyond research. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, now, have there been harassment, rape cases inside the CHP? Okay. Of course, we live in a country that doesn't have gender equality, and we've been living in your power for 18 years, and you accuse us of being silent. Please listen to me; I'm reading the "tweet" I've thrown away, your sewer media, before they start attacking us: the vicious assailants of the Athletic Order are among us in every environment. It's about not covering up what he's gonna say, but just like that, he's gonna pay for it. I also congratulate my sister, who exposed and complained about this man, and the county organization that expelled him immediately. It is my only wish that he receive the harshest punishment he deserves.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0428par0941	Now, now!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0425par0942	That's what we clearly write about. Not enough, we met with the women's deputies, we made a statement, we said, "We invite you to be sensitive." Why? We have a 20-year-old victim. A 20-year-old victim makes a statement through her lawyer and says: "The president of the county gave me all the support he could. In this regard, secondary errors of the 20-year-old victim are caused by collateral damage. Finally, I'm going to say that you accuse me of being silent.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0429par0945	Mr. President, don't shout!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0425par0946	By the way, we discharged this pervert in three days, and he's already under arrest.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0429par0947	Don't shout, don't scream!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0430par0948	Say it without yelling, without yelling!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0425par0949	And I'm going to tell you something like, you know, why didn't you react?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0429par0950	No yelling, no yelling!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0425par0951	I'm not only in this case... but my Group Deputy, all my female paralegal friends have explained that zero tolerances...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0431par0953	No way, we've never seen it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0425par0954	.... He grabbed her by the ear, put this pervert out front, and we did what we had to do.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0431par0955	No, we don't accept!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0432par0956	He didn't, he didn't!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0425par0957	So, where did we keep quiet? [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One more minute, please.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0433par0961	Complete, Mr. Kadigil.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0425par0962	For example, do you know where we've been silent, in Sakarya, when your AKP member was charged with rape of two 14-year-old girls as a group?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0434par0964	You've done it wrong!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0425par0965	For example, when your former AKP chief raped a mentally challenged 15-year-old girl in Ovacık, we kept quiet as a group.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0434par0967	You've done it wrong!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0425par0968	Because you know why? When is something protested? When you don't do the judicial work, when parties don't do the job, there's a protest. If the party has done its due, expelled it, given the necessary legal support, and the victims are begging us not to talk about it. If it still begs us not to do so, I entrust it to the conscience of this traitor, and I say nothing more.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit04spe0435par0970	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0435par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Nuclear Organising Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account MIDDLE DETECTIVE AND EARCH GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2019 Central Management Predictable Account ÜRKEY ATOM INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Occupational Qualification Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Occupational Qualification Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account EVLET PERSONEL PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 The commission is in place. In the third round, we begin speeches on behalf of the Good PARTY Group. Congressman Yasin Ozturk. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0436par0046	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the well-placed PARTI Group on the budget of the Department of Energy and its subsidiaries in 2021. I salute the General Assembly. First of all, it's proof of how freaky the current system is, and the fact that our current ministers are not even present at the Commission's offices in connection with their ministry budgets is a sign that they can't afford their own budgets. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] I begin my speech with a breath from Anatolia: Mount Maden is barley, if the plow walks, All the streams are mills, if the water comes, A chicken from every peasant, if the peasant gives it to him, It's not going to end well, if that's the way it's going. Basically, energy policies are given to all consumers in an adequate, quality, continuous, low-cost and reliable way. Energy use is a right for a citizen, and energy resources are a common property of society. Therefore, meeting the need for energy must be met with public interest. In the interest of public interest in the relevant laws, this task has been given to the Ministry of Energy to determine the short and long-term needs of the country for energy and natural resources, to help determine the policies needed for supply, to plan. Energy has become the most chronic problem in the globalized world. In particular, developed and developing countries allocate large amounts of energy from their budgets to provide maximum benefit from unlimited and irresponsible energy sources, even though it is scarce and precious. In the presentation of the budget budget for 2021 of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources in the Plan and Budget Commission, Mr. Minister Fatih reported that the bid for the 2021 Year Budget Law Proposal total was $5 billion, 61,810,000, including MTA, MAPEG, TENAK, EPDK and NDK. Many factors are considered when energy policies are set and strategies are drawn. The energy sector affects and affects almost every area from industry to agriculture, transportation to communication, health and international relations. Together, security, geographical position, imperial perceptions, counterpolitics, technological developments, climate change, political and economic crises, regional conflicts must be considered when energy policies are determined. While fundamental elements in energy policies do not vary easily, there is a constant obligation to develop an argument based on circumstances. That is the purpose of the establishment of institutions and institutions that create infrastructure for energy policies and the organisation of the industry. Direct access to energy sources, particularly oil and gas reserves, is seen as the factors that determine the energy policies of global capital, to plan and control the energy pathways that these sources will be transmitted. International capital, called sustainable development, determines energy production and consumption across the world and shapes resource sharing in its own interests. Henry Kissinger has a famous saying: "If you control the petrobe, you control the state, the food, you control the people." The validity of this statement is becoming even more meaningful, given the world states that have created colonies that risk war for the sharing of energy sources. Interestingly, many countries around the world have given up the privatisation policies they see as the basis for energy dependence and energy security weakening, and have begun to retake strategic institutions into public control. Outer dependency, which was 67.2% in energy supply in 2002, increased to 72.4 per cent in 2018. Turkey's rapidly increasing energy imports amounted to $41.6 billion in 2019. The 5 billion and 61 million budget that the Minister explained, which he has on my website, is not enough to increase the use of domestic resources and free us from external energy dependency. Especially given the amount of tenders and incentives taken by several firms -- such as Energy, Transport, Industry ministries -- which are above the Ministry budget -- the budget explained by the Minister is insufficient. On the discovery of a British newspaper known for its assessment of the world economy, however, selling state assets has become a passion for the AK PARTY. Today all strategic institutions of the state, not just energy institutions, are sold with this passion. The government has no institution to invest in, no ministry to ensure energy security. The Ministry of Energy has taken away all its institutions, which contain wealth, such as electricity, minerals, oil, natural gas. The 5 billion 61 million-dollar budget is a lot for a Ministry that has handed over its investments, its mission, which has only become a means of intercession to bureaucratic transactions. In the meantime, many countries around the world are separating important budgets for fighting climate change, while the leaders of the European Union demand that at least 25 per cent of the European Union's budget be separated. In the central management budget of 2021, the amount for sustainable environment and climate change is only one per thousandth of the central budget. The government perceives the environment as an incentive, an exception, and a sale of billions, but has not been able to establish the connection between climate change and droughts, floods, forest fires, and extreme weather disasters. Dear MPs, the archive is important. Parties' election declarations are also an archive. Promises made in the declaration shed light on the future as well as on oath binding. The first election declaration of the EC PARTY, which stepped into politics in 2001 as the Erdemite Movement, is also important in this regard. See what has been said in the 2002 electoral declaration of the EC PARTI: past governments have recently implemented their policies and have made the energy field an urgent and difficult problem for Turkey to get out of. Incompatible with our country's predictable growth perspectives, the acquisitions or payment agreements, concessions and right-of-management agreements, Turkey's move has been increasingly difficult to deal with. The transfer of this financial burden to consumers with high unit prices and high taxes has consequences that deter energy consumption, slow growth, reduce the competitiveness of our domestic capital and prevent foreign capital investments. Such measures will be taken to bring high losses and fugitive rates to acceptable balances in the delivery, distribution, and billing phases. I felt the need to share just a few sentences that were important to repeat over and over in 18 years and still not perform. On behalf of the citizen who's been in charge of the commitment in 18 years, why did you create monopolys that feed on concessions and responsibilities, instead of giving up the financial burdens that are increasingly challenging to move our country? What did you do to reduce the number of missing fugitives in transmissions, distributions, and invoices? What did you do to reduce the public's energy-related billing costs? What tax did you give up on the electricity bills you criticised for rising in high prices and taxes? Why did you go to my tax increase instead of a tax reduction? Let me remind you of your promise that electricity distribution privatisation, rather than cheapness, has cost priced electric tariffs and service costs, has created a legal way of transferring funds from consumers to distribution companies. The cost of renovation investments, expressed by the private sector after privatisations, has increased, contrary to expectations, and has been reflected in consumers through tariffs. There seems to be problems identifying the energy cost to be sold by distributor companies. Despite legal regulations related to the issue, no formula has been developed by the EPDK on identifying and updating sales prices for companies that will distribute energy. Today, a house subscriber, billed by private companies, pays 51 per cent of the amount of the bill at the price of electricity, and the rest at the price of other fees. In addition to the cost of use and distribution in an electric bill, energy funds, TRT share, electricity consumption tax and VAT are received. The interesting thing is that taxes included in paying electricity costs are also paid. So the tax is also taxed by citizens. However, the missing fugitive battle was abandoned, and it became a price that the citizen was obliged to pay and was almost fixed on the bill. Meanwhile, in the field of electrical energy, private manufacturers have been paid about 47 billion liras in 2019, in addition to new support practices in the process-processing and right-of-business era in previous times. With these payments, around 23 billion liras have been transferred to private companies in the last year alone as an additional price over market prices. However, the government, which has even paid the VAT of taxes, has not been able to collect from electricity companies that are responsible for taxing citizens for the Energy Fund, which are responsible for investing energy funds from consumers into the Ministry of Energy. Energy companies collecting bills from the final consumer did not pay the public the price they were supposed to pay. In short, the right to use electricity on a citizen has been abandoned to the mercy of the market with power. Dear lawmakers, our country, which has scarce energy sources in many world countries, is under clamps by imperial countries who want to continue its exploitation mentality through international organisations and international cartels. Unfortunately, the name of the new exploitation system is sometimes innocentized as international investments. Unfortunately, in our country, most of the companies that search for mines are companies founded on foreign capital. In most of the foreign-owned companies established, domestic capital share is scarce. Among the companies looking for mines in our country are European countries such as Germany, France, Britain, Greece, the United States, Canada, Russia and China, while the Cayman Islands are also known for money laundering, such as the Vincent Islands. So, is this so much looting of our national resources only due to the hunger of international monopoly investments? No. The government's permission for these companies stems from the search, taking measures to reduce bureaucracy in the business phases, implementing incentives and making every area of the country a mining area. At this stage, the first step in favour of the gold cartels was taken by Law 5177 on 26 April 2004. In many laws later, special environmental protection zones, national parks, natural parks, agriculture, mera, water basins, forest, wildlife protection areas, coastal areas and coastal lanes, landwaters, cultural and tourism protection zones, military restricted areas, zoning sites, first-degree sites were offered to the miners. The transfer of domestic resources to foreigners has become so troubling that it is important for the Director General of Mining Enterprises, established within the Turkish Entity Fund, to explain that it is impossible for the development of countries in which the state is not strong and that the state is not in this sector in a strong way. We never look at state officials, but here the government has to create a model that creates income. This statement, consisting of just a few sentences, contains the summary and confessions of the AK PARTY's mentality, which is a confession. Yes, the government is no longer in the mining industry in a strong way. Public mining companies such as Etibank, Turkey's Iron Steel Enterprises, Black Sea Copper Enterprises, Turkey's Coal Company, Turkey's Taşkömömu Foundation have been privatised during the period of the AK PARTI. The insides of these institutions were evacuated during this period of power. Through these privatisations, it has been fiscally mauled, creating revenues from mines, the largest share of the source of income. What does it mean to look after the state? Is profit not my priority, but will it come out of my pocket if I do harm? Is it his approach? What does it mean to look after the state? Is it to place friends, relatives on boards of directors, not even one, but a number of institutional boards at the same time? What does it mean to look after the state? For those who shouldn't be politically offended, for those who need to be silenced, for those who are kept on the sidelines, for those who are kept on the sidelines? What does it mean to look after the state? Maybe he doesn't know what power and appointees are; taking care of every penny of the state means taking care of the state; taking care of the state means keeping public interest in front of the state; taking care of the state; filling my pockets, filling my eyes. The gist of it is that the government has no institutions left to be privatized in the name of the mine. A new institution will be established, with a public-private cooperation, and a new way to transfer funds to companies that are always breached by public tenders, with the assurance of the Entity Fund, which is largely out of public supervision. Dear MPs, I'd like to continue with the energy and foreign investors. From the 2002 declaration, the only thing the EC PARTI has decided to do is to invite foreign investors to Turkey. The EC PARTY, which connects hope to foreign investors without power, made its final invitation just a few days ago by Mr. President: I want to draw the gold and say that in 18 years, we have never seen international investors as foreign investors, we don't see them. Whatever resources we provide our own people, we provide the same for all entrepreneurs who rely on Turkey, who believe in Turkey's investment environment. We encourage investments from defence industry to food, digital economy to healthcare, to lead the technological transformation of Turkey. I want you to know that the Presidential Investment Office is ready to provide you with all the support you need. Strangers invest in stable countries' economies, as well as foreign partnerships. In the economy, good money expels bad money. You can also seek it without forgetting its principle. But it turns out you're not after good money, you're just after money. If you make this call without stability, you will only withdraw the bad money, handing over the country's defence industry and energy resources to foreign monopolys without realizing it. Now, the Department of Energy's affiliated and relevant organizations. Under a presidential decree issued on 28 March 2020 in the Official Gazette, Turkey's Atomic Energy Institute was founded in 2018 with the National Bor Research Institute and has not even been able to prove itself, and has been shut down by the Institute for Research on Rare Earth Elements (TENMAK). For our country, Bor is an economic and strategically important national mine, and in 2003, the National Bor Research Institute was established as the branch of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources to increase the use of this mine. What needs to be done is to transfer more resources to the boron-related institution of fucking national mining status, but the institution has been shut down; years of expertise, institutional savings, experience, and memory have been destroyed. Our national mine has been reduced under the roof of a new institution whose budget is limited, the distribution of authority and duty is uncertain. In the same way, Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency, a sixty-four-year-old institution, was shut down, while it was not even explained why it was shut down when it was combined with institutions that had no direct ties to the issue and narrowed down its field of activity. It is necessary to provide services to physical and nuclear engineers, who have been raised in nuclear space for years, who have been left out of the country, who have been left out of their rights, and who have been left out of their rights. Unfortunately, I'd like to point out that there are a lot of off-site assignments at the nuclear regulatory agency, as well as at the State Department. Opening an institution is a public source. NATEN, one of the institutions closed by decree, was founded in July 2018. In less than a year and a half before it's established, shutting down this institution, combining it with unrelated institutions, it's a total lack of vision. The decision includes the words "strength or sanctioned" regarding the duties of TENMAKAK (TENMAK). Since it is unlikely that the institutions that have been wiped out of experience and savings will be able to do these tasks themselves, these tasks will be sent to delivery companies; this is the real reason why old institutions have been shut down and invented a new institution. Let me continue with the ministry's interests and powers: a decree was issued regarding the energy ministry's relevant company, Eti Mine, on February 24, 2017, and all shares of the company were agreed to be transferred to the Turkish Entity Fund. The fate of the companies that have been handed over to Turkey's Entity Fund is obvious. The plots are divided into parcels, and shares are sold in bulk. Again, the ministry's relevant organisation, Tİ, in the Court reports, has damaged capital and other resources provided by executives due to its responsibility to use and assess its efficiency and efficiency based on efficiency and profitability, and to act contrary to its obligation. The 79,387000 Turkish lira, which is the cost of computational errors, has been transferred to two companies, which have been given to the five companies, which have added wealth to their wealth. Leaving behind his duties in the production of stone coal, the institution seized the cosmetics industry to cover its damage, but when it did not keep such products as cream, shampoo, it threw away 48,500 products that had expired. Almost all of the energy ministry's relevant institutions have closed their term with damage, and BOTAS is one of them. BOTAS, which announced profits until handing over to the Entity Fund in 2017, closed 2019 at $5.6 billion in damages. In terms of power, the increased damage is caused by financing costs. Sadly, many public companies have made it a tradition to link the damage done in their budgets to financing costs and exchange rate fluctuations, and instead of using the local and foreign funds they keep in banks to cover investments and damages, they have become interest and dollar followers. Dear lawmakers, my speech was on the Ministry of Energy, but today we're also discussing the budget of the Ministry of Family and Labor. Yesterday, my Denizli counterpart, Teoman Bey, gave him a very nice way to thank him. Those who didn't give $5 lira to our own shop, to our citizens, sent $5 million to Tunisia. I'm going to say something like that, but I'm not going to do the rest: there's a word called drinking... you'll understand the rest. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing my promise, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0437par0088	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0436par0089	So millions of families in our country are trying to get by on minimum wage, or rather, they're not getting along; the problem with minimum wage citizens is that we all have to worry about them. Mr. President, Coral Akshener has made an offer to power with this precision. Let's raise the gross fee to 3,000 lira and pay the minimum wage workers full gross income, so that our employer should give the minimum wage tax of our citizens and the SGK bonus to the employee, not the state, but the employee's income tax and the SGK bonus. In this way, the cost of the employer will continue to be the same as the net amount of $3,000 for our citizens who work at minimum wage. So let's raise our employee's minimum salary from $2.325 to $3,000, but let's not increase the cost to the employer. And let the state handle the SGK bonus and income tax, which comes from minimum wage, as well as the employees who receive more than minimum wage. In other words, let our government put $675 a month in the pockets of all employees, but not from the employer. That's our suggestion. With the nation's profits increasing, our consumption will increase by 112 billion liras, and the impact of this increase will be around 450 billion liras on our national income. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing up.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0437par0092	Let's say hello, please.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0436par0093	So we're going to increase consumption and national revenues without borrowing our citizens and our companies. The employment contribution would be 1,550,000 new employees. I repeat, for those of you who want to understand, the plow is no longer working. The creek's dead, the water's not running. The peasant has nothing left, he can't give. Looks like it's the end of the road for you, too.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0437par0096	Mr. Ayhan Altınstone. Here you go, Mr. Goldstone.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0438par0098	Mr. President, I have made a commitment on behalf of the good PARTI Group on the budget of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. I salute the General Assembly. Before I begin my speech, I ask God's mercy to our police and citizens who were killed in the terrorist attack in Beşiktaş district of İstanbul on 10 December 2016. Also, today is December 10th, Human Rights Day, and I wish all mankind the best. Energy has become an essential element of life in the modern world, in the technological age we live in. Without energy, we can't feed, we can't secure, we can't run our business. The demand for energy in our country is increasing day by day. The annual demand for electricity energy from 2000-2018 rose by an average of 3 per cent in the world, while we increased by 5 per cent, as stated in the 2021 Presidential Programme. This increase in the presidential budget of 2021 is linked to growth. The measure of healthy growth in the world now is not the consumption of much energy, but the more efficient and more efficient consumption. Unfortunately, in our country, energy isn't all about roses. I'm going to talk about three problems that I consider important in government energy policies: one is that we depend on energy outside; the second is that we use the environment and the nature in energy use in the wild, and the third is that we view energy as a Rant field. Turkey has been using substantially imported energy sources since the 80s. We import important amounts of oil, natural gas and coal. Yes, a country is not always self-sufficient, it's almost impossible, but we need to be less dependent on energy as much as we can. In the 1990s, our dependence on the energy supply of 67% in 2002 increased to 72 percent in 2018. In addition, according to TÜİK data, our imports of energy in 2017 were 37 billion 204 million dollars, while in 2018 it was about 43 billion dollars, and in 2019 it was 41.6 billion dollars. Sure, there's a lot of trouble here. The higher prices of the countries we supply natural gas, and in the event of any shortages or problems, the problems we face in the situation of political distress may be a challenge. Therefore, natural gas storage needs to be sufficient. We find the investments in this subject to be positive, but we think the 4 billion cubic metres of natural gas storage capacity should be increased further. Another problem with addiction is that agreements are not transparent. The contracts are confidential. It's tried, but the bill is being paid. The second thing I see as a problem with power energy is that we use the environment, nature, air, water, and even slaughter it in energy production and use. Especially in river-type hydroelectric plants, thermal plants and mining, we're one of the most callous countries in the world. I've told you before, the government's approach to the environment is wrong. Under the ground, whatever's on the ground, it's efficient, inefficient, it's built on selling it quickly, not thinking about the future -- I'm sorry, I'm going to use that term -- it's an ignorant approach. In fact, sometimes it gives foreign companies ten to fifteen years in exchange for modest investments in the right to slaughter our nature. This approach, according to environmental organisations, is an approach that led to the slaughter of 195 thousand trees in the Kaz Mountains. Nature is being plundered, and you stand up next to the Kaz Mountains and add Avanos. In the cities of Aydın, the beautiful nature of Aydın, his people, and his agriculture are being severely damaged. We say that generations from this stage will not only be our grandchildren, our children, your children and your grandchildren will be affected by it, but unfortunately you still don't listen. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Dear lawmakers, even if you make money with these policies in the short term, you lose in the long run because these policies are not sustainable. To understand the environmental importance of the ministry, let us consider the budget: Look, how much of the energy and natural resources ministry's budget for 4 billion euros is divided into sustainable environments and the Office of Climate Change and Integration? Hang on, guys, it's only $2.5 million, less than 1 in a thousand. With this budget, you're targeting a sustainable environment? If you care about the environment, first, remove the EPA application immediately, and immediately discuss all energy policies with the participation of the public and NGOs. Dear lawmakers, the third problem is the mistakes in electrical privatisation and the problems they cause. A lot of electricity production facilities have been privatized in our country. The public's share in electricity production is only 19.5% in 2019. Investors, encouraged by the prospect of high demand for electricity, quickly used foreign loans to build gas cycles, but in developing conditions, when electricity production became expensive, loans became unpayable. Last year the electricity production and distribution industry had $47 billion in debt. That's 12 or 13 billion dollars unpayable. Of course, these payments are also reflected in the public's bill as a cost of capacity use or as a tax. In recent years, power from the electricity board has been increasing regularly, but there is no increase in demand at the same rate. In fact, the request is also subject to a recession starting in 2017. We have over 93 thousand megawatts of power installed in our country. However, even at the highest point of consumption, there is a total consumption of 49,000 megawatts. Plus, there's the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant, with the power of 4,800 megawatts and the power of 35 billion kilowatts per year that will generate electricity, our capacity will increase even more, but our usage rate will be far below our capacity, as it turns out. As a result of these unplanned moves, some of the plants have stopped production, some have shut down, some have been sold. Electrical distribution and sale have been completely privatized. What happened? Did we use cheaper electricity? Did we invest more efficiently? Are we out of energy dependency? Are we running low on energy imports? On the contrary, there are major problems in this situation. In practice, this privatisation business has turned into a runt transfer. Dear friends, the problems caused by the privatisation of distribution companies do not come from the public's agenda almost every day. Unfortunately, some of our citizens don't have access to electricity. We've been talking about this over and over again. We need to get every member of our people access to electricity. Distribution companies avoid infrastructure in some areas, avoiding investment costs in various ways. This affects our livestock, farmers, and peasants, who were originally away from their settlements. Our milk producers, who are asked to stay away from settlements, need to get them into the cold system immediately after milking their milk, but the distribution company doesn't bring electricity to these businesses with some excuse. We must apply the sanctions in this matter immediately, and then we must consider ways for our citizens to access electricity cheaper. That's what we expect, that's what we want. Our people are already struggling with inflation, even having trouble feeding, our people, unfortunately, are still using electricity at high prices. We are the third most expensive country in the price of electricity, according to the share of purchasing power among the G20 member states. There are over 43 million electricity subscribers with 35 million residents. Look, 35 million subscribers pay electric bills at the same rate. That's not fair. It would be more appropriate for a low-use citizen to be electrocuted at a discounted price. So, the citizen will use electricity on his own income, and eventually, he will be able to save a little bit of his income. An application like this has another advantage for us, using different tariffs will encourage citizens to use less electricity, thus saving energy. Dear MPs, now $19.43 of a $100 electricity bill is tax and funds, and $28.27 is the distribution price, and the remaining 52.3 lira is the electricity price used by the subscriber. So about half of the bill is for the electricity used by the user, the rest is for distribution, taxes, meter reading, TRT pay, etcetera. You hide a lot of things in bills, which we learn by coincidence. Just yesterday, we found out that the cost of representation and hospitality of companies, staff travel, mediation and attorney's expenses are also in the invoice. Guys, what's the delivery price? There has to be a price paid to improve the quality of the company's service, to invest in it, and to reduce the number of missing fugitives. Did these companies improve the quality of service while we, as citizens, paid this money well? Did they invest in service to the citizen? For example, the missing fugitive price on all of our bills. Is it a citizen's duty to prevent it, which is a citizen's punishment?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0439par0115	Mr. Orator, if you'll excuse me... Mr. Secretary, if someone were to come forward and use insulting statements here... you'd be very comfortable listening. Mr. Orator is bringing suggestions that might actually be a solution on the stand, and you're turning your back on listening. I invite you to be a little more careful about this. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0440par0119	I mean, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0439par0120	That's the way it is.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0440par0121	There's no such procedure, really. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0441par0122	There's no such procedure.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0440par0123	Mr. Secretary does the listening, he gets the relevant information, there's no problem with that.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0442par0124	I'm so sorry, Mr. Orator.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0440par0125	Interrupting the speech during the speaker's speech and making such a call is definitely a violation of the rules, which is not true.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0442par0126	I'll stop talking to the speaker in my own band. You just sit there and listen.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0443par0127	Mr. Akbasoglu, please...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0444par0128	About the missing fugitive...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0445par0129	You take your seat, sir, you take your seat. What you're doing here is disrespecting the main speaker.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0446par0130	Help yourself to some...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0447par0131	No, she asked permission, she asked permission from her own speaker.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0445par0132	You're disrespecting your own speaker. There's no such thing, no permit.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0448par0133	Not at all.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0449par0134	Yeah, you're a man with no respect!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0450par0135	Add four minutes, Mr. President, four minutes gone.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0451par0136	Mr. Goldstone, something has actually happened to you over us, so please keep talking.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0450par0137	Add four minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0452par0138	Add four minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0453par0139	It's his own Deputy Group President who's responsible for this.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0454par0140	Thank you. There's been a lot of expectations from these companies about the missing fugitive. When the electricity distribution was privatized, these companies had committed to lowering their missing fugitive ratios to the government. Did you see what happened to the latest missing fugitive ratios? In some of our provinces, there are over 50 per cent of illegal use, even over 70 per cent. So these companies didn't succeed as expected. In the beginning, it was agreed that the regions would meet their own lost fugitive costs, but the system was never approved, and the cost of electricity users was reflected in the entire system. This is not a fair practice; the cost of failures, shortcomings in the work, and even serious impotence in the administration has been placed on the back of an open citizen. This needs to be resolved immediately. The government and the administration must pursue the missing illegal or stolen electricity and not punish all citizens. Besides, these companies aren't doing enough for the jobs you're privatizing, the power distribution companies you're giving them. And the citizen is paying the price again. The sanctions, such as retail sales margins, must be implemented immediately. We see a lack of control here. The Ministry has to do the inspection, but the Ministry has TEDAS and EPDK. But they don't have enough staff or agencies. What happens when you don't have inspections and sanctions? What's the precaution? Each time to revisit the missing fugitive ratios and to hide the inefficiency of these companies and to reflect the cost on citizens' bills. Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. President, friends are talking to each other. Please, respect the security guard.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0455par0144	Mr. Secretary, your job is to listen to the preacher. It's your job, too.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0456par0146	There's no disrespect like that!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0455par0147	There's no disrespect like that! Everyone here is doing what they get from the community. It's your job, too. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Just shut your mouth! Is that a thing?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0457par0151	The Minister is listening to his staff. They've got deputy ministers.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0458par0152	You can't do this to the House! You'll know your place! You can't just sit there and tune up the House. Know your place!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0459par0153	Know your place, don't you dare!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0460par0154	Wait a minute... Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0461par0156	What kind of disrespect is that?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0462par0157	He's disrespecting the House. That's what happens when you look at it. That's what happens when you look at it. It's not like that when he's out of the House.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0460par0158	Mr. President, look, a group vice president just got up on the stand and the ministers were listening...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0463par0159	Does this place belong to only your deputies?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0464par0160	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0460par0161	...when he listened to people asking him questions, and they started the wrong way about it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0464par0162	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0460par0163	It is also appropriate to respond in the wrong way.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0465par0164	Mr. Akbasoglu, remind the Minister of the law of Parliament that he violated the Civil Code.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0460par0165	The law of parliament is not to violate the Civil Code. First, Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0466par0166	Please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0467par0167	Let's stop talking about it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0468par0168	Anyway, let's get it over with.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0466par0169	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's been two times... look, we're being unfair, Your Honor. Please don't let me be unfair to your honor.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0469par0170	Mr. President, you must uphold the law of the House!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0466par0171	Here you go, Mr. Goldstone.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0470par0172	Dear lawmakers, look, this is a situation that needs to be focused and corrected. Your privatisation of electricity distribution isn't working as you expected. You have to admit you've made a mistake somewhere. We told him about the problem with infrastructure investments. The citizen is being victimized. We also told him the delivery price, the missing fugitive price. The citizen who pays the bill is being fined for illegal use. And in short, you support it on a dollar basis, as part of the Renewable Energy Resource Support Mechanism, which is called the YIKDEM. WE are not opposed to SEPTEMBER, but we are opposed to dollar-based support based on nepotism and unproductive efficiency. We've got a lot more, we're producing more than we've consumed, and yet the number of companies that are involved is increasing. This also increases the burden of the cost of spending on electricity subscribers every year. In fact, there's a huge role in the fact that these companies are multiplying so quickly, and the purchase guarantees on the dollar are a big part of it. For example, in 2011, the production plant was 20 years old, while in 2020, the number rose to 818. OVER 20 billion liras were paid in exchange for electricity production. In addition, why are such incentives given over dollars? For example, the government's guarantee of purchase for solar power plants is 13 cents more than $1.00 per kilowatts. Resort users are given an average of 71 cents for the kilowatts of electricity. 13 cents is about $1 from today's ribbon; it's an overpriced price. Hydroelectricity, wind, geothermal, biomass, and for that, incentives are from dollars. The higher the woo, the greater the damage. Well, why isn't Turkish lira used? Why is that guaranteed over the dollar? I asked Mr. Secretary of the Plan and Budget Commission about that. Let me read to you the answer from the ministry: The Law on Electrical Marketing and Changes in Some Laws, which has been presented to the Turkish National Assembly, and there are provisions in the Law Proposal that the purchase price will be Turkish. Of course, we're happy to have that answer. We're looking at the law passed just two weeks ago in the House. In Article 23 of the Law on Electric Market Law and Changes in Some Laws, there are incentives on a dollar basis. Dear friends, I don't see the price of purchases being Turkish or the answer doesn't tell the truth? Are we being deceived like Mr. President? As for the Court report: Electric Energy Fund contribution collected from the citizens in the invoices determined by the Court that some companies have been invested or have never been admitted. The Ministry didn't follow up on it or follow up on it. Is that acceptable, friends? Doesn't the Ministry have a duty to take care of the citizen's money? What was it intended to do with this Fund? Energy efficiency and savings, smart networks, network security, sustainable research and development were targeted. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I continue?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0471par0177	You're in debt, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0470par0178	The Ministry, which allows this Fund not to be paid, probably finds this type of RD work unnecessary. I'd like to bring up another topic here. We need to be very careful with the cyber security of both our national networks and our regional distribution networks. Unfortunately, we control and maintain this system through foreign-based software. You know, many years ago, Israel sent a virus called STUXNET, into Iran's energy system, causing serious losses. Today, the defense of the country is not just about protecting the land. In this regard, it is a weakness of both weakness and national security that the Ministry is unable to impose sanctions on the Fund, which can be used to find local solutions. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] What's the result? With all this bad government, it's a situation where electricity is raised one by one. According to the data released by TÜİK (TİK), in the first period of 2020, our homes were raised by 32.3 per cent compared to the first period of the previous year. Thus, electricity averaged 71 cents a kilowatts per hour. It's bad for natural gas. In the first quarter of 2020, there is an increase of 34.7 per cent compared to the first period of 2019, an average of 1 cubic meter of natural gas, 182.6 cents. There's a similar decline in industry. The Corona virus epidemic has affected our industry's work so much, and the electricity used in the industry has increased. When we look at the first period of 2020, the electricity used in the industry increased by 21.8% compared to the first period of 2019, and 1 kilowatt electricity averaged 58.6 cents. As we go through such a difficult and economic process, it is clear that production is important for our country to get out of this crisis, and to support our industries, to prevent unemployment, we need to support the industry while it is essential. In order to encourage production, interest loans need to be given more real support than interest loans. Friends, I'm afraid this lack of control, this share of credit, as long as there's this imposition, there's no way the bills are going to be reduced. For generations to come, we won't be able to leave a beautiful environment, a habitable nature, clean streams, lakes, fresh air to breathe. There's no solution? Of course I do, but not with today's power. There's no energy problem in our country, there's no energy management problem. Those who are the source of the problem cannot be the answer to the problem. We need to start a clean, honest chapter in energy. I salute the General Assembly with the desire to reach clean energy as soon as possible.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0472par0185	Mr. Goldstone, thank you for your understanding, and we wish you all the best.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0473par0186	Mr. President, I'd like a word of procedure, sir, not of content, but of procedure.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0474par0187	No, then...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0473par0188	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0475par0189	Mr. Special, the speeches...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0474par0190	We'll give you the answer, yes.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0473par0191	It's not an answer. It's a procedure, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0474par0192	There's nothing wrong with the procedure, there's no problem with the procedure.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0476par0193	You don't decide, the president decides.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0473par0194	I'm not saying anything to the content, sir, but I have an objection to the procedure.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0477par0195	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0473par0198	Mr. Secretary, it's Thursday, December 10, 2020, we're in Parliament, and you'll hear it's opened: Mr. MPs, we're going to talk about the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Accounting Law Proposal of 2019. Commission? He's in position. Government? In its place. The talks begin. What this means is that if you are not present in the only law proposed by the executive once a year -- in accordance with the new Constitutional Law, meaning the regime, and despite our objections -- there will be no talks. However, it is a process in which one third of the legislature -- or the president's presence -- was opened by the Constitution, and by the relevant Articles of the Civil Code -- is sufficient for a third of its presence here before the vote, in case of our request.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0477par0201	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0473par0202	So if you're not in session, even if you're out of your seat, we can't even continue the session, it's possible for fellow lawmakers to go out. Therefore, you must perform this task to observe the session carefully, to answer the questions asked, and then to exercise that right. The reminder was so right, so legitimate, that there was confusion, that a servant of God wasn't listening. However, while we were always defending the parliamentary system... our ministers had been members of the parliament before, passing through these lines -- except for the exceptions -- they had a tremendous respect for each and every member of this nation... for their knowledge of the Constitution, the Civil Code, and for the nation that chose them.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0477par0204	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0473par0205	I'm finishing it, Mr. President. I'm finishing it, sir. We've come across a desecration of authority, not directly from the nation, but from the appointment of someone elected by the people, and from the political and other aspects of this House, which has been seen in several ministers of ours before, that we can't accept, that we can't refuse. What we're asking you to do is to listen carefully, take notes of our MPs -- no matter what party -- until you've been promised -- including response rights, bullying -- but it's an image that makes each and every one of us responsible for each and every one of us, even the one who talks and doesn't listen to each other. Against this constructive reminder, in your own way, I'm going to register this disrespectful attitude against members of the legislature, provided you don't repeat it, provided you don't repeat it. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0478par0209	We were talking about what the Hatibi said, discussing.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0473par0211	Did you get your word from the president? You'll get your word from the president.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0479par0212	If I can't speak without promises, neither should you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0473par0213	You can't talk to the president without a word.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0480par0214	But right now, you're talking out of turn.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0473par0215	He's going to take a stand with the president.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0480par0216	How can you talk without taking your word for it? Is that even a thing?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0473par0217	He'll take the president's word for it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0480par0218	Well, you don't take promises.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0481par0219	He told me about the procedure.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0482par0220	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0483par0222	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we've all just lived in public together in an institution. The real method problem is... why don't you listen to the real irregular approach of the deputy president of the group, without demanding a word from you, in an accusation against the ministers? That's the attitude and attitude. This is confirmed by Mr. Special. If there's irregularity, it's where the irregularity begins.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0482par0224	Complete.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0483par0225	Here to rest... it has been requested that the ministers listen to what the MPs say... to answer the claims of the prosecutor on the stand. I can't hear a noise; there's a noise; I can't hear it; there's a noise; I can't hear it. He made a statement saying he wanted to hear it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0484par0226	No noise. I warned you, don't make me say anything harder.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0483par0227	As you meet your demands on this matter, you do not see the effort at the point of meeting your demands in a irregular manner, but you're trying to make another meaning out of it. [Bravo] From the good parties!) The voices applaud (!) Yes, applaud your own irregularities, applaud your own impropriety.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0485par0229	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0483par0230	Finally, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0486par0231	You've earned the Nobel Prize, you've earned the Nobel Prize, God bless you!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0487par0232	Where's the poem? We're waiting for a poem and a poem.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0483par0233	Mr. President, valued MPs, what I'm saying is that everyone's duty, authority and responsibility are set in the Constitution, the Civil Code, and the relevant legislation. I respectfully announce that everyone should be careful in this matter, under the discretion of the High Council. My regards to all of you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0488par0236	Yeah, he'll take the president's word for it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0489par0237	Mr. Erim...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0490par0239	Mr. President, right now, here, the ministers are conferring among themselves on the witness' speech, and I'm listening. Our Deputy Minister is already here, the head of all ministries, the heads of the departments, everyone is listening here, trying not to leave any questions unanswered. In fact, I said a little bit, "If it doesn't grow, let's leave them in writing." There's nothing about it, it's for the country to do something better, it's for the lighting, there's no blame on it, there's no ulterior motive, there's no ulterior motive in it, there's no ulterior motive in the opposition, we've found it, we've found it, we've found it, we've found it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it! it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it. it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it. it, we've got it, we've got it! it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0488par0240	Shoot the horny, not the system.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0491par0241	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0492par0242	Just a moment, dear friends. Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0491par0245	The main issue is the system itself, rather than the ministers. When they come from the sky, they act like they're ignoring the existence of the National Assembly, and instead of blaming themselves, they blame the system. But there's one more thing, see? In position, Commission? When you used his statement, when our first speaker began, both ministers were absent, and both ministers were absent. However, it's a human thing, it can be delayed, it's possible; we've tolerated it; but as our second speaker continues to talk -- it can be a minute, of course, people can ask each other questions -- I had to warn them that from the moment they started, they never listened to the floor, and I had to warn them that they didn't. And no hard feelings, no hard feelings, it was just a sincere warning, and you'll get that right. Don't come out here and say something like that like a teenager.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0493par0247	You're the teenager, dirty!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0492par0248	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0494par0249	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0495par0250	Mr. President, what the Hati said just now is not an acceptable statement; the last move is the expression of the word he said. I'm returning this to him. What you're doing is a teenager move.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0496par0252	We don't respect the Minister who doesn't respect the House.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit05spe0497par0253	I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0497par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Nuclear Organising Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account MIDDLE DETECTIVE AND EARCH GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2019 Central Management Predictable Account ÜRKEY ATOM INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Occupational Qualification Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Occupational Qualification Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account EVLET PERSONEL PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 The commission is in place. We continue the talks on behalf of the Good PARTY Group in the third round. It's Mr. Aylin's turn to be brave. Here you go, Mr. Brave. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0498par0047	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Family, Department of Labor and Social Services' budget for 2021. Yeah, it's 2021. Last year, the whole world came into the new year with great hopes, and, you know, there's a thousand versions of the world, and now we're living it. There are some things that can't be foreseen, and the inescapable are actually discussed, and the statesman is the man who has to see ahead of him. No one could have predicted that the nightmare of the 21st century would be Covid-19, yes, but states do not immediately say that they are dying. And if you are the state that has to be prepared and prepared for all kinds of dangers and have taken precautions, and you didn't predict that this disease would come to us on March 11th, because we predicted and warned you on this bench, and now we say that Turkey can't be ruled well. The question is: The incident of good governance and bad governance is measured by what the general public really feels. So if the people in one country are satisfied with their daily life; if they have peace, quietness; if the people in the country are not oppressed by their livelihood; if they are able to live without poverty; if they are able to live without poverty; if there are no millions in one country; if justice is well distributed in one country; if the gates of the state are open to all the people in the country; and those who are in the country, with the consent of the people in one country, use their power for their own interests, not for their friends, for their relatives, for their own, for their own, for their own, for their own, for the people. The result is whether the people are pleased or not, this is the event, and this is the answer to the question, "Is that country well managed?" You can't please everyone, yes, but there's an event called "conventional wisdom" - the common sense of public opinion. If the public's pulse -- the public's -- is functioning and unafraid, you won't have any trouble holding the pulse of the people. Three of them are very important; one is politics, one is media, and one is voluntary. If they're functional, even if people aren't too full, they can be a little bit, a little bit satisfied when they're alive. I mean, there are other things that are just as important to people's happiness as bread. I mean, people need to be full, but they also need to be comfortable, and they need to feel safe looking into the future, and they need to have faith in their government, in their country, in themselves. Here, today, unfortunately, all of this has been damaged. We're talking budgets, we're gonna sit on a curve and talk straight. Can you deny that now, out of the blue, millions of our people have lost their jobs? Can you say it didn't happen? There are official government figures. Now, is that good? Did the depression in Turkey arise because these people work? Or these people are out of work, and they're out, so why isn't it over, depression, if they're working, if that's why they're out? So the number of job seekers has increased by 2.5 million in two years, Dear Minister. Now, if the crisis was financial, it would have been very unpleasant in Turkey for so long and for so many parts of the country, and the public is complaining, and we're going to go around the field, the tradesman, the farmer, the citizen, everyone who complains. You cannot say that the people are pleased. I'm here to address these complaints to the Minister about his own ministry. The Ministry of Labour and Social Security, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy were two separate ministries, gathered them under one roof with a presidential decree, so that they could live together happily. Now, Mr. Secretary is my kind, so I don't want to be unfair to him, but he does as a woman. He's been called, trusted, and almost half the budget is tied to him. Okay, well, it can't be done, so the system is broken; it doesn't work; he can't do it anyway. What I'm going to say to him here, as a woman, as a person, I'm going to apologize, but I'm going to say it all, and I'm not going to stay down. Now, the wound of the economic failure of your powers in society is no longer working; the hole is large, the patch is small; the precious friends are going to gangrene; the wound, the gangrene, it's going to work. Our women, our young, our disabled, our elderly, we face with you as outcasts of economic and social life because you don't have a vision of policy development that will allow them to join society permanently; I'm sorry, help is okay, but when you can't provide instruments and tools that will allow our citizens to participate in economic life, there are millions of people who are dependent and dependent on aid as unproducing individuals. They're complaining about it. With deepening poverty, the helpless are expanding. If the number of people who have been given help is increasing, it means we've become so poor. Now, you get up -- and you brag about it -- and you say, "Well, we've been able to help so many people. This social aid balloon is growing, and as it grows, it's getting harder to tap into plans and projects that will increase employment and make it possible to participate in economic life, and that's a vicious cycle that you've created between welfare and work, that's what you've come up with. Now, in this way, you can develop models that will enrich the concept of working from home, working flexiblely, for our citizens with special circumstances. For example, encouraging employers to employ disadvantaged groups would be a solution. In public planning, project and participation, you can target the employment of our citizens in this group. And the help in our citizens' pockets is no longer enough, because so many money markets have played and gone, everything has gone, and that's not enough help. You've put the country in an inflation and money jam, that's what this is about. Now, look, we're not against help. I have spent a great deal of my life in the Republic of Turkey with a statesman who provides health for the elderly, the unemployed, the disabled, the women, the green card, so of course I'm not against it, but the logic of help is different. If you're a social government, you'll help, but it's not a social government that makes everyone helpless, so it's not gonna happen. It's the same vision that there's an industry in a Turkey that needs needle-to-rope, and investments in all kinds of investments and investments that don't need the country in the first place, while they're being made, you don't have it today. Now, there's a serious need for reform in this area today, and unfortunately, that approach is nowhere near the 2021 budget you're offering us. The result is we're complaining, Mr. Secretary. We complain on behalf of our young people. We're filing a complaint on behalf of the disabled. We complain on behalf of our women who die every day. And we ask you on their behalf, on the first day. What's the budget for, what's the budget for? Now, this budget is a budget that has no vision of reform, no structural problems to solve, and this budget, the budget to maintain the same order. That's the budget for maintaining your order. We ask: What solution does the Strategic Development Office, which has a $35 billion budget, provide for this chronicized employment problem? That's what we're asking. Let's get to social services. To whom do you hand over your property to certain associations, to the foundations? It raises the question to those who are a little bit involved. We don't find it right in terms of intermediaries and unresolved public investment, unreachable resources, unreachable aid to which citizens and public resources are not available, and the enjoyment of public resources out of the budget, in terms of controlability and accountability. He's in such a state that, in order to do business with the government, it's a prerequisite to secretly assist some of the fellow foundations. You know what the worst part of this is? Well, he's been taken for granted, so he's agreed to it, now he's an investor. That's a lot of hearing in public bids. Now, those investors can't raise their voices and complain, maybe to keep their jobs going, but we're complaining on their behalf, Mr. Secretary. We're complaining on their behalf. You have some serious irregularities with aid, you need to fix yourself. For example, more than 100,000 people who receive disability pensions, even though they have no disability reports in either 2018 or 2019. There are important reports, claims that these names are the names of the AK PARTI district, the district agencies to the Ministry of State, the provincial authorities. Explain them, who are they? Let's get their names out in the open. Now, public benefit programs, other programs, are said to have been taken from the backup list without a theory, by a partner, by a relative, and explain that. What about the social security system that has a deep problem of sustainability at the very beginning of existing structural problems? The system gives billions of lira per year, and the explanations are being completed from the treasure. Transfers to the social security system from the budget are 196 billion in 2019, compared to 4.5 per cent of the non-national. It's over $200 billion for 2020. This hole is as big a hole as the interest debt for the budget, the do-and-do guarantees. A realistic, rights and freedom reform is needed to close the SGC budget deficit. You can't overcome this problem by creating EYT victims and by the practices that have deprived our citizens under 25 and over 50 of their rights to social security, reporting and severance. For a healthy system, four insured people need to retire to one, and the European average is close to four. In Turkey, in 2002, you haven't increased that rate from August 2, 2020 from 1.77 to 2002 to 2020. You haven't increased it to more than 1.8 years. So you know what? You know, when you guys took over crisis country, the crisis with you was a continuity, the crisis never ended, we're under constant crisis. Now, the biggest problem here is the lack of record and employment problem. This data shows that during your 18 years of power, you haven't had enough employees on record and you haven't created enough jobs. TÜİK July 2020 says 32.7 per cent for unregistered employment in our country, which is much higher than ILO data, but look, it's less than 20 per cent in many European countries, and less than 10 per cent. If only our off-the-book employees were registered, you'd take it up to 3/3, and every year you'd save the budget from billions of loads. We're having trouble maintaining the social security system without an elderly population problem, and the crows are no longer laughing at your efforts to show that unemployment has not increased by reducing the number of employees and changing the definition of unemployment. Yes, despite this setting, unemployment is 10.8 per cent on July 2018; 13.8 per cent on July 2019. Look, I'm not telling you this year because you're going to say "pandem." You've put record unemployment levels in the history of the Republic in this country, and in whatever wisdom it is in the pandemic period, you've put too much morale in the settings, and unemployment has dropped to 13.4 percent, is that good? Now, the large-defined number of unemployed people that need to be looked at here are the unemployed who, you might say, have given up looking for jobs because they've lost hope. In July 2018, the large number of unemployed was 6 million, 8.5 million in July 2020, 23.8 per cent, 16. Also, free leave, which appears to be employed because of the pandemic, is 34.5% friends, including short work grant programs. So we have a structural employment problem, we have a very low entrepreneurship capacity, you can't establish a bond between employment and education. You haven't been given the required level of vocational education and labour market needs, and you've caused unemployment and empty employment positions. I mean, they don't like work. You know, you're the reason, you're the reason. Our college grad student, who's out of work, who can't be appointed, health workers, teachers, geologists, if I try to say this list here -- children write every day -- I can't, I won't be able to, I won't be able to, I won't be able to, I won't be able to, I won't be able to. In the last four years, 404,000 of our citizens have left the country and fled. That's why they're here, and those of us who don't have the job are complaining, and those who can't, we're complaining about you on all of their behalf. You have another mistake in employment policies, we can't tell you. You went out of business policy for years, turned to subcontractors, then purchased 4/B to run subcontractor jobs. The people of 4/B have fallen into a position, they can't go anywhere else, they get divorced, they don't get married anymore. There are close to 400,000 employees under 3 plus 1 who can't get to normal status, and they're all complaining. The transition from subcontractor to 4/D is also very troubling. The subcontractors in the OSCE were not recruited. Our workers don't get their rights. On behalf of the contractors, on behalf of 4/B and 4/D, we complain on behalf of our miners, Mr. Secretary, we complain. What's it all about? To our problem that gets deeper every day, this poverty. For a family of four, the hunger limit is about 2,500 liras, poverty is 8,000 liras, 43 percent citizens are living on minimum wage in this country, but they're not getting along, I said, because it's common to say that in Europe, between 5 and 15 percent, you've starved them. With all these unemployed people, the minimum wage is $2.324, which you're offering us, and we're managing you. We're complaining on behalf of minimum wagers. Half of our 20 million insured employees are below the hunger line. A total of 8 billion, the remaining 30 billion loads were put into the unemployment benefit fund, which means the worker's money is already being given to the worker. Why are we like this when other countries explain economic support packages worth 10 billion euros? Because of bad economic management and waste, that's all. Your low-pay policies haven't created the job you're aiming for, the premium incentives for employers. According to EUROSTAT data, we have the lowest purchasing power in Europe, and 68 per cent of the population is in debt today. We're pressing charges against you on behalf of all those in debt, Mr. Secretary. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Poverty has increased social problems, crime has increased; violence has increased to women, children, animals, increased drug use; we complain on their behalf. As for the economy, with low wages, the economy doesn't spin and it doesn't create new jobs. Therefore, poverty brings new poverty. Here, we've told you before, don't cut bonuses and taxes from employees for the regular wage; fix the employer's $3,458 lira without being charged to the employer, and let the minimum-payer get $3,000. But you didn't take it; we're complaining. A very important group of people currently struggling with poverty, pensioners, and citizens living in retirement. As of August 2020, half of our pensioners, who have reached 13.1 million, receive a salary of less than $2,000. The number of pensioners and job seekers was less than a million when you arrived, five million today. Is that acceptable when people are tested with hunger in their comfort zone? I'm asking you, I'm asking all of you. Our retirement citizens are complaining that the law is being run backwards. We have hundreds of thousands of citizens who have paid their 10,000-day bonuses and can't retire at a young age. The state says you're young, you can't retire. The employer says you're old, you can't work. Take them out of purgatory, solve the problem of the YIT. sin for the people, sin for the people; people to die, people to die; not to complain, but to tell them every day. We complain on behalf of the people whose rights have been denied, Mr. Secretary. And our tradesman has been bleeding ever since you stopped coming down the street. They're all alone in their pandemic, in debt. If they sold all their goods, they'd only have half their debts. They were condemned to poverty, and before the pandemic, they were already in debt. The total debt of 560,000 tradesmen before the pandemic is 40 billion liras. A million and a half of our tradesmen in Pandemide used $67 billion in loans. So, the repayment period started, what's he gonna pay for it, what's he got to pay for it? Stop them, let them pay later; at least do it if you're a social government. Poor shoplifter. We said, "Give me $24,000 for six months." We said, "Do it." We said, "Do it." You don't do it, you don't do it, you should do it, you should do it, Mr. Secretary. You didn't even put them on a $100 billion economy shield, delay the payments. We've got 1,800,000 tradesmen, all complaining, and we're all complaining about you. As for the child laborers. According to TÜIKIK, about 720,000 of our children work during the school year. The number is much higher in seasonal farm workers and off-the-books. 34.4 percent of our working children can't continue to study, they're under very bad conditions, and 1.3% of our working children are injured and injured where they work. According to Labor Health and Occupational Safety Council data, you have also caused us a shame, such as the death of 419 child laborers recorded between 2013 and 2019. It's a shame, I'm complaining about those kids, I'm really complaining about all of you. According to NGOs, 23,976 workers lost their lives in 17 years and 78,000 workers were unable to function. In the first ten months of 2020 1,736 workers died. It's an accident. You can't say it's an accident. If you're the government, you'll have to look at punishments when there's no control and no rules, and you'll do it. For our seasonal farm workers, we complain about occupational safety, transportation, health care, housing, all problems and every life that has been lost in thousands of workplace accidents. Since the outbreak of Covid-19, I've been sending greetings and greetings to our health workers, our heroic employees, all of them from here. Today, even as we speak, they have joined their lives at the beginning of their mission, working to save your relatives, all of us, our citizens. They've taken responsibility for all your negligence and they're not working, they're just dying. Over 40,000 of our paramedics were caught in the coronavirus and we lost 230 paramedics. They put their lives on the line, and if they lose their lives in the line of duty, let them be considered martyrs, and let their families be taken into account. On March 30th, we offered the law, we gave it first as a good party, and unfortunately, you didn't bring it up. Over and over again, Covid-19 should be considered a professional illness for our health workers. This is the most recent and necessary business security issue, Minister, and I beg of you. On behalf of all health workers, as a medic, I beg of you as his brothers. These people, they have to carry this burden, yes, we swore, we will do it, but you have to do what needs to be done for them, you have to do it, it has to be your biggest job, I beg you. Biologist Ali Sagittarius died the day he signed a retirement petition to take care of his 80-year-old father. Muharrem and Nuri Idiz, two brothers over there, just above Sinop. Brother Doctor, five days apart, they became doctors, and 15 days apart, two brothers succumbed to the coronavirus. Take a good look at the map, Mr. Secretary. Behind all of them, their parents and loved ones are crying. For you, the seas are blue, the leaves are green, the sun is yellow, but for their families, everything is pitch black and forever dark, Minister, forever dark. And our women, our poor women, facing the greatest injustice in our society. The problems they face are the problems that actually cause many systems, including the social security system, to be blocked. The idea of social gender inequality has been removed from your programs, from your reports since 2011, and you've erased the woman's name from your Ministry of Ministers. You have launched a discussion of the Istanbul Convention. The idea of her not being in public has been asked to dominate society. According to the World Economic Forum, the Global Gender Cliff Index of 2020, we ranked 136 degrees among 153 countries in Turkey with the economic participation of women and the equal of opportunity. We're the 136th, thanks to you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0499par0083	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0498par0084	Joining the labour force is 32 per cent by 2020, employment by 27 per cent. The difference between men and men is 40 percent, between men and women. Women are 19 years and 20 years behind men during average working life in Turkey. He's two years behind in training. In terms of income justice, each woman is paid 43 liras for every 100 liras in her pocket, and the budget for a program called the Women's Strengthenment Programme is 424,945,000 lira. We have a budget of 19 million, 445 thousand liras, 41, 443,000 women in our country; for God's sake, will you strengthen her by spending $10 a woman? You're going to solve all these problems at $10 a head? Is it good for all women, about a tenth of the presidential budget, to strengthen our 40 million women? Another dimension of gender inequality is social problems; all things like old, disabled, child care are above women, nursing homes, daycare centres are inadequate, and if you want to strengthen women, you have to start from here. The world does it, Europe does it. On behalf of all our women, dead women, unemployed women, women who can't boil soup for their children, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0500par0088	Hail, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0498par0089	Yeah, violence against women is our biggest problem. It's not understandable why you don't apply 6284. Your National Action Plan to Fight Violence Against Women has failed, and we complain on behalf of children without a mother. Those boys, our kids, they had to have a good family to be good. According to TÜİK data, we have 1,22,000 children in Turkey who don't go to school in the age of education, who have dropped out. In 2019, 57.6% of our children were subjected to injuries, 15 percent to sexual abuse, 11 percent to crimes against family order. Our homeless street kids are beggars. I'm asking, what are you doing for them, Mr. Secretary? And I'm complaining that those kids can't, Mr. Secretary, on their behalf. According to our young women... 2018 Population and Health Research, 14.8 percent of women between 20 and 24 years of age were married before they were 18 years old and 2 percent before they were 15 years old. The tears that flow from all their eyes are breaking our hearts and we complain on their behalf, Mr. Secretary. We ask: What do you do for the disabled, Mr. Secretary, for the protection and development of children? Because of these obstacles put in front of us by the state... the National Malfunctional Data System does not cover half of our disabled.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0501par0094	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0498par0095	Thank you. 6 per cent for private companies in Germany, France with disabled quotas 15-20; 3 per cent for businesses with more than 50 employees. It's an embarrassment. Save us from this shame, Mr. Secretary. How are these people going to get along with their current disability pensions and get what they need? Unacceptable. In one of the three sentences, we've got veterans you've been talking about... differentializations in the honorary salary attached to our combat veterans. Our Korean and Cyprus veterans must all be paid the same amount of honour regardless of income and employment. And on the other hand, even though he was injured in the fight against terrorism, the law says that those who are not disabled can't take advantage of any rights. There's a problem with coordination in privatisation and pricing. I'm sure you're all very sensitive about this, so let's get this over with. I know you're sensitive about this, too; our honor, our glory, our martyrs, our veterans, let's not cause any of them any trouble. And I say, we've offered solutions to these issues. You, come make these suggestions, but if you can't do it, we'll come and do it, we'll get better, dear friends. I call upon our nation from here: all shall pass and we shall be healed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I put him through?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0502par0102	Finish it, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0498par0103	As Nazim said: ▪ Patients, brothers and sisters, You're gonna be okay. The pain, the pain will go away. It'll come down like a soft, warm summer evening, Comfort from heavy, green branches. The sick, my brothers, A little more patience, a little more stubbornness. It's not death waiting behind the door, it's life. Behind the door, the world chirping, You're gonna get up, you're gonna get out of bed. The taste of salt, bread, sun You'll discover it all over again. Brothers, sick people, We're not lemons, we're not candles, We're human, thank God. Thank God we know, To add hope, I want him to stand up and push me. The sick, my brothers, You're gonna be okay. The pain, the pain will go away, A soft, warm summer evening will come down, Comfort from heavy green branches. I wish our budget to be blessed. Better budgets need to be made for the citizens of this country. That's from the paramedics... In final words, Minister, take another look at the map, please enlighten these dark blues, will you? Consider them martyrs, call them occupational hazards. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0503par0134	Mr. Imam Hussein Flitz... Here you go, Mr. Flitz.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0504par0137	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our good PARTI group regarding the budget for the Occupational Compulsory Facility at the 2021-Year Centre Management Budget Law Proposal and the State Staff's Office at the Central Management Computational Law Proposal of 2019. I salute the High Council. We've just received word that two of our soldiers were killed and six of our soldiers were injured in the attack by terrorists in Operation Peace Fountain area. I curse the terrorists, I pray for God's mercy to our martyrs, and for our wounded soldiers to heal quickly. I'm sorry for our loss. Dear lawmakers, the Association of Professional Qualification is an institution established in 2006 under the integration of the European Union, and its goal is to do vocational standards and competence studies in order to establish a basis for the quality of working life, knitting and common education curriculum. The level of competency on the standard's published profession is determined by the European Union in line with the levels of competency and the European Qualification Framework. The European Framework of Qualification provides the basis for 8 levels where the minimum common knowledge, skill and competencies must be defined at every level. These are classified in terms of studies, starting at level 1 elementary school and studying at level 8 Ph.D.s. Construction, metal, automotive, energy, electricity, electronics, textiles and transportation sectors were obliged to obtain competency documents in 81 jobs. The standard of profession is usually prepared by sector representatives, and documentation is made by private institutions, which are authorized by the Employment Agency and established for this purpose. These documenting jobs have become an industry, which is sought after by the cost of the examination and documentation from the Unemployment Insurance Fund. There are 242 institutions, and the prices they put in for the same profession are different, and apparently there's competition amongst them. I hope they're doing their duty seriously, in terms of professional ethics. However, I don't understand why expenses are being paid from the unemployment fund. Dear lawmakers, we, as a nation, have actually established a professional standard and competence system with the Abyssinian organizations and guilds centuries ago, but we have forgotten these institutions because of the lack of modern education, of degeneration, of degeneration, of merit. What comes to us is from Us, and what comes to us is the truth and the patience of His Lord Evran. We are the ones who have worked with reason and morality. We have not followed their words, nor have we observed their words, nor have we measured them wrongly, nor have we observed their warnings. In the week of the Abyssinics, we celebrate, and speak with gracious words, that we may emulate the Harmony that we have forgotten. Dear lawmakers, it has been reported that 509 national professional standards and professional qualifications have been prepared so far and have been given 922,000 professional qualifications, but how many of them have been employed, and at what levels of competency have they been given? We'd like to know that. Dear lawmakers, the goal of all these studies is to provide jobs for our young people and to contribute to the economy. In our country, the number of unemployed is close to 10 million, the number of young people between 15 and 34 years of age is 2,800,000. The number of young college graduates is already over 1 million unemployed. Of the four students who have studied at the university, one is unemployed. It's not good for people who find jobs. One of our young people complains: "I graduated from Istanbul University, I was a printer, I was a meat loafer, I was a mover, I was a miner, I was a baker's worker, I was a laundry worker." Another teenager: I studied machine engineering, and I've been looking for work for six months. By the way, I've started paying off my KYK debt, or rather, I haven't been able to pay it. The main debt has increased by increasing interest on $15,000, 380 lira monthly payments. 3.300,000 young people have still failed to pay their student loans, and about 300,000 of them have been legally processed. I'm afraid there's still no cure for that. As young people continue to look for work, psychological problems begin, becoming a sociologic problem, and society is driven to depression. With every passing month, savings are running out, consumer credits and credit cards are struggling to survive. There are even more problems for job seekers this time: they face abuses by taking advantage of financial weakness, along with problems such as job security, job security, workplace abuse, not getting a raise, not getting a promotion. Dear lawmakers, the minimum wage detection commission is continuing its work. Minister, this year I wish the minimum wage would be determined by the compromise of all parties. You said. Reminding you of this promise, Mr. President-in-Chief's proposal for minimum wage: paying taxes and cuts by the state and the gross salary for a net amount of $3,000, allowing employers to remain constant for each minimum wage, allowing employers to relax and increase employment on this occasion. Minister, with the increase in rent, food, electricity, natural gas prices, give the minimum wage of people who have suffered a great deal of damage and who have reached 43 percent of all our employees, their human lives, and let our people breathe. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to address a problem for the citizens of the Church. In 2016, we have local terrorists from Syria who were killed and injured by missiles launched by ISIS, NYD/PKKK. I offered them the law in 2018, so that they could benefit from the benefits of the families of the martyrs and the families of the veterans. The opposition's proposals of the law don't come up, unfortunately, but they do. I'd like to offer our Minister's sensitivity to martyrs and veterans to his knowledge, confident that he will also show to the relatives of the martyrs and veterans of the Church. Dear lawmakers, knowing that the family has a great power that changes society and transforms society both sociological and economically, the basis for our children being raised as qualified people begins in the family. The child's personality develops within the family, the child learns in the toilet house, learns honesty or lying, sacrifice, or lying, waste, or saving. Mr. Secretary, you're head of a Ministry that starts with a family; you have a very important and sacred duty, a heavy burden on your shoulders. After all, we must live up to our values, the television series that dynamites our family's structure, the ones that drive our young to violence must be blocked. We expect more of your efforts to protect our young people from disease, such as substance abuse. Also, what I want to say is that in a variety of ways, social benefits to needy people are important and should be done. But in doing so, it should not be forgotten that giving work, creating employment, is better to teach fish than to give fish. It is essential for a healthy generation of people to leave their homes to go to work every morning, to experience the pleasure of working, sweating, and to enjoy the psychology of their parents and children. Dear MPs, in 2019, the final account will be discussed by the State Chief of Staff, the State Planning Agency, the Treasury Undersecretary, the Refik Saydam Institute of Hhifzizah. On July 9, 2019, a year after the Act No. 703 came into effect, the door was locked and assigned to the Department of Labor. Dear lawmakers, the state exists only with its institutions. He prides himself on the oldness of every government institution. Why? Because state institutions are the government's memory of the activities. You're erasing our memories by shutting them down; it's definitely not okay, it's not okay. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0505par0154	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0504par0155	As I end my words, I wish our budget of 2021 to the best of the year, with all due respect to the High Council.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0505par0157	The speeches on behalf of the Good PARTY group are complete. Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0506par0161	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been on the side of a number of debates by taking comments on the issues concerning the three members of the group since the session began today. Here we, the National Movement Party, have also not taken any promises because we do not deal much. I want to focus on the budget. If the ministers will excuse me before we speak, I'd like to submit a few questions to answer their speech. I'd like to ask the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services first. The headline, which has not been respected in Turkey, has dropped its unemployment rate. First of all, let me say that the unemployment rate has dropped to 12 percent. When we add those who have no hope of finding a job, the 8.5 million is the absolute number of unemployment in this country.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0505par0164	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0506par0165	Given the recent effects, there are 12 million 345 thousand unemployed as of July 2020, as well as those who have been employed and are not at work. In this sense, unemployment is already past 30 per cent. Will you continue to deny the unemployment problem by tampering with TİK data? If you accept this fact, my question is, how are you going to employ in a society with more than 12 million unemployed? My second question: does your Ministry of Education have a cost calculation? If so, would you share the account with us? Minister, as of 2015, I have a chart showing the number of people involved in this coverage in general health insurance, which has increased every year. As of the end of 2019, nearly 11.5 million people have reached this number, and their income is less than one-third of the minimum wage, so almost 11 per cent of the country's population needs to be paid health care by the state.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0505par0168	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0506par0169	As of September 2020, 10 million 239,70 people are covered by general health insurance. The income of only 2 million 433, 997 is more than one third of the minimum wage per month. In the home where 7 million, 805,000 people live, general health insurance premiums are covered by our government because the minimum wage is less than one-third. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Secretary: According to the monthly statistics of the Social Security Agency, the number of people who were paid general health insurance premiums by the state was 8.2 million in August and 7.8 million in September. Last year, this number exceeded 9 million levels. We want to know why this decline has occurred in the growing unemployment of the present period, the diminishing employment, the excessive decline in the purchasing power of the household.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0505par0171	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0506par0172	Why is there a difference between 1.2 million people? These people's prosperity levels can't have gone up, so what's the difference? Is our government giving up support for its citizens during this difficult time? This painting is not proof, we want to ask if it is evidence of weakness in supporting our citizens. Despite the fact that you've blocked our access to the right data, we know that increasing unemployment, reduced employment, decline in purchasing power, rising debt graphics of the household and so on are the most important factors that threaten the family's institution. This economic crisis is not only a threat to the family institution, but it is a major cause of domestic violence and murder. The number of families is growing, while the number of divorces is increasing. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's over, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0507par0177	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0506par0178	Although the number of married couples increased from 545,000 in 2018 to 541,000 in 2019. In 2019, 36 per cent of divorces took place within the first five years of marriage, while 21 per cent took place between 6 and 10 years of marriage. My question, Mr. Secretary, is the ministry capable of protecting the family and preventing domestic violence and strategy? What steps will you take to protect the family institution from economic violence in this difficult situation? I applied for Mr. Energy Minister's information during the day, thank you, he gave me some information. In light of that information, I'd like to ask you a question: the EPDK directly reflects the expenses we're talking about, and what's more, the rent on a building that's being rented as part of the power distribution service, even a rental car fare, is costing citizens. It's an open multiplication system. The Ottomans had a multithesis system.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0507par0181	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0506par0182	What is this multiplication system? The state tells its citizen, its subject, that he will receive a tax of 10 liras, that he will give the government 10 liras, that he himself would go and collect 20 liras, that he would profit. Your power has created countless multitaskings, Mr. Secretary, through this means. It's the same with the bridge, the same with the highway, the same with the airway; the same with natural gas, the same with electricity, the same with your practices; your multiplications are really exploiting our nation. Look, I've told you today, so the numbers may be very small, that representation, the billing of the catering costs, it's really pissing the hell out of the city. Don't test this citizen's patience so much. The EPDK can't get out of this with covert, unexplained public announcements. He must openly and clearly share this plundering order with our people and clarify it. Every penny that comes out of the public's pocket has to be shared with the public. You'll say it's not new, it's already existed. You said it today. The problem here isn't before or after.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0507par0185	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0506par0186	As a citizen, people are now in need of a dollar to buy bread. Naturally, the public feels compelled to account for a penny that comes out of a citizen's pocket. On behalf of our nation, I'd like to ask you how these expenditures are related to the conduct of electricity distribution and supply services. I mean, what does electricity and distribution have to do with the cost of catering, the rent of luxury buildings, Mr. Secretary? What's the point of buying a citizen's electricity service, raising these expenditures by 7 percent this year, including invoices? I'd like to ask what is the explanation for the fact that when you're on a citizen's business, you'd rather be inflating bills, putting the invoice of bad fighting with pandemics back into the citizens indirect ways. And there are coal plants without filters, Minister. There was no extension on this issue, Parliament returned it to the President, refused, vetoed.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0507par0189	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0506par0190	But we see, Mr. Secretary, that we're wondering where the coal plant operators have come in when they've been warned to take environmental investments and necessary permits. Are these businesses filtered, Mr. Secretary? Since the EC PARTY Group applauds both the length of time and the duration of the non-filtration period, it would be helpful for the whole Parliament to know at the same time. Have these factories been improved that threaten public health at a high rate? Under what circumstances were these factories activated? Does your ministry plan and strategize towards renewable energy? We're wondering if the environmental and public health factors that have once again emerged in the pandemic will take you away from the primitive production of the industrial revolution, coal. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Nuclear Organising Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account MIDDLE DETECTIVE AND EARCH GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2019 Central Management Predictable Account ÜRKEY ATOM INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Occupational Qualification Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Occupational Qualification Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account EVLET PERSONEL PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2019
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0508par0230	Now, Mr. Abdurrahman is the first speaker on behalf of the National Operations Party Group. Here you go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0509par0233	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Gazi Parliament's esteemed MPs, our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources and the Energy Market Editing Agency (EPDK) on the budget of 2021, on behalf of our Nationalist Action Party Group. I hereby salute your grand delegation and the great Turkish nation watching over us on their television. We are going through a period when we witness many innovations in the field of energy supply, one of the essential elements of our lives. It has increased the importance of renewable energy, and alternative energy sources have become one of the priority issues in government's RD work. Turkey, too, has seriously focused on this issue and has sped up its work. About half of our electricity production, done by our local resources, is derived from renewable energy sources. As of the last quarter of the year 2020, electrical energy produces 29 per cent of our resources by hydroelectricity, 8 per cent by wind, 4 per cent by sun, 3 per cent by geothermal and 2 per cent by biochute. As of September 2020, Turkey's power of electricity power was 93,207 megawatts. It creates 29,790 megawatts of power, 11.313 megawatts based on local coal, 8.077 megawatts on wind energy, 1.515 megawatts on geothermal energy, 1.238 megawatts on biomass and waste heat, 6.361 megawatts on solar energy. By the end of September 2020, the total power of renewable facilities has reached 50.4 per cent of the total power of production facilities based on domestic and renewable resources, while the total power of production facilities has reached 62.54 per cent. In addition, as of September 2020, the amount of renewable production is 105.5 billion kilowatts in our production of 226.9 billion kilowatts, and its share in total production is 46.5%. The total amount of production from domestic and renewable sources is 137.9 billion kilowatts, and the total share in production is 60.8%. At the point of increasing energy diversity, domestic coal is also extremely important. Local coal comes as a source of energy that reduces dependence on oil and natural gas in the energy market, reduces external dependence in energy to a minimum, thus giving serious contributions to our economy. As of September 2020, the power of the coal-based power was raised to 11.313 megawatts. If we can't use our current coal resources in the next 50 years, we may risk losing its economic value and losing our resources underground. Given the external dependence on energy, the continuing efforts to supply natural gas from the Middle East, Central Asia, Africa, the East Mediterranean, the Black Sea and other potential sources are at the top of the issues we appreciate. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have reached all of our 81 counties, 559 districts, our town and 165 organised industrial areas, and the number of natural gas subscribers is 17 million today. It is among our wishes that other settlements outside these areas and our organised industrial zones would quickly get their natural gas. In addition, the Trans Adriatic Pipeline Project, which constitutes the European foot of the Southern Gas Corridor, suggests the geopolitical importance of our country, which further strengthens the strategic position of the 10 billion cubic metres of Azerbaijan gas per year to Europe. Starting with Russia, it is very strategic that one of the TurkishAkým natural gas pipelines will allow our country and the other 15.75 billion cubic metres of natural gas per year to reach Europe. In the Salt Lake Natural Gas Underground Storage Project, 700 million cubic metres of storage volumes have been achieved daily, and with the completion of the expansion project, a total of 5.4 billion cubic metres of storage and 80 million cubic cubic metres will be achieved in energy supply security. As part of our international law-based rights in the Eastern Mediterranean basin, we support the continued work of naval jurisdictions in the Mediterranean and Black Sea, in accordance with international law, to maintain our rights of sovereignty in our continental territory and to ensure that the rights and interests of the Turkish Cypriots as equal partners of the island are guaranteed by the rights and interests of hydrocarbons. On the other hand, our seismic research ships, Barbaros Iştin Pasha and Oruç Reis, continue to do detailed searches of our ships, the Fatih, the Law and the Yavuz. They are no longer ships, but banners of the Turkish nation. On 5 November 2020, we were all thrilled that our ship began drilling at the Turkali-1 well in the Sakarya gas field, and that the Lawship, which was delivered on 31 January 2020, had been modernised and left the Sterling Port of Mersin in the early months of 2021, would begin its activities in the Black Sea. Dear MPs, I'm afraid the year 2020 has been difficult for both the world and our country during the Covid-19 period. I'd like to point out that I have a debt of gratitude to all of our friends who work day and night so as not to disrupt the flow of energy, especially in order to prevent many services, especially health care. The Energy Market Editing Agency -- EPDK -- has passed a successful test for our country in this difficult pandemic process, taking every precaution to ensure that markets can function, fail, and our citizens can access natural gas and oil products, especially electricity. It is also important that the Energy Markets Business Corporation, EPIAŞ, is the first country in the region to set up a gas market with the Organised Toptan Natural Gas Sales Market in 2018. For this reason, it is our sincere desire that our country be a trading centre instead of a transit country for the European countries, with important projects such as TANAP and TurkAkum, in oil and natural gas. When we review the data published by the EPDK as of September 2020, we see 343 licenses in the natural gas market, including 72 decent distribution licenses. We also follow the work on the Future Natural Gas Market, which will be launched in 2021, as the National Movement Party. It is also very important that our country has become an important refinery hub for refrigeration with a capacity of 40 million tons annually. Also, when we look at energy market regulatory data, at the end of 2020, there are six refinery licenses, 77 distribution licenses, 34 transport licenses, 13 business licenses, 75 transport licenses, 93 storage licenses, 130 mineral oil licenses, 31 free user licenses, 67 export licenses, and 13.071 franchise licenses. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers will be able to become one of the few developed gas trade centers in Europe where gas produced in Europe will be put into international trade by organised gas markets in 2023, as the source discovered in the Danube-1 search area off Akçahum will be presented to the use of our citizens as the largest natural gas discovery in our history. According to energy market regulatory agency data, Turkey is the world's 16th largest LPG market. In reviewing the EPDK (EPDK) budget proposal for 2020, we're looking at a total of $2272 million in revenues from the electricity market, 53 million from the gas market, 140 million from the oil market, and 28 million from the LPG market. Again, according to the EPDK data, it is also estimated that it will generate $53m in additional revenues. In this context, it is understood that the EPDK total of the year 2021 was targeted at $323m,22,000, along with other revenues, rejections and returns. Dear President, precious lawmakers, when everyone following developments in the field of energy today listens to what we have expressed in our election statement, our leader will bear witness once again to the foreseeable political understanding of Mr. State Garden. Before the 2018 elections, he said: "Energy needs to be assessed at a maximum level of coal and renewable energy sources in order to reduce external dependence on raw materials, energy imports should increase supply security without harming resources and resource country, nuclear power plant projects must be completed quickly, energy supply should be carried out in an efficient way, without interruptions, with adequate understanding of environmental and sensitive understanding, with an approach to the development of advanced waste control and disposal, without harming human health and resource planning, with all kinds of energy consumption, with efficient energy supplies, with an efficient supply of energy supplies, with an efficient access to power supply, with efficient energy, with an efficient access to the energy sector, with an efficient energy sector, with an efficient energy sector, with a limited energy sector of the state, with an appropriate energy sector. Dear lawmakers, before I stop speaking, I'd like to address some issues regarding my constituency district, Antalya. Antalya is a city of tourism and agriculture. It contributes significantly to the country's economy in both sectors, but because of this epidemic period, there have been particularly problems in the tourism sector. I believe that with the support of our government, our Antalya will overcome this process and write a new success story in agriculture and tourism sectors. We have no doubt that support for the tourism industry will continue to increase over the next year. I'd like it to be known that we are prepared to support the measures and support of the National Movement Party. I would like to take this opportunity to pay a debt of gratitude to the owners: I would like to express my thanks to those who have gone through all of our efforts, especially because of their selfless efforts to gas all of our Antalya. Hopefully, the work of Korkukeli County will finally have its natural gas by the year 2021. Our Minister gave us this good news in 2019. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Precious Minister, are one of the most important cultural mushrooms in Turkey's district. More than 2,500 family enterprises, which have a large share in the total production in Turkey, are within the borders of our district, but there has been a serious struggle in the production of mushrooms due to the height of electricity costs in Kokureli district. In particular, it is a custom for our producers to use more electrical energy in the summer because they run air conditioning, to charge electricity that our culture fungus manufacturers use not on industrial electricity, but on agricultural operating tariffs. This will reduce the cost of our manufacturers' input, create a basis for the progress of the industry, allow our citizens to breathe more comfortably. Anthalian agriculture will certainly be affected if watering units are also eased in the use of electricity. In this context, the electricity used by our farmers in agricultural irrigation would be very appropriate to evaluate at the price of agricultural electricity.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0510par0254	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0509par0255	In this context, the price of electricity used by our farmers in agricultural irrigation should be reduced. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, once again I salute our Veteran Assembly, our esteemed MPs, and the great Turkish nation who are watching us at the head of their television.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0510par0258	Mr. Tamer Osmanakaoğlu... Here you are, Mr. Osmanakaoğlu.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0511par0261	Thank you, Mr. President. Peace be upon the great Turkish nation, whose heart beats together like one heart; and peace be upon the great assembly, which led the Battle of Salvation, which I am honoured to establish and to become a member of the republic; peace be upon us, 2,783 martyrs who watered the land of Karabag with holy blood. The land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the They've covered up the Karabul scar that hasn't been closed in 30 years. Their place is in Paradise. The blood that makes flags is the land that dies in its cause." All hail the souls of our martyrs who were martyred to make Azerbaijan land a homeland a century ago, who were the descendants of our Azerbaijan brothers in Baku Martyrdom. Just away from Turkey yesterday, our martyrs proudly watched the glorious march of the glorious Turkish soldier who had left Turkey, and their souls found peace. Hail to those who make this pride in their memory of the saints. Hail the great nightingale of Mount Karabağ. Hail the white tulips of Azerbaijan. Hail Karabağ, his honey, his old man, and his young man, who will grow up in his native land. Peace be upon Lacin, and Shusha, and Fuzuli, in Kerbecer. Hail to the glorious saga of our Azerbaijan brothers, and to the mighty soldiers. Peace be upon those who take account of those who set up the Turk. With these thoughts and feelings, I would like to begin by greeting the day of victory for our Azerbaijan brothers. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my National Movement Party Group to discuss the budgets of the esteemed Parliamentary Institution of Nuclear Editing and the Turkish Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency, the Mine Research Directorate, the General Directorate of Mines and Petroleum Affairs. The uncompromising implementation of our nation's national energy and mining policy, which our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources has set as a road map in recent years, also brings great gains for our nation. Currently, as part of the air geophysical imaging study, in 2020 there were 370,000 square miles of detailed data flights, almost as well as mining x-rays of the land. On the other hand, for the first time, we had mining fields abroad, and in Africa and Asia, eight mining fields with a total of 3,497 square miles [3,497 km]. The development of the boron mine, one of the most important mines for our country, is truly joyful. The steps of the mine fill the eye. The meat mine, which dominates 56 per cent of the world's boron market, continues to take steps at the point where it produces products and the boron mine is an alternative mine in many areas. We are also monitoring the transition process to high-tech boron products, and as a result of this, its high-profile, strategic importance, and its efforts to bring goods to market. In this context, it is a joy that the Bor Karbür Production Facility, which has an important place for our national defence, will soon come online, and that a strategically important product will be met with more domestic possibilities using domestic production lithium in the TOGG. It is known that in our country, 80 of the 90 types of mines, which are highly reciprocated in the world's trade, exist. It is important that 60 of these 80 types of minerals are being produced in our country and are expected to increase in the coming period. We also support the RD studies, which have been processed beyond the raw exports of some valuable mines, making it possible to release the added value as high-tech products. Dear lawmakers, given the technological advances of nuclear energy, which is of great importance as an alternative resource, our country's need is inevitable. We appreciate the commitment to have nuclear power plants that will boost energy supply security, reduce external dependence on energy, and meet our energy needs, one of the biggest factors affecting our economy. The completion of the first unit of Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant, which is under construction, will take place in 2023 and will crown the 100th year of our republic, a major step towards energy independence. Another important thing that we consider very important is that our graduate and graduate students are sent to advanced countries to study nuclear energy and to be allowed to participate in our country's studies after the training they receive. In the Black Sea, the greatest natural gas reserves of our history have been made entirely by national possibilities, and in 2023, natural gas will be offered to the use of our citizens. The results of success in domestic and renewable energy are also joyful. As of 2020, production facilities based on domestic and renewable resources have reached 62.54 per cent. In addition, as of September 2020, the total share of renewable energy production was recorded at 46.5%. Dear lawmakers, our geography has been home to the harshest energy struggle in recent years. The nations are competing with each other to ensure energy supply security and to meet energy needs, and countries are struggling relentlessly to meet their growing energy needs. One of the most important arguments of global politics is energy addiction, which leads to many events with political, social and economic consequences, but the absolute fact is that the imperial forces do not give up their greed at the expense of the so-called active actors of the civilized world at the expense of the rights of other nations. A group of people who shed blood to fill their barrels with oil, who deserve to take the lives of millions of innocents to satisfy their bloated appetites, who have almost bled their eyes out, has become mankind's greatest enemy. Under these conditions, Turkey's position has become more important than ever. The Turkish nation sees and perceives the determination to implement rational, national energy policies at all costs. This is exactly the will Turkey has expressed today, the stance of the Turkish nation with its state today. In recent years, the names of the heroic apostrophe, which has taken great steps with total domestic possibilities, has been implemented by national energy policies that will shape the future, and have made history into Turkish centuries, have re-existed on the blue country. The generation that carried the blessed relic to the horse has written an epic legend on it. Barbaros Hayreddin Pasha, our seismic research vessel has embroidered our moon-star flag for the blue country. The fast Reis has made us all proud to strike the Turkish seal in the Mediterranean waters with the mighty presence and work of our ship. We are all excited by the discovery of the Black Sea in red and white, with the discovery of natural gas that has taken place on our ship's conquest, the Yavuz drilling ship signing for the Turkish nation in the vast blue. It has to be known that the Republic of Turkey has the power to defend its rights despite all obstacles against its institutions. Neither the early rooster of Europe will stop before this power, nor Egypt, nor any other puppet state, where the coup head is dominant. Every account that targets the national and spiritual values of the Turkish nation will be struck by the conquest of the Turkish nation, every fictional game will be broken by the Turkish nation's spirit of unity and unity, and the tree of the one who dares to sever our branch will be torn from the root. Because the front against them is a great Turkish nation, one breath, one wrist, one heart. Every value we stand for is the cornerstone of our future, the guarantee of every goal we value. Therefore, the Turkish state is determined not to compromise its sovereignty, while the Turkish nation is sworn to crown its future. We know and believe that the century will be the century of Turk, the good news of Turk, and the sound of the great Turkish nation's footsteps. Even though there are those who don't want to hear it, even though there are those who don't want to see it, who are willing to disparage their country more than foreign mission owners, the truth will not change. Instead of being an interpreter of our nation's emotions, those determined to be the voice of foreign owners will lose. Political jugglers whose consciences are blackened, their hearts stoned, black propaganda extras will take their place in the history dump without even remembering their names. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been the embodiment of justice throughout their history, the pole of dignity, and the defender of rights. It's about the heroics, the epics, the pyrup pages of our glorious past, the greatest evidence of it. Even today, if there are those who want to ignore the interests of the Turkish nation, if there are those who are trying to seize the rights of the Turkish state and its friends, our proposal is to look at history. Of course, it's the same blood that boils in the veins. This is the same soul that is ready to flow through our chests. Without a doubt, it is the voice of the Turk, who has reached from the depths of history to the present. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish you the best of our budget. I give thanks to every member of our national energy army, which is the unwavering foundations of the future's powerful and leading country, the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0512par0278	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0511par0279	In the words of our leader, Mr. State Gardener, the geographical property and character of our country, our social and moral values that we piled up on top of each other, our economic relations, cultural power, and military power, are the basis of our policy in this geography. No one will be able to change that policy. The subject of our politics is the nation, and our resolve is at the height of our determination not to give up time to those who are trying to conquer fear. I salute your delegation with these feelings and thoughts. As a final note, I pray to God for the mercy of our fallen martyrs in the traitorous terror attack in the Battle of the Fountain of Peace, and for the immediate healing of our wounded. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0513par0283	Mr. Sefer Aycan... Here you go, Mr. Aycan.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0514par0286	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our National Party for Action on the budget of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services, and I salute you. Working is the basic right according to our Constitution. There are other contributions to the work, as well as the economic benefits of one person, to life, to produce, to prove himself, to gain status. For him, working is the right for every human being, and that's why we support employment-enhancing policies, jobs and professions as the National Movement Party. We have made it clear that we will support the programmes that will be conducted in this regard. We also say that as the National Movement Party, we will openly support policies that support the small entrepreneur, especially in agriculture, support the family initiatives in the field of livestock, to increase employment as well as to increase production capacity. Of course, work has a positive effect on a person, but it also has a negative effect. The negative effects are occupational illness and business accidents. These risks on human health are significant risks in the working environment. Therefore, we care deeply about health care in the working environment, health care in the workplace, and safety in the workplace. In working life as the National Movement Party, we say that we will publicly support any improvements or programmes to be conducted for health and safety in the workplace. This is not consumption. With our contributions, we're actually contributing to human and production. Therefore, working environments must be improved. The main logic in business health and safety programmes is the risk approach. If we conduct these policies properly, we can create policies to prevent these risks from being defined at work, so that we can reset business accidents and prevent occupational illness. This is theoretically possible. A business accident can't be our destiny. It is important to take every precaution, and we fully support the measures taken in this regard. Yeah, well, right now, we have an organization that deals with business health, safety at work. This needs to be activated. Here we also care about the public's job, especially the increased audits, and the fact that risk analysis has been done at work, and the implementation of corrections and improvements to dangerous areas. We are very concerned about the public implementation of occupational health and safety services. Although the Health and Safety Act was passed in 2012, we do not find it right to be postponed, suspended in public. The Law on Business Health and Safety must be implemented at once, and occupational health care units must be opened, and business health programmes for public employees should be conducted because there are some institutions in the public that are working together, and there are risks in the environment where thousands of people work. For example, hospitals are considered dangerous business classes, and thousands of people work in hospitals. Again, as far as I know, there are 6,000 staff members in our House. It's very important that business medicine here is organized, institutionalized. Now, there's one thing that's involved: corporate medicine is a different thing, business medicine is a different thing. The institution's physician is the person who serves the clinic at the institution. However, the workplace physician is not authorized to provide clinic services. The workplace physician is the one who defines the risk and ensures that the risk is eliminated. Thus, there is a need for workplace physicians and safety in every institution, everywhere. In our laws, this was actually arranged in 2012, but we can't see enough of it in practice, so we expect it to be implemented in public as soon as possible. Of course, we're not doing so well in terms of business accidents. That's why we support the preventive programs for business accidents, and we want the necessary measures to be taken. We have a bigger problem with occupational illness. There is a problem with diagnosing occupational illness in Turkey. The basis of this problem is medical reasons; we can't diagnose occupational diseases, we don't know about occupational diseases, and there are legal problems in accepting occupational illness, and we need to fix them. facilitating the diagnosis of occupational illness and facilitating its acceptance legally, I'm sure it will benefit from it, not from harm, and it will help to ensure that it never happens again. Of course, the Ministry of Labor has a lot of space. One of their most important institutions is Social Security. We know about the financial problems of the Social Security Agency, but we especially care that some groups' expenses are fully paid back. We have an offer on this. For example, we recommend that Type 1 diabetes patients, our children's sensor -- the system that monitors this blood sugar -- and the insulin pumps are fully refunded. Like our deaf children's hearing aids, it is also one of our most important expectations that children's oresthetics and prosthetic devices be fully paid back. We care deeply about them to improve our children's well-being, living standards, and quality of life, and we have offers to do so. We also care that all of this will be paid back. The other thing is, of course, we expect to make arrangements for working life in the public. In particular, in public, according to our Constitution, the basic work structure is the state's work is carried out through government officials. It is said that different statuses in the public have negative effects in terms of working peace, and we expect regulations to be made in public as the National Movement Party, under contract, under contract, under-privileged, paid, subject to public service status, and to increase our capacity for production. Of course, our Ministry has an important interest in family. Family is the foundation of our society, the values that make us who we are. It's not just family, it's our relationship, it's our neighbor's law, it's our values. You have to keep those values. Family is the smallest unit in which physical, emotional, and social needs are met, trust is given, solidarity exists. We need to strengthen our family structure, support our family. We support any program against increasing divorces. We need to support this institution by seriously applying pre-wedding education. By increasing family counselling centres and services, we especially care about psychological support for families. We support policy on maintaining the family structure by providing financial support to the needed families. We actually have a law proposal as our nationalist movement group regarding the custody issue that arises in the families after the divorce.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0515par0298	Here you go, Mr. Aycan.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0514par0299	We also expect that the issue of joint custody will be organised and that the children will be prevented from becoming victims of the fight between the family. And finally, I'd like to say a few words about the disabled. As the National Movement Party, we expect the disabled to live as equal citizens, to live without being dependent on anyone, to be employed, and to support policies related to that. In particular, we know that 17,000 quotas for disabled persons in the private sector are empty, and we expect our Ministry to direct and monitor the private sector in order for this to be filled as soon as possible. On this occasion, I wish our nation, our state, the best budget of the year 2021, and I thank you, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0516par0303	Mr. Desire Erdem, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0517par0305	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my National Movement Party Group under the central management budget of 2021, the budget bill. I salute our beloved Turkish nation, who are watching us at the head of the Veteran Assembly and its screens. I wish God's mercy to our heroes who lost their lives in the traitorous bombing in the Battle of the Fountain of Peace, and to our wounded gendarmes, and to our salvation. The first Turkish women's rally was in the 101st year. A hundred and one years ago, on September 28, 1919, Kastamonu, who supported the national struggle and fully supported Kuvaymilliye, held his first women's rally against the occupation in the garden of the Women's Arms of the Defense Legal Society, Mrs. Zekiye's Head, the Castamon School of Teachers. Yes, the first Turkish women's rally was in the 101st year. Women as brave and as discreet as the men of the Turkish nation have fought to protect their country and independence, who have been with men like courage and virtue, who have set examples of bravery and heroism. The founder of our Republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, was in his March 21, 1923, in his talk with Konya: "I have worked harder than any other nation's woman in the world. I have worked as hard as an Anatolian woman to lead my people to salvation and glory. She cannot say. Our women run the lifebloods of our men army. They've always been the mighty, the sacrificing, the divine Anatolian woman, who plowed the field and did not say rain with her calf, nor said winter, but carried the needs of the front. Therefore, let us all know that we are blessed and blessed, with gratitude and gratitude, and with great spirit and great emotion." Our history is full of the heroics of our Turkish women, our Nene Hatun, our Halide Corporal, our Nezahat Corporal, our Sheriffe Sister, our Halima Sergeant, and I would like to remember our heroic Turkish woman again with mercy, whose name I will not be able to count. I'd like to point out that in our history, and in our glorious and glorious past, neither a step ahead of a man nor a woman has ever been one step ahead of a woman, shoulder to shoulder, side to side, they've gone through all the struggles. This will be so from now on, by God's leave. Dear MPs, I'd like to continue my talk on the budgets of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services and the Employment Agency, with the importance of the concept of family. It is the smallest community of parents and children, the foundation of the institutions that create society, the beliefs of society, tradition and traditions, values, and, in short, its culture, protects and protects future generations. Therefore, the family is very important to our children's upbringing and education, and is even important to them in the first degree. The family specifically states that the mother's socializing influence is stronger than any other member of the family. Because of this feature, the mother is also called the child's first teacher in the context of education. Hence, on the family scale, the responsibility for socialization is often given to the mother. What's that supposed to mean? In the preservation of our national and spiritual values, in the transfer of it to future generations, the mother and mother have a great deal of responsibility in the presence of the man. Our national values represent the national consciousness of the great Turkish nation and should not be lost. A nation of national consciousness means a nation, and a nation is a state. That's why national values are essential to a nation. Spiritual values are another of the most important elements that hold one nation together, that make the state strong. Every society has its own identity, as each of us has its own. The identities of the nations are their spiritual values. These values give societies the ability to become a nation, to connect individuals of society, to form a common consciousness. It is the duty of us mothers, women, and men to instill in our children and young people a national sense and spirituality. When you say national values, our country, our flag, our language, our religion, our law, and our customs, our national anthem, our state elders come first. In short, it is also useful to refer to the first four articles of our Constitution. The shape of our state: the name of our state is the Republic of Turkey and the republic. The attributes of the Republic of Turkey are a state of democratic, secular and social law based on basic principles laid forth in the sense of peace, national solidarity and justice of society, respect for human rights, and Ataturk nationalism. Again, the integrity of the state, the official language, the flag, the national anthem and its capital: the state of Turkey is indivisible with its country and its capital. His language is Turkish. The flag is the star of the moon. Its capital is Ankara. What I have to say about the indivisible integrity of our state is that the Turkish nation cannot be separated from ethnic elements. The Turkish nation is one and our national identity is our Turkicism. In this regard, especially in the idea of nationalism, which we inherited by our heavenly Basbug, Alparslan Türkesh Bey, is the sense and consciousness of being from the Turkish nation, to love the Turkish nation and to carry the love of faithful service to the Turkish state, to be loyal to the country and to make every sacrifice that Turkish nation can make and work to rise. Anyone carrying that emotion and consciousness is Turkish. After that, we're nationalists, Turks. Why are we Turkish? Because our nation is a Turkish nation. Everything the Turkish nation does at every stage of its life is to be in accordance with the Turkish spirit, Turkish tradition, and to be useful to the Turk, to keep its idea in the forefront. As our leader, Mr. State Gardener, says, "No, there is a punishment in union. We seek good, we seek unity, and let it be known that global gangs do not desire political extensions within the country, we do not divide our homeland, we do not cause our flag to fall, nor do we cause our oppressor to die." [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] In addition to the education our first teachers accepted as teachers -- the practice was in the past -- there was etiquette lessons, speech lessons, communication skills courses, and other courses that would benefit our national and spiritual values should be taken into our national education curriculum, and in this regard it should be studied better, and in the source books. Maybe that's what we've all been complaining about lately. Is there a wear and tear in our spiritual values? Why don't our children communicate with us? Why aren't we communicating with each other enough? Here, the more we can preserve our spiritual and national values, the more we can strengthen them, the more we can actually prevent these values from being shaken. For this reason, immoral acts, such as violence, terrorism, bribery, theft, have become a threat to the security and integrity of the state and the nation. The pandemic process has actually shown us once again the importance of our spiritual values. In the process, as a Turkish nation, we need to take care of those values that make us who we are, and work to keep them alive. Dear lawmakers, one of the other things that we need to focus on in the course of our time, especially when children and young people will be able to watch, is the evaluation of psychological traumas in terms of the content of programs and the issues that will cause our spiritual values to wear down, a detailed review of them, and a deterrent punishment in order to prevent negative behaviors in programs from being accepted normal for future generations, and even an important part of them must be removed from the broadcast. It is our duty to raise children ready for the future. If we raise our children right, we look to the future with such confidence, we look to the right way. In addition, a number of studies can be conducted in municipalities in order to provide national, spiritual education, and training to preserve them, along with the education of parents, who will be given to our brothers and sisters who will be parents, who will be married again after marriage. I wish our budget of 2021 was a blessing, and our ministry, and our country, and our nation, and I salute your Veteran Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0518par0321	Mr. Nevin Stonedchay. Here you go, Mr. Rocky.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0519par0324	Before I begin my speech, I wish God's mercy to our soldiers who were killed in the treacherous attack in the Battle of the Fountain of Peace. I'm sorry for the loss of our beloved nation. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on budget proposals from the Office of the Family, Labour and Social Services Agency in general of the Management Budget Proposal of 2021. I salute our Veteran Assembly and all members of the great Turkish nation who follow us at the beginning of their screens. We're about to leave 2020 behind under the conditions of the outbreak with the new coronavirus disease, which is fast under the influence of the world's agenda and surrounding our lives in an instant. Of course, the mescurial process that has affected the conditions and governance around the world has affected our country's growing goals, institutional strategies and expectations, working conditions and outputs, leaving humanity facing a difficult process to manage. I would like to point out that in such a time as this, our martyrs, our veterans, our disabled citizens, women, children and elderly, our country's greatest value -- our people and the basis of the Turkish nation -- is that the ministry's efforts and its genius in the process of taking direct responsibility for the family -- and that its existence is incalculable to the mighty Turkish nation. Today, December 10th, a hundred years ago today, I honor the women who organized the first women's rally in Kastamon, against the invasion of Anatolia. They are heroes of the republic's founding will. In our ideal country, Turkey, which we equate with the seal of our Republic for the 100th year, we see strong economic and social unity as the principal requirements of the rise, but we see our women as the most important part of the hairfoot, the center of stability and stability that will provide strong economic and social unity. We know that the prosperity of the Republic of Turkey has passed through our women's well-being. At this point, we would like to say that in 2018, our Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry appreciates the protocol they signed to strengthen women's cooperatives. The number of people who have been reached by study, education and information meetings, which have been organised in 81 districts by women's cooperatives will be the key to women's employment. The number of new women co-operatives established in the last two years under the signed protocol is 81. For today's sake, we consider these numbers, which are the sparks to move our socioeconomic structure, to be just a small start-up step in terms of our future state monopoly. At this point, our women are interested in the importance of the human resources that we have in particular, and the need to increase the number of social solidarity centers that have increased by eight additional points in the last two years, and to increase access to these many-directed centers where our women can receive multiple support. It will also strengthen the effect of expanding and expanding the goal and planning for the creation of counseling pools for 1,000 women in the area of women's co-opting, as well as an arrangement that our women who receive counseling services can provide guidance for our other women in this area. In addition to being a co-operative woman, it is necessary to take an institutional role as a pioneer to address problems with equal wages, which are still in existence, and to ensure equal working conditions and equal balance of benefits. At this point, we expect to eliminate the distinction of professional name-calling beyond gender distinctions, in terms such as contractual, paid, and extra lessons, to be put into staff and to continue in equal working conditions, equal balance of benefit. A strong economic lock doesn't have a single key. Only production, employment alone, the increase of women's presence and influence in the economic plane will not be sufficient at the point of a strong economic order. The strong economy also needs the infrastructure of many material moral values, such as stability, social peace, social unity, trust. Sadly, the problem of violence against a woman who has deep effects on the shaking and decay of our social peace has not been resolved. The work carried out on women by the principle of zero tolerance has not yet reached the expected outcome. The ultimate success is not that violence, harassment, rape, murder acts are shaped in a graphically reduced course, but that the zero tolerance motto is that violence against women, women's murders and their fears about their freedom of life. As we have already stated, the solution to this social problem that concerns all of us is passed on to everyone. In this regard, efforts should be made to raise public awareness of violence against women, not to develop lasting awareness of women and respect for women. Taking into account the sensitivity of the issue, the fight against the coronavirus today must be put into effect on a national scale. As steps to support this struggle, the necessary measures must be taken urgently against the publications of the television screens and social media platforms that have now begun to have social status over the personal quality of the woman under her superior title. Eliminating violence against women and reaching out to a nonviolent society will not save the present, but a siege of tomorrow. AS one of the steps of the siege tomorrow, the effects and shortcomings of the CENTURY must be analysed well, while the preventive measures for the woman must be increased. Our goal should not be to protect our women who have suffered violence, but not to remember any of our women with violence. The cultural code of our nation, which we are proud of, clearly shows that the family is the foundation of the Turkish community. Children are family members who strengthen both our foundations for today and our goals for the future. For our foundations to be strong, it is no doubt necessary for our children to grow up in a clean environment with a qualified education. In particular, it is our primary duty to prevent our children from falling into the dark depths of the virtual world, especially in an era of technology that runs up to our bones. However, accurate and effective use of IT-oriented programmes that facilitate life and education should also be provided. The issue of child labor is, again, a reality that we need to address with care and care. In this case, studies within the National Programme for Anti-National Labor should continue. For the future's youth and the future of our young people, we wish that such work would continue with determination. I thank all of our public employees for their selfless work in the family, the Ministry of Labor and Social Services, with the hope that the current Turkish public administration understanding in the ministry will exist from yesterday to eternity, that their future will be stronger than today, and I salute you again and respectfully, with the best of our central management budget in 2021.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0520par0341	Mr. Ayþe Sibel Ersoy. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0521par0344	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of my Nationalist Action Party Group on behalf of the 2021 Central Management Budget Proposal and the 2019 Central Management Law Proposal at the Grand National Assembly General Assembly of Turkey, on behalf of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services and the Association for Occupational Responsibility. As I begin my speech, I wish our heroes, Mehmet, who were martyrs in the vile attack of traitors in the Battle of the Fountain of Peace, the mercy of God Almighty, the mercy of their grieving families, their relatives, and our beloved nation, and the immediate healing of our wounded. Again, four years ago in Dolmabahçe, four years ago today, I remember 44 of our martyrs, including 36 members of the Police, eight civilians, with mercy and gratitude. Members of lawmakers, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services, in a very large area, such as employees, pensioners, women, children, disabled and family, are struggling with problems that concern every part of society and developing solution proposals, projects. As of 2017, our population, which is the driving force for the development of our country with its young and dynamic structure, has risen to over 80 million, and with the population growth, it is imperative that the investments in human and social capital be increased in order to meet the needs of our country. The strengthening of the individual in every part of society is important for the development of our country as a potential force. Thus, the child, young, old, is also important to be able to respond to and support the needs of every part of society. In particular, the labour market and working life have been negatively affected by the coronavirus epidemic, and the economic activity has been significantly narrowed by the economic and social activation of the epidemic. The lack of a general quarantine in Turkey and the continued production and exports of the firms, even though a significant part of them are not fully capable, also limiting the recession in the economy and employment. With the impact of the steps and the gradual normalisation, economic events have begun partially to recover since June. We hope the second wave will end, along with vaccines and drug studies, that spring will bring about a rebirth for our country and the whole world. Members of parliament, the main factor of the fight against unemployment is employment-friendly growth and entrepreneurial capacity. In order to develop and strengthen entrepreneurial capacity, the entrepreneur's every effort to create investments, open jobs, add value, production, exports, revenue should be supported. Therefore, business, investment and entrepreneurial-oriented approach should be the basis of employment strategy. There are problems in our country that await solutions to the labour market and working life. One of the structural reform areas that we consider necessary as the National Movement Party is the reforms needed to improve labour market and working life. These reforms, which need to be studied meticulously, are reforms aimed at improving the quality of the labour force, such as training, employment planning, strengthening vocational education and the activation of active labour force programmes. These reforms may be listed as establishing a social welfare system that does not deter employment, reducing employment taxes, improving a severance system that guarantees the rights of our workers, preventing business accidents, pre-empting job safety and occupational health, ensuring that the union's rights are appropriate for modern norms. Precious lawmakers, as it is known, the best answer to the needs of any child, young, young, woman, man, old, disabled individual is the family. The most important feature of the family as an identity and institution is that it exists in different ways in all societies, but the family, viewed as an indispensable value of traditional societies, has changed structurally along with the transition to modern life. Although this change differs from society to society, in the end, a large number of social scientists agree that the family institution is beginning to wear out and break down every day, and its future is unpredictable. In fact, the dissolution of the family means the destruction of the fundamental building blocks of society that form the natural unity and order, which is one of the most important reasons to threaten the safety of the individual's existence and increase their vital concerns. In modern - day societies, where there is deep insecurity and anxiety about life, particularly the incentive for individualism has led to cultural corruption or alienation. That is why the family institution must be protected in advance. In the changing society, the family is not only producing economic value. Man is born in a family, he grows up in a family, he lives in a family. At this point, the family also performs an important task in the transfer of our faith, culture and civilization to the next generation. Congressmans, perhaps our ministry's most sensitive duty is to solve all the problems our disabled citizens face in everyday life. It must be remembered that just as seed is entrusted to the soil, our disabled citizens are entrusted to society and the mirror of society. They need to act actively in everyday life. As a party, I would like to point out that we will make every contribution we can to the laws that will be passed to remove the obstacles that have been put in the way of our disabled citizens. It is one of the duties of the state to improve the rights of disabled individuals, to ensure that they have equal opportunities, to ensure that the disabled develop in line with their abilities and potential, to ensure their economic and social well-being. While many services for disabled persons have been implemented so far, the disabled still have problems. Today, poor disabled pensions are inadequate, and needy disabled pensions must be increased. On the other hand, it is not right to consider the family's income in determining the situation of the disabled. This must be resolved, and while the income test is being done, it should be based on the disability's own income instead of on family income. It should also ensure that those who are disabled can be considered a disability before they are born or employed. While the number of disabled officers has been increased as part of the Public Contenjacation Programme, which aims to increase the employment of disabled citizens, unemployment is also one of the main problems of the disabled. The participation and employment of disabled persons must also be increased. Precious lawmakers are also important in terms of improving the quality of the services and work that we receive at every stage of our daily life, as well as the quality of a certain standardization of jobs and services that are established to establish and operate the National Qualities System, which defines and recognises competencies with its shareholders, provided international quality assurances. Increased quality in services and work and improved standards will also increase efficiency, as well as the value of adding to the country's economy. Education provided by the institution for various sectors is expected to lead to the creation of a qualified human resource by securing the integration of employment. Unfortunately, the importance of professional competence has been understood too late in our country. Education should not be made into a procedure, detail or precondition that should be completed.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0522par0357	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0521par0358	The institution, which is critical at the point of improving the quality of the service of public employees and employing our citizens in public, has problems with important issues such as the facility of the integrity system in appointment, transfer and rise, which is not working with the employee, the performance system for those who know and those who don't know. We think the institution will achieve its goal with the necessary political support. It is the responsibility of us, the High Assembly, to make legal arrangements for the healthy establishment of the merit and performance system. The effect of the abuse and deception of the performance and integrity system in the July 15th betrayal should not be ignored, he says, and I salute our great House.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0522par0361	Dear Private...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0523par0364	Mr. President, we have listened carefully to the oratories, not to any bullying, but we have a trust to declare. First, members of the House. Mr. Secretary, there are 4/D personnel in the House. On October 1, 2020, our friends were without a collective contract, or rather, they were under contract until October 1, 2020, and they have been on the same salary for four years. There is also talk of the General Secretary-General of Parliament, but unfortunately, there was no response to your Ministry's request for the authority taken by Turkish-İSK for a long time. Now they've both asked for authorization and it's been 35 days. They've been waiting for four years, and they still don't have a union, and they're suffering severe losses. In this regard, your ministry needs to make a fair, right decision as soon as possible regarding this request of authority; that's what our council personnel expect of you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0522par0367	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0523par0368	We hope you will not repeat the injustices and injustices your ministry has committed to pave the way for the HAK-İSK despite being taken over by another union in Istanbul Metropolitan last year. And the second thing, Mr. President, is that sometimes you talk about something, and you say, "One person understood me, and that's where we got it wrong." Now, last weekend, if your license says "TECEL dealership" on the side -- the same one, the same one says "TECEL dealership," not in one -- they closed some stores, some mini-marts just because they were selling alcohol. The Chamber of Grocery rebelled: our customer is headed to the big markets; they are free to go, not to us. This time they returned, and banned alcohol from the markets during the curfew. Now, when this comes down to it... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing, Mr. President, my last sentence.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0524par0372	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0523par0373	We've told you before, they've been giving alcohol an asymmetric increase since they arrived. They're officially financing their power from the tax of a drinking citizen. Four sips of five drinks is tax. If you call it a fight against addiction, they've made the state an alcoholic and its citizen a tax addict. At the curfew this weekend, the market's open, and he's not gonna sell his liquor. Whereas it should be open to the local TECEL dealership -- also selling a lot of things -- but we clearly condemn the position of those who are looking for opportunities to intervene in the lifestyle, sir. Thank you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Nuclear Organising Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account MIDDLE DETECTIVE AND EARCH GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2019 Central Management Predictable Account ÜRKEY ATOM INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Occupational Qualification Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Occupational Qualification Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account EVLET PERSONEL PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2019
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0525par0414	Speeches for the group are complete. Now, on behalf of the individuals, it is up to Mr. Salim İkkintcioğlu to speak for himself. Here you go, Mr. İkintcioğlu.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0526par0418	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the third round of the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I hereby salute our High Council. As I begin my words, two of our soldiers were killed in the bomb attack on the Fountain of Peace, and eight of our soldiers were wounded, and I pray to God for mercy and immediate healing for our wounded soldiers. I curse terror, terrorists, and those who support terrorism. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My fellow lawmakers, our country continues to make great strides in energy as well as in family, work, social policy. There's no confusion, war, chaos, conflict, strife in the world over the last century, so there's no energy account left behind, one way or another. For this reason, a violent order has been established for control and security of oil and natural gas fields. In our country, for many, many years, oil and gas exploration was usually done in the form of rental, outside of our government. Especially in deep sea drilling, we were completely dependent on the outside. Hundreds of millions of dollars worth of research, and we'd get nothing but three or five pages of reports. We don't take anyone's sins, but at the end of the day, we can't walk like this anymore. We're walking our goals with no regard for anyone, and no one else's rights. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Three drillings and two seismic research ships, owned by our country, are fully operating with our own equipment and our own personnel. As a result of the search for hydrocarbons in the Black Sea and the Mediterranean, there was a natural gas reserve of 405 billion cubic metres [405 billion cubic m] in Sakarya Field, the discovery recorded in 2020 as the greatest discovery in the world; we are honored, proud. (EA/DG) So, hopefully, after 2025, about 30 percent of the market needs will be met. As part of the National Energy and Mining Policy, work continues to increase the use of domestic coal. Rehab investments continue to increase efficiency in Keban, Karakaya and HYRfanian HEES, from the current public-run dams in our country in terms of power. Again, my own district, which will be included in the completion of its construction, is Şaz Prof. Dr. The construction of Hasan Zuhuri Sarıkaya Dam continues quickly. In the period from 2002 to 2020, 18 years of renewable energy, our country has achieved a structure that can meet about four times the need for energy. The work continues for the completion of the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant. The first unit of the plant, which will meet about 10 per cent of Turkey's electricity needs when it is completed, is scheduled to be taken into operation by 2023 and the other units by the end of 2026 year after year. We can safely say that there is now a high-level Turkey in the energy field. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] There have also been great developments in family, work and social policy. The family is Turkey's most important strategic power for yesterday, today and tomorrow. Both sociological and economically, the family has tremendous power to transform and transform society. Thus, our Ministry considers the family to be worthy of Turkey. With our reforms during our administrations, we have almost all of our citizens under social security umbrellas. Today, about 99 percent of the population is covered by social security. In working life, when we look at women's labour market statistics, we see that women's employment rate and women's participation in the labor force are increasing. In the first half of the year 2020, the Covid-19 epidemic, which dominated the world and our country, also affected the labour market. Covid-19 outbreaks have led to the need for support of businesses and employees, for remote work practices to ensure the sustainability of production and employment at workplaces.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0527par0432	Here you go, Mr. İkintcioğlu.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0526par0433	...a variety of measures have been taken to address the negativity of the past and changing conditions on the labour market. The Social Protection Shield for all populations affected by the epidemic has been activated. In the fight against the outbreak of Covid-19, we took the quickest and most urgent measures, based on the social dialogue, and continued to protect both the worker and the employer together. We've formed the Loyalty Social Support Groups to meet the basic needs of small-income citizens. Mr. President, we've had enough of our campaign, and with the support of our nation, we've delivered a $2 billion donation to those in need. As it turns out, for 18 years, our governments have been with our citizens with all their resources. Finally, I thank our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who led the breakthroughs in energy, family, work and social policy, our ministers, our deputies, our bureaucrats, our engineers, and all our employees here.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0527par0437	All hail, please.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0526par0438	With such feelings and thoughts, I wish the central management budget of 2021 to be good for our nation and our state, to our Veterans Assembly and to all our citizens watching us on the screen. I'll leave it in the hands of God.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit06spe0527par0440	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0527par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. Commission? He's in position. In the third round, we begin the talks on behalf of the executives. The first word for the executive is for Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Mr. Fatih Gitez. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0528par0009	Dear President of our Veteran Assembly, Congressmans, I salute you all. Before I begin my words, we have lost two soldiers in the Battle of the Fountain of Peace, sadly, martyred; I remember them with mercy, and wish our wounded soldiers immediate healing. We are gathered to negotiate the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2019 Central Management Act Proposal for Competitive Accounting Law. I also congratulate, congratulate, thank you, all of our deputies, who have contributed in these negotiations and have led us by their criticism and questions. We conduct our plans, projects, strategies, supply security, placement and predictable markets motto and political sustainability, financial sustainability and participation principles in the mission and energy to make the highest contribution to the country's well-being by a efficient, environmental assessment of energy, of course, and, of course, in the way we come up with a secure vision of the future in resources. With great sacrifice, we continue our efforts to meet the needs of our citizens using our resources rationally, rationally, and highly efficiently, in order to meet the growing demand in the fields of energy and of natural resources, reduce external dependency, and minimize the impact on the current deficit. In these steps, we've implemented innovative, incremental investments that prioritize domestic and renewable resources, transparent, competitive, protecting consumers, following the day of current developments, and high added value and deep RD investments. We direct our work from energy prices to the environment, from global developments to technological developments, to our consultations with our associates on how the future will be formed. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have come to a very good place at the point of power and production in order to meet our country's growing need for electricity without problems, thus removing the risk of supply safety in electricity and natural gas. However, being prepared for any scenario, technological developments and economic growth is one of our top priority topics to maintain energy supply security, constant monitoring and control. We've already begun to reap the fruits of the important steps we've taken in recent years to bring renewable energy and energy efficiency to the center. As a result of positive discrimination against local and renewable energy sources to diversify our electrical production basket, there has been a significant decline in the share of imported energy sources in electricity production. In recent years, one of the most important elements of the energy attack is the renewable energy field, which has only been active in the last two years, 78 percent of the 7.051 megawatt board power is made up of renewable energy sources. In the first decade of 2020, almost all of the 2,950 megawatts of power activated was renewable energy, and the amount of renewable energy boards that only take effect in this decade exceeds the total renewable power of 20 countries in Europe. In 2019, the amount of electricity produced from only renewable energy exceeded the total production of electricity in 2002, in order to make our point more clear. About 60 percent of the 252 billion kilowatts of electricity produced in the first decade of 2020 was produced from domestic and renewable energy sources. In addition, for the past two years, the share of domestic and renewable energy sources in electricity production has always been more than 50 per cent per month. These serious increases in the share of domestic and renewable energy have provided both a guarantee of supply security and a positive contribution to the current deficit. By 2023, we aim to reach 65 per cent of the power of the electricity board based on domestic and renewable energy sources; last year it was 62 per cent; this year we will probably do it under 60 per cent. Some of our lawmakers have just voiced criticism, especially in the renewable area and in classical thermal electricity production facilities. We actually shared this with our members of parliament at the Commission meetings, but we made a visual because some of our MPs said, "Why do we need so much HES?" Some said, "Why do we need so much wind?" Some said, "Why do we need so much wind?" There were critics of geothermal plants. I've visually drawn up the share of our production, and I'd like to share it with you, if I may. Now, I'd like to start with the classic gas sources. We have about 337 gas plants in Turkey right now, which have the power of 25.636 megawatts. Not much, but ten to fifteen years ago, we produced almost half of the electricity that we produced from natural gas, even a little bit more, but last year, we reduced dependency on this imported resource, we reduced it to less than 20 percent, 19 percent. So what these plants get from production is that when you take into account about 24 hours of electricity production -- and I want to get your attention -- we make 4.6 hours out of natural gas-based electricity production facilities. In other words, shut down the natural gas plants. When you say "Otherwise," we're going to spend four or six hours of 24 hours without electricity, which means we're going to be in the dark. Another visual is about local coal. Here many of our MPs are now saying that local resources should be weighed down, and because of the emissions that the coal has produced, some of our MPs are taking it negatively. When you look at it globally, we see that the interest in these resources is not as high as it used to be, it's not much preferred in terms of emissions and carbon dioxide emissions. Today, however, about 38 per cent of the electricity produced in the world is still covered by coal-based plants, and we receive about 30 per cent of it from coal, if we are imported and domestic in Turkey. We also receive 17 percent of this from local coal. That's 4.1 hours in 24 hours. When you say shut down the local coal plants, we face the possibility of being in the dark for four hours. As for imported coal: Of course, local coals have also been developed, especially in the last decade, due to some difficulties with the production of coal. Here we have about 15 plants across the country, 8.987 megawatts of power. And that's 20% in total production. Once we shut down these plants, we could be out of power for 4.9 hours. Now, I want to talk about the charge in the system of electricity produced from renewable energy sources, respectively. The geothermal is one of the plants that we've made a big move on in the last 18 years. We have 60 geothermal sources and plants with 1.579 megawatts of power, and we are in the third place in the world.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0529par0021	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0528par0022	Okay. About 3 per cent of this is in the production. When we shut down all these geothermal plants, we'll be dealing with a 0.7-hour power outage in less than an hour. Akarsu... some of our lawmakers have made some statements against him, especially since he's turned against small rivers, destroying nature and the environment. Currently, we have 575 small HES plants in Turkey, with about 8,000 megawatts of power. Keban is around 1,600 megawatts; we produce electricity from small HESbooks about 3 or 4 times that size. The total power share is 8.5 per cent, and when you look at it, let's not use these little HES. Turn it off, we can face 1.8 hours of power outage per day.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0530par0025	That's not true...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0531par0026	There's more... Well, as for the large damed HESKS, there are 131 large HESEs with dams. We've got about 22,000 megawatts of power. The electricity we produce in our plants, which are mainly in the Black Sea and Southeast regions of Turkey, is 22 per cent. Once you shut down these plants, we'll be in the dark for 5.3 hours. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, recently, local governments, especially in biogas, biomass, you know, have attacks on electricity production; there's a significant success there, with our large, small, 328 biomass plants, in production, at 2%. When you shut down these plants, there's a good chance we'll be out of power for about half an hour. Well, the sun didn't usually get a lot of criticism. In particular, there has been a serious move in the last three or four years, where our number of operators has reached 7.347. Most of them are one megawatt sub-licenseless power generation plants, and their share here is 3%. Once we shut down the solar plants, we could be facing a 0.7-hour power outage. As for the wind: Unfortunately, we support the renewables. Some of our parties have recently had a negative propaganda against wind turbines and power plants. In renewable energy sources all over the world, even though all governments have given investment incentives, including guarantees of buy-ins, we see some groups in Turkey who have propaganda against it under environmental cover. There are 314 plants in Turkey, 8.330 megawatts.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0532par0032	HESEs are not renewable.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0533par0033	In total production, we have a 7 percent chance of facing 1.7 hours of darkness a day when we shut down wind plants. And some of our deputies said, "Let's not run classical thermal plants." Can we do this with production facilities based solely on renewable energy sources? It is not technically possible to guarantee supply security of a country based on renewable energy sources all over the world today. The whole world is working on this, but the changes in production from dry or watery season in the sun, day and night, or hydraulics, are already the biggest obstacle to regular production. That's why you need classic thermal power plants to back up these plants. In other words, if we shut down the classical power plants, let's just supply the electricity of this country from renewable energy sources, you can produce only ten hours of electricity, you can stay in the dark for 14 hours. Now, I'd like to get to the point that some opposition lawmakers in particular have come up with some policy proposals. I wanted to share with you in concrete terms the economic, social, technical equivalent of these. If we had followed those policies, the country would be in darkness today, but we need light, not darkness. We have a responsibility to ensure reliable supply security for future generations. Don't be a dreamer, please, don't be a dreamer.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0534par0037	People are always voting for us to be bright.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0533par0038	We can't be liars to people who always vote bright.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0534par0039	People vote for us because it's always bright.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0533par0040	If you had come to power, eight of the ten lamps that were lit there would have been dim. [[AK PARTY rankings (Bravo) voices, applause; noise from CHP and HDP rows]] Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, if we have the source, and the technology should be ours, we've also implemented our YEKA models, which require domestic production, domestic engineer, domestic RD and innovation in the field of renewable energy. With this model, we aim to be a country that is constantly reinventing and exporting technology in energy technologies. As a matter of fact, we are now a technology base that can make the wind turbine here itself, make solar panels in Turkey, not only the need of plants in Turkey, but also the needs of countries in the region and other demanding countries in the world.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0535par0043	Sure, if you give it away for free! Give it to the public for free.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0533par0044	Congressmans, we are also planning to conduct 74 megawatt-led competitions in the early 2021, as part of a small-scale mini-YEKA process developed to allow medium and small-scale investors to enter the renewable energy sector. As a reflection of all these steps taken, the world's largest renewable energy equipment manufacturers began to conduct regional operations in Turkey, placing regional offices in Turkey. This also contributed to a serious transfer of information and savings into our country in terms of both production and management skills. In renewable energy, we've started the period of renewable energy not only in production, but also in consumption, by taking on the green tariff that will make our citizens part of the process. So that our citizens can only use electricity produced from renewable energy sources. However, we will also activate the organised YEK-G market platform in 2021, aimed at proving that certain amounts of electricity provided were produced from renewable energy sources, with a Renewable Energy Resource Guarantee Document.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0536par0047	They're history, culture...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0533par0048	We also launched our work on planning plans for the 2021-2025 implementation period, which we plan to invest about 68 billion euros, according to TÜFE, as part of the development and modernisation of our electrical infrastructure. Again, we plan to invest about 18 billion dollars in the next three years, during the 2021-2023 application. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, one of the key alternatives between the power-producing plants we would call a base-loading power plant to meet the energy demand is the nuclear power plants in the class of zero emissions power plants. In this direction, the construction of the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant, the first nuclear power plant in our country, continues. Hopefully, in 2023, the first reactor was our republic's 100th year, and we plan to take the other three reactors one year apart. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are financially strong, liberalized, competitive, stable, in order to create predictable markets and protect consumers.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0537par0052	As a weapon...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0533par0053	...and in a transparent way the rules for liberalisation have been implemented through an environment where investments can be made easier and faster. Thanks to the EPIAC created for the sustainable work of energy markets, our country has been moved to an important point in its region, in line with our vision of becoming an energy trade centre. We're not going to be a country where gas or electricity is only used as transit, we're going to be a market where these products are commercialized, bought and sold. We also aim to launch the future electricity market, which is expressed as a advanced physical delivery electricity market for the development of the energy sector and the market, within 2021. Our position on market development is clear and clear, and our goal is to make Turkey a centre where energy is not only transferred but also priced. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers, as far as natural gas and oil issues are concerned, today all of our 81 counties, 566 districts and 165 organised industrial areas have been supplied with natural gas supplies, and the number of subscribers has increased to 17.1 million, and nearly 80 per cent of our country's population has become accessible to natural gas. We also aim to increase the number of natural gas-supply settlements by the end of 2022, as part of studies on supplying natural gas to the settlements by the end of 2022. With our work as part of natural gas supply security, the total storage capacity of our Salt Lake and North Marmara Natural Gas Storage Facility has reached 3,84 billion cubic metres, and our daily recycling capacity has reached 45 million cubic metres. With the completion of work on our natural gas tanks, the total storage capacity of these two facilities will reach 10 billion cubic metres, the daily production capacity of 155 million cubic metres, and we will be able to preserve 20 per cent of our national consumption in these warehouses. In addition, we are continuing our efforts to activate the Third FSRU Terminal in the Gulf of Saros. The FSRU ship, which we call Ertuğrul Gazi, is also provided and, hopefully, will join our fleet within a few months. As part of the distribution of resources and routes, TANAP and Turkish Stream Projects have been activated and the gas flow has begun. On the other hand, our seismic research ships have already completed a total of nine deep-sea drillings with our Fatih and Yavuz drilling ships, and a deep-sea drilling is already under way. The third drilling ship was completed at the Port of Filyos. Hopefully, in the early months of 2021, when he completes his other supplies, he will begin drilling in the Black Sea. As Turkey, we have made our position on Eastern Mediterranean jurisdiction clear, with both our explanations and our activities in the field. Our search and drilling activities in the Black Sea will be carried out with determination, without compromise from our international legal rights in the eastern Mediterranean basin. As a result of our decisive work, we discovered the 405 billion cubic metres of natural gas reserve in the Black Sea Sakarya basin, 175km away from Eregli, with the drilling of the Danube-1 well, which was launched on July 20th by the largest natural gas discovery in our history and also in the world this year.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0538par0061	May my Lord bless you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0533par0062	I hope so. Now, in these studies, we're going to open about 40 wells in total, but some of our deputies just said, "How do you get this out?" I remember those MPs, they said, "You can't call." They said, "You can't find it." They said, "We found it. Now you can't." They say, "You can't." We'll get it out just the way we found it." [[From the AK PARTY ranks, (Bravo) applauds, applause, and applause from the MHP ranks]] As for energy efficiency and sustainable environment issues, another issue that we're focusing on is energy efficiency, and we aim to meet its growing energy demand by assessing our resources with efficient, sustainable and intelligent technologies. As part of our belief that we need to draw our energy density to the level of developed countries and energy efficiency as an important supply source, we need to create 1 unit product in industry, agriculture, in other areas of production, or 1 unit of illegal domestic product by using less energy; we need to meet our basic needs in housing, such as heating, cooling and lighting. It is also important to develop awareness of social energy efficiency. As part of energy efficiency and sustainable use of resources, the implementation of all actions in the National Energy Efficiency Action Plan, which includes 55 actions, has been targeted to save about $30 billion by 2033, and some savings will continue until 2040. With the implementation of the actions involved in this plan, by 2023, greenhouse gas emissions will reduce 66 million tonnes of carbon dioxide and save 3 units of investment with 1 unit cost. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As Minister of Energy and Natural Resources of a country that heads at least carbon emissions, I'd like to point out that we've always been more responsible to the environment.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0539par0068	You've slaughtered the environment!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0533par0069	In this context, we will have largely completed our work on charge infrastructure before our local production electric vehicle, TOGG, which we consider to be a major environmental breakthrough, is released from the band.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0539par0070	You've poisoned Aydin!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0533par0071	There is no doubt that technology is at the beginning of the development of the respectable ready to mark the period of the plague, when the balances are being restored. If we take it from our own sector, a transformation of technology at the center will give us new opportunities for a more competitive and environmentally sustainable energy future in the post-infected period. With the outbreak of Covid-19, domestic production and the efforts of countries to create their own autonomy have become more important than ever before. Now, we have to make sure the technology is local as well as the source. In Turkey, we see three issues critical for the development of technology, innovation and RD. These are institutionalization, culture and participation in these issues, in order to serve the country and humanity in the field of energy, mineral, ionizing radiation, particle accelerators and nuclear technology, to maintain and maintain Turkey's competitiveness, to ensure the creation and development of new products, to provide scientific environment for researchers, to co-operate with public and private law people, to co-ordinate and promote these research, to make scientific, technical and administrative work, to make sure that Turkey's energy and NATEN are united under one roof and under the development of new products, Turkey's Energy and Research Foundation. (PARTI) In the fields of energy and natural resources, R&D studies, the co-ordination and co-operation between institutions will be stronger, and the work of R&D will be collected in a single pool, and the labor and cost will be the most effective. Mr. President, the precious lawmakers, we continue our intensive search and production efforts for industrial raw materials, metallic minerals, energy raw materials and geothermal resource potential to be introduced and restored to our economy. In this area, more than 1 million metres were drilled in 2019 as a result of efforts to identify our underground resources across the country, while 770,000 meters were drilled in the first ten months of 2020. As part of an aerial geophysical imaging study, over 1 million kilometers of data were flown in 2019 and 2020, and the entire country's sale was x-rayed, geophysical maps were prepared and detailed. Mr. President, respected lawmakers have also been made necessary improvements in the safety of the business through regulations to ensure that mining activities, which are a more risky task force than other sectors.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0540par0075	Did you pay for the soccer miners?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0533par0076	In the first ten months of 2020, over 4,500 have been audited and a significant reduction in accident rates has been made under constant audits for mining businesses. Mining products, industry, energy, agriculture and construction, which play an important role in our country's development, are the main entries in the industry. It is in our legislation to claim our mines along with nature, in which conditions for mining activity can be carried out, and the mining activities in our country are also in this direction.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0541par0078	You've finished the ceremony!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0533par0079	Taking into account our subterranean wealth, our above-ground wealth, we work with the ministries and institutions concerned with the best options for our country and our nation.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0541par0080	You've finished the ceremony! Did you leave Mera back home?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0533par0081	With the implementation of projects that will allow critical and strategic minerals to be processed inside the country, we will export our mines abroad, not as raw materials, but as extreme products or high-tech products. Through this model, employment will increase, the growth of the industry and our country, and most importantly, the production and use of high-tech technology in our country. In this case, 11 extreme product productions have been conditional tenders and new tenders will continue to be made with this model.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0542par0083	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0533par0084	The Bor Karbür Productions Facility, which we laid the foundation on in October last year, will be activated by the end of 2021, and we will be moving from high-end products to high-tech products to add to this facility. In addition, a new method of production has been developed and the pilot production facility has been completed by our three-year-old RD studies on regaining the lithium from the boron mine during the production of refined borons. And yesterday, my friends brought me the first product, which I'm about to share with you in question-and-answer. Because lithium, especially electric cars, is a very critical raw material in the production of batteries used in mobile smart devices. Turkey faces about a thousand tonnes of imports a year. Our pilot manufacturing facility is now producing only 10 tons, but with new information and findings from the pilot manufacturing facility, hopefully, we'll be able to increase capacity to 600 tons/years as soon as possible...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0542par0087	Complete.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0533par0088	...and we will be able to produce almost 60 percent of the products we import from local sources. Dear lawmakers, our Ministry is pursuing its aim to achieve and use public resources as effectively, economically and efficiently as possible, in line with policy and goals involved in development plans and programmes. Our ministry's budget budget for 2019 is 2 billion 914 million 663 thousand Turkish liras, which have been spent $2 billion 732 million,150,000,399, which has not been spent, has been cancelled at the end of the year. Based on these precise account figures, our rate of budgeting in 2019 has been 94 percent. (Applause from the EC PARTY) Our ministry's budget bid for 2021 is 3 billion 999 million 188 thousand liras, and the total budget offered along with MAPEK, MTA, TENAK, EPDK and NDK is 5 billion 61,810,000 Turkish liras. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My last words, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0543par0092	Let's say hello, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0533par0093	As I end my words here, I wish the budget of 2021 would be a blessing for our nation, our state and our ministry, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0544par0095	Mr. Secretary, the people who are finished with the JES in Aydın will not forget you. You have finished the Enlightenment, and these people will not forget you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0543par0096	The second word for the executive is for Minister of Family, Work and Social Services Mr. Zehra Emerald Selçuk. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Your time is forty minutes. Thank you. Mr. President, I stand before you to discuss 2020 years of activities and targets of 2021, which are carried out by our family, the Ministry of Labor and Social Services, as part of the 2021 Central Management Budget Proposal talks. First, I learned with great regret that two of our soldiers were killed and that eight of our soldiers were wounded as a result of an attack by the terrorist organization in the Peace Fountain. I pray to God for our martyrs, and for our wounded, and for the speedy healing. We, the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services, take responsibility to protect family, generation, children, women, disabled, elderly, workers, employers, pensioners, job seekers, needs, relatives, and veterans. We also call our efforts to protect all these communities "social protection." In this way, we aim to achieve social development and improve social well-being as part of our understanding of the social state. The ultimate goal of our policies as ministry is the happy individual, compatible family and prosperous society. In this sense, all of our work is based on quadruple hair, including working life, social security, social services, social benefits. As you know, in the year 2020, we fought a global pandemic that we had never experienced before, and we continue to. I'd like to thank all of our colleagues once again, especially those of our health workers, our social workers, who worked at the very first stage of this period. I pray that all our citizens who have lost their lives will receive God's mercy and my condolences to their relatives, to heal our patients from the Lord. As of today, the total amount of resources that we've passed directly to our citizens are now nearing 45 billion dollars, based on all the consultations we've developed as part of the social protection shield we've taken into existence. Thus, we quickly carried out effective practices such as short work grants, dissolution cuts, cash support, normalisation support. We've accelerated the methods of short work practices.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0545par0106	The workers live on $39 a day, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0546par0107	Can I have your attention?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0545par0108	We'll talk any way we want, we won't ask your permission, Mrs. Razza. At the same time -- as you can see here -- we've paid more than $3.5 million for more than $23 billion of our employees on the short work grant, and we've started to re-investigate the process by December 1st to speed it up. For the first time, we're applying for short work grants as a innovation through the e-state. Again, in order for our workers to keep their jobs, to protect our workers, we've given them a contract of dissolution, and in the process, we've given them cash support. We've paid over 2 million employees with over 6.4 billion cash fees. But we want our economy to spin its wheels fast, so we can get back to normal. Thus, we aim to prevent the loss of revenue by our workers and to increase our economy's production capacity by recovering faster. And in that sense, we've started our normalization support, and so far we've given about 2 billion support to over 2.5 million of our employees. What does that also mean? The short study also shows that 2.5 million of our 3.5 million employees -- a large majority of them -- are now reduced to the effects of short work and are becoming normalized -- much of our economy is becoming normalized. At the same time, we've postponed payments on three months of SGO bonuses, totaling $40 billion in businesses that are very affected by the epidemic. Here I want to emphasize once again that, whether it's a short work grant or a cash allowance, they're a source of direct transfer to our employees. We've activated our new employment package. This package also includes six main incentives and supports to prevent unemployment and reduce unemployment and maintain employment. We also brought a configuration of about $290 billion worth of SGK. At this time, social security practices in our social protection shield were important, and at this point, we especially extended the health reports and prescriptions of our disabled, chronic patients. We've made arrangements in various rest reports, relieved the conditions of the unemployment allowance, and most importantly, we've made sure that the diagnosis and treatment services provided as an emergency and that there are no additional fees taken from our citizens. We've doubled the I.C.U. treatment fees. Other than that, we've put all the medications used to treat Covid-19 patients -- including plasma treatment -- on our repayment list. I'd like to point out at this point that all of the payments we've made under general health insurance have been over $4.4 billion so far, but no one's ever been able to figure out how to make these payments under general health insurance. This is not done with a sinking SGK, but with a functioning, sustainable SGK. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Covid-19's disease affected those with older and chronic ailments, so we especially increased the measures in our social services, which, as the World Health Organization says, led the country to the least affected countries in our nursing homes, compared to the elderly deaths in our nursing homes. And as part of our social welfare policy, we quickly, quickly started our pandemic social support program through the e-state. Here I want to point out another point: In the process, the integrated system of our Social Aids General Directorate was able to benefit from ISKUR and the SGK databases at the same time, allowing us to get social benefits to the right households quickly. At some point, the number of our social needs, the number of our poor, was not increasing, because of Covid, and so we had to support all of our employees who needed a periodical, closed-down business. So we've been transparently receiving applications from all of our citizens through the e-state, and they've been evaluated by our welfare and solidarity foundations. So applications received via the e-state gate were evaluated by the foundations in the provinces and districts, providing more than 6.3 billion dollars in cash support. Plus, we had our periodic shares in the foundations, and we also made distributions to the $2 billion campaign. In order to be with our women in the process, we have especially increased the monthly volume of our women-focused welfare programs, like what? We've increased our money support for women whose wives have passed away by 20 per cent; we've increased the money of our needy soldier children by 50 per cent; we've increased the money of their military families by 45 per cent; we've increased the support of orphans and orphans by 50 per cent; we've increased our aid by 30 per cent, such as pregnancy, lochism -- in order to get more for our women during the pandemic period. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As for working peace, of course, in working life, the most important denominator of employment is our institutions in working life. We believe in a solution-oriented, innovative approach with all social parties in order to boost work peace. In this direction, we have implemented many important regulations that have improved the rights of our employers since 2002. If we look at the current arrangements in working life today in 2021, we will have left the 9th year of Unions No. 6356 and the Law on Collective Business, the 18th year of Labour Law 4857, the 20th year of Public Servants' Unions No. 4688, and the 20th year of the Law on Public Contracts, the 56th year of the Law on State Officials, 657. Working life is a very dynamic process. We know that 65 percent of the children entering primary school today will work in jobs that don't exist right now, and different skills will come out. Therefore, we need to prepare our children, our future, our young people for this dynamic process, and adapt to a process that is changing so quickly, to improve our economy's endurance, and to review and update our labour legislation in the framework of social dialogue, protecting the rights and law of our employees. Also, completing the digital transformation of working life will contribute to the spread of union organisation. One of the best examples of this is the e-state transactions in labor unions. As of November, we began to receive applications for the determination of official mediation from the e-state. We also launched the Electronic Public Employment Portal Project, which spans 2021-2022, to make the maximum use of technological advances in public recruitment. So we care deeply about unionization in terms of our understanding of participating democracy and the rights of our employees. Our country has 19 confederations, 507 trade unions, and as of 2020, workers and civil servants have reached 22 per cent in total, with a growing number of members two times higher. We're talking about a labor unionist who has reached 1 million to 1.9 million members; an officer who has reached 2.6 million from 1.3 million. And this is a clear indication of how much we've opened up to union activity, with two-fold increased membership numbers. At the same time, we care about going through problems one by one. We get together with social parties -- like the Public Staff Advisory Board, Labor Council -- and this year, for the first time in history, we have the Public Staff Advisory Board on the agenda. We also consult with our fellow workers, employer representatives, our academics, public institutions and institutions and all concerned parties during the work-life meetings we started this year. As you know, our minimum wage negotiations have begun. We, the Ministry, also play referee for minimum wage. Hopefully, this year will result in the compromise of our employee and employer representatives. It started on December 4th this year, and the minimum wage will be announced by the commission, along with the last meeting in December. As for public employment, we have witnessed how critical our public resources played a role during the Covid epidemic, with an increase of 2.6 million in public employment in 2002, up to 60 per cent, and therefore prioritized the employment of qualified personnel. When we look at it, we have 364% of nurses in the last 18 years, 132% of judges and prosecutors, 174% of doctors, 69% of teachers. So I'd like to thank our public officials once again for their selfless work in the Covid-19 epidemic. Because our greatest value, our greatest strength, is our human resource, and with that understanding, we are precluded in a work-friendly growth, a development based on a qualified human resource. But one thing we have to remember is that with the influence of our young and dynamic population, an average of 500,000 people are involved in our labour market every year. As of August 2020, our workforce was 31.7 million, our employment was 27.5 million; today TÜİK announced its new values. But as we look at it, with an increase in the number of insurance holders that started in May, as the normalisation began in June, our insurance numbers began to increase, and in September 2020, our service workers increased by 1 million people compared to May. So we're packing up fast, I hope.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0547par0128	There are 10 million unemployed, Mr. Secretary, 10 million! We have brokered a total of 9.5 million people in the private sector, including 3 million young people, and more than half of them are women. Again, despite the outbreak of Covid, we have located 800,000 of our citizens this year.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0548par0130	Is that another Turkey you're talking about?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0549par0131	Turkey... Turkey...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0550par0132	In Turkey, where you can't live?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0551par0133	You don't know the world. This is our number of jobs -- 2018 values, 2019 values -- we have a growing business every year. We have more than 800,000 jobs in this year's case against Covid. So that's how the numbers work.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0552par0136	Do the AKP people have a condition or not, Mr. Secretary? Again, we're fighting off unregistered employment because we believe in the incentive of registered employment because one point in non-registered employment makes our economy 4.3 billion. So it doesn't work. You're not sending it to a review. With the inspectors you call it, we've reduced the off-book employment to 32.2 percent by September 2020, 20 points down. Is that enough? It's not enough. But we're going to go further, and we're going to reduce non-registered employment to even more minimal numbers.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0553par0139	Mr. Secretary, 13 million people are working off the books. THE FAMILY, WORKING AND SOCIAL INVESTIGATION -- part of the elements that affect unemployment in our country are conjunctural and part structural. So we start a lot of programs to protect jobs, reduce unemployment...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0554par0141	Republic history has record unemployment. How you reduce it, it increases. AND at this point, we are increasing the number of national professional standards and national competence documents in terms of the professional competence system and the operational and passive labour programmes of our institution, and because we believe in qualified employment, and because we believe in professional employment. Currently, we have 1.3 million professional competencies. Hopefully, in 2021, we'll raise this number to 1.5 million people, and I'll point out that we're paying the fees, the costs, the 900 million as a government.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0555par0144	A worker hanged himself in Samsun!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0554par0145	No work, work! Young people are unemployed, women are unemployed! Again, whether it's a vocational training program for active and passive programs, whether it's an entrepreneurial education program, business and professional advice, we're taking advantage of all our citizens here, both active and passive programs.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0556par0148	We're gonna listen to you?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0554par0149	Aren't we going to pay for this? Aren't we going to answer for the unemployed, the women? The amount of funds we've transferred to the active labour force programme is now over 11 billion dollars. The fact that 75 per cent of those participating in our work-based training programmes are still employed shows the programme's effectiveness in employment support. [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP rows]] Is that the way it is, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0557par0153	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0558par0154	People commit suicide, people commit suicide because of unemployment!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0559par0155	This is the lady speaking, ma'am!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0560par0156	What kind of disrespect is that?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0561par0157	He hung himself from unemployment!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0562par0158	And you're CHP's yeller? Are you the shouting officer of the CHP?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0563par0159	Is he lying?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0562par0160	Mr. Free, please!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0564par0161	If you'll excuse me, members of the law...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0562par0162	Hey, Mr. Free, come take a look from here!
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0565par0163	I've told you a hundred times.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0562par0164	But that's it! Murat Çepni Bey is the shouting officer of HDP, Burcu Hanım and CHP.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0566par0165	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. We've increased the number of business and occupational counselling, business clubs and SECRU campuses, each of which has doubled. Our business clubs are now in 68 provinces, our ISKUR campus units are in 73 counties, and hopefully in 2021, all of our provinces will be in both our business clubs and our ISKUR campuses and units. What do we prioritize in 2021 as part of ISKUR's active programs: once, we will increase our sector-based work-based training programmes, prioritize our special policy-seeking groups, women, young people, disabled. This year, we've also transferred close to 100 million resources to our disability grant support, which we've raised to $65,000 per head, and we're carrying this into the e-state, and we want to support the entrepreneurialism of our more disabled. We want to prepare our young people for the future's professions, but we're also going to do our projects so we don't forget the traditional professions that are about to disappear. The other thing is, we have passive programs. What are our passive programs? The programs we've been implementing to provide income support for our temporarily unemployed citizens, such as unemployment grants, short work grants, cash-paying support, are passive labor-force programs. About 81.5 billion dollars from 2002 to today, 82 billion dollars were transferred to our passive labor programs, and half of that 82 billion dollars were transferred this year, 41.3 billion dollars -- more than half -- to our citizens in 2020. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You're always asking what's the purpose of the unemployment fund? Why is it wasted there? Because unemployment insurance Fund's goal is to protect employment. Protecting employment is not only the government, but the employer's and the worker's common goal, in fact, to protect employment. With this consciousness, the Unemployment Insurance Fund consists of 2 per cent employers, 1 per cent government, 1 per cent workers' share, so it has a 50 per cent, 25 per cent contribution, 25 per cent benefit in the creation of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. The three structures that contributed to the Fund -- the employer, the worker, and the state -- are also responsible for controlling the costs of the Fund, which is responsible for providing effective and accurate management of the source. So this Fund consists of representatives of workers and employers outside the state outside the public, and, of course, it's being audited by the Court. The resources of our active and passive workforce programmes are from the unemployment benefit Fund, as stated in the law.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0567par0172	What about the weight of the benefits of unemployment benefit?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0568par0173	That's the worker's fund, the worker's.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0569par0174	For one thing, the unemployment fund is an unfunded source, unfunded. Now, the distribution of the Fund is as follows: the employer's bonus, state bonus, employee bonus, other revenues and interest revenues, and our entire unemployment insurance fund, all of that. It's a non-budget source, it's a non-budget source.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0570par0177	How did you use it? How? That's our word. Now they say, at the unemployment Fund, you give to the employer. But I'll tell you the distribution: now, we're looking at 50 percent, 25 percent, 25 percent, 25 percent, but we're giving the 25 percent to the worker, and the government is giving to the employee 17 percent of the 25 percent of the 25 percent, and the employer's share goes to the employer again. So when we look at what's happening, we have a number that goes from 50 to 25 to 25 percent to 27-66-8 percent when we look at where the cost goes, where the source goes, where it's channeled. So many of our resources actually go to the employer. At this point, one of our most important issues in the Covid-19 outbreak is occupational health and safety. In addition to legislation and supervision alone, occupational health and safety, we need to create a serious awareness and awareness.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0571par0180	What about the work killings? So we're doing a lot of work to spread the culture of business health and safety, and we're dealing with awareness studies. At the same time, we authorize higher education programmes, growing occupational health and safety professionals, and we authorize our joint health and safety units in this area.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0572par0182	Mr. Secretary, tell me about the budget, not the budget, not the non-budget resources. At present, our number of workplaces in occupational health and safety services has increased by 7.5 times. The fatality rate in 100,000 has been cut in half.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0573par0184	2,000 people died, Mr. Secretary; 2,000 people died in 11 months for job murder. No solution, no solution! Another issue is to establish a sustainable social security system. As you know, the social security system is, in fact, a social security system developed by the social system against social risks. So in order to do that, we did social security reform, and we strengthened the financial structure, and we made great progress in social insurance and health insurance. And now that we're looking at it, we have a social security system in our social security system -- when we were talking about 99, which you're talking about -- when we came in 2002, we had 70 percent of the social security coverage, and now we have a 99% social security system. The contract 102 of ILO is considered eight basic social risks, such as occupational hazards and occupational illness, motherhood, sickness, disability, old age, death, family burdens and unemployment. When we look at this now: there is an international contract that we are taking effect in 1975, and again, the Constitution, which took effect in 1982, has the right to social security. It is said that everyone has the right to social security. But in the process, the government of Recep Tayyip Erdogan has carried out governments. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, when we come to power, we're going to live up to the family insurance. We're listening to it with a smile because our valued deputies are now family insurance in Turkey. To see this, they can read Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510, the Law on Unemployment 4447, our Social Services Act 2828, and our Enforcement and Solidarity Act. Thus, the family insurance system, which provides social protection against all social risks in the contract of the ILO (ILO) that must be implemented, is run by our current EC PARTY governments.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0574par0190	Can you account for the people who died in the labor killings? Friends, the sun is not covered with clay, Turkey has succeeded, and Turkey will achieve greater reforms. This is not just the success of the political staff, but the success of our officers, our workers, our employers, our workers, our workers, our workers, our workers, our workers, our workers, together, in short, let us be proud of it.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0573par0193	What did he accomplish?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0575par0194	People are hungry, people are committing suicide. We're looking at Turkey's social security system. What was Turkey's security system in the 1999s? What kind of success? People live under the hunger line. FAMILY, WORKING AND SOCIAL INVESTIGATIONS ZEHRA ZEHRA ZEHRA - 64% of their income costs, and the percentage of their bonus revenues is 55 percent because of the president of the SGK who ran it so well! (AK PARTI) At the end of the year 2020, the estimate is that despite all of our funding transfers of the Covid-19 epidemic, the rate of revenues of the social security system is 84 per cent, and the rate of premium revenues is 66 per cent to cover pension and health expenses is 66 per cent.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0576par0199	It's $70 billion open, Mr. Secretary, that's all that matters. You're financing from the budget. So despite our struggle with this whole Covid-19 epidemic, we're still in a financially and structurally sustainable system and our active balance is stable. Dear lawmakers, we have raised the area of coverage to 99 per cent in 1999. The numbers that are active, passive-insuranced, and obliged to look have also increased during the same period. So we have a comprehensive and efficient social security system, and we have understood in this pandemic period how important this social security system is, especially in terms of general health insurance. Without social security, our citizens -- including family members they are responsible for -- also benefit from all health services by paying only $88.29. So we have a health insurance system that we can call the Turkish miracle, which is called the GSS. At the same time, our amount of drugs under repayment exceeds 8,880, and our number of medical supplies is 4,833. Again, this year, with the Turkish Pharmaceuticals Association, we signed a four-year protocol with our pharmacists and provided them with an additional $235 million supply. So, what are we gonna do about it? We're doing drug consumption analysis right now, and we're also doing various revisions in general health insurance to assess our resources correctly. At the same time, in March 2020, we also made an improvement of between 10 per cent and 25 per cent in the entire 9.047 process, which was in the Health Application Act. The other point is the SGK. As you know, our number of services over the e-state was 142. We have now reached the number 146 by adding new applications on e-state in November 2020, and of the top 10 applications used on e-states, five of them are also the implementations of the SGK. Thus, we endeavor to provide better service to our citizens by making things easier and faster. Why are we doing all this? To protect all our citizens and protect our citizens, but also to protect our families, our future generations. We believe that Turkey is a large family of 83 million people, and we know the importance of the family in providing social development. In this sense, we provide family education. Again, we have supply-oriented services, not demand-oriented, like ASDEP. This year, our thousand ASDEP officers, a thousand ASDEP employees, our staff, are back in business. Next year, hopefully, they'll be on a thousand more ASDEP officers and join us as co-workers. Again, we've raised our social services centers to 354, and our goal is to get that number to 430, by 2023. We open family support centers and social support centers in our provinces. We now have 247 family support centers in 36 counties, 32 social support centers in 12 counties. We have 1.2 million young people in our pre-wedding program and 2 million in our family education program. Our activities, such as family counselling, also try to reduce the process of divorce and support our families. Again, we're doing family research, and we're particularly concerned about profiling and fighting addiction. We also try to protect our citizens from addiction through social services to protect our families and young people from drug and drug addiction. We are also conducting Turkey's anti-addict training in the Greenay cooperation, and we have reached 850,000 people, thanks to our cooperation with Greena. Again, there's been a lot of disasters this year, as you know. May my Lord protect our whole country from disasters. In accordance with the Turkish Disaster Response Plan, our Ministry is responsible for providing psychosocial support services in disaster and emergencies. So we continued to offer our psychosocial support to our citizens in every disaster region. As a result of all this, we also believe that we will be reunited with stronger countries, stronger families, stronger family structures. We also believe that our women are half of society, and that because we believe that they are the pillars of our families, it means the protection of the family that women value, and the rise of society.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0577par0206	Sir, in your time divorces have increased, families have been destroyed. As our President has always stated in a defense, we are not patriarchal or patriarchal, we are conscious of the fact that we are a family nation. When we look at history, our women are on the front lines of all areas from the founding of the state to the defense of the country. We also believe that strong women will become strong families and will form strong Turkey. And at this point, we're conducting all of our work. The indicators of our women's educational conditions show that both their reading and net schooling rates have improved greatly. Again, their access to health has increased in recent years. Another point is, in the last 18 years, we've seen more women in decision-making mechanisms. Today, 51 per cent of our researchers, 46 per cent of our lawyers, 43 per cent of our architects, 40 per cent of our public staff, 30 per cent of our insurance holders, and 17.3 per cent of our deputies are women, so we have better women everywhere but our Parliament. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As for working life, we believe that with all the incentive policies that we've implemented on women's employment have been met, we can increase both our employment numbers and participation in the labour force. In that sense, we're gathering the Women's Employment National Watch and Co-ordination Board at our Ministry. Women's employment is over 8.5 million, and of course we want to increase that number. We're also putting our women's lives into facilitating projects to ensure balance between work and family.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0578par0210	So you're saying you don't give out uninsured, unsecured jobs. FAMILY, WORKING AND SOCIAL INVESTIGATION IS a matter of great importance to women's cooperatives. One of the best examples of women's solidarity and enterprise is women's cooperatives. We, hopefully, have launched a new project that will cover the 2021-2023 years: the Women's Co-operative Way Enhancing Project, and in our provinces, 81 provinces, we've formed a group of women's cooperative groups. We made a visit to 216 women's cooperatives and supported the establishment of 121 new women's cooperatives. At the same time, we continue in the Seminars of Financial Reading and Economic Strength of Women. But other than that, of course, the most important thing is that our woman has value, that we can be there for her in the fight against violence. In general, we maintain our fight against violence, especially violence against women, at the highest level today, with our laws, institutions, NGOs, and academics, each of which is a dynamic tool in this struggle. The fight against violence is possible, but it is possible with the political contribution, support and will of all parts of society. So our struggle is a struggle followed by the principle of zero tolerance without allowing human life to be fueled by ideological debates and waste of time. Therefore, we will not allow any political arguments to be used against the woman, our fight against the woman with violence. Because we believe that violence is an infectious virus that is learned by sight, by watching, and also passed down from generation to generation. Therefore, we feel obliged to reduce the contagion of this virus and also break the chain of violence. Our coordination programs are running on this one, too. As institutional care, we continue to support women who need protection both in our women's homes and in our SUNIM. IN our 81 counties, we have expanded our cities. At the same time, we may not be able to stay in our districts, but also in our districts. This year, at 353 social services centers, we set up contact points in the fight against violence.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0577par0212	Seasonal farm workers women are miserable, hungry, hungry! So we're not only going to be able to reach our women anymore, we're going to be able to reach our women in our violent combat points in the district of 353. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We also specialize in our women's guesthouses. The most important thing at this point is awareness and sensitivity.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0579par0216	Your awareness is obviously for men! So as a result of all these points, we believe we need a total mobilization. For this reason, we have launched the Mercan campaign under the leadership of the Honorable Emine Erdogan Ma'am. Coral Expedition is not only fighting violence against women, it also aims to offer women's stories, opportunities to write their own success stories, to develop policies that balance business and family life, to make more applications in women's decision-making mechanisms, and to strengthen our women socioeconomically. So we believe that with the Coral Expedition and our projects under the Coral Expedition, we will strengthen our women further towards our 2023 goals. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our children are one of the most important things to our family as well as our women. We have about 23 million children in our country. So any opportunity they have is actually an investment in Turkey's tomorrow. You know we have a family-based idea of child protection. A child is an individual, a family is not based, a child has rights of his own. INTERVIEW OF FAMILY, WORKING AND SOCIAL INVESTIGATION -- our child-related services have increased by 91 per cent from 39 per cent. So, before we take our children into our care institutions, we'd rather give them social, economic support, which is now 130,000 of our children benefiting from social, economic support in Turkey, so we prefer to have their care taken care of in addition to their families.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0580par0222	Why did you put the kids in that position? Why did you condemn the children to that hunger? IF the family doesn't have care around the families, we take them into our institutions. Right now, the number of children with our adoption and foster homes is about 25,000.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0581par0224	Are you following those children, Mr. Secretary? In 15 counties, we have more children with foster care than we do with children. Thus, we have also made a major transformation in terms of child organizations, and we also serve nearly 14,000 children in our institutions. At the same time, there have been events that have made us very happy this year. One of them was that we had 30 children from our children in the LGS. (EA/DG) Again, 281 have succeeded in the university exams. So these are the joys that make our lives better. Hopefully, we'll see that our children in our institutions will be in better places. ▪ Our children are being begged in the streets. That's why we have mobile child welfare centers, and we're fighting child labor with these units, and we're also trying to prevent our children from being employed. Of course, it's important that our children fight not only child labor, but also in this era, in the digital age. This year, we, you know, had the Anti-Nurse Supplies Board, and we're starting a new project by developing it, and we said, "MIM, we wanted to put it in terms of fighting content. At this point, we will control digital content with the necessary institutions, and we will fight for more child-friendly publications, for the spread of child-friendly books. In that sense, we formed a social media study group and created an infrastructure for it. Hopefully, we'll be explaining the details of this in 2021 soon. So with this child protection system that we've built, both in social, economic support, both in adoption, foster care, and in institutional care, we believe with a comprehensive child protection system that, as they say, in the Republic of Turkey, no one is homeless. So we are always there for our children. And the other thing is that we're here for you, and we're there for you, and another part of our society is disabled. We're the first country to sign contracts on the rights of the disabled. This year we have also implemented the National Handicapped Data System, which is based on the disability health board reports, and we have also implemented a strategy document on the Documentary of Obstacle Vision, the Document of Age Vision.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0582par0230	Why don't you make the appointment of our disabled citizens?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0583par0231	You haven't even filled the disabled employment quota, even the employment quota is empty. We have over half a million people on home care right now, over 535,000 of our citizens on home care. They're talking about the Court's findings. I'll tell you this: We're paying 7.5 billion for 535,000 citizens. So I don't understand 8 billion corruptiones in a place where we pay 7.5 billion. It's that simple. You come in, you look at the disabled month, we pay 4.5 billion in disability allowances. And there's not 8 billion corruptiones that pay 4.5 billion.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0584par0233	They're accountants, Mr. Secretary, accountants. [[!]] Yeah, that's how they calculate because they're accountants. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] What's done is very simple. The Health Department and I have begun our own data exchange. So we integrate systems, and they've been paid since 1976, disability pensions. Home care has been paid since 2006. So we match the reports.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0585par0238	Women take over your disability care, you can't impose it on women. You'll be doing disability care in public. A system that has just begun. So just because all the reports didn't show up in a new system within a year doesn't mean there's no owner of these reports. We're talking about a digitalizing system. At the same time, we asked the Court to reach out to our citizens and return their disability reports to us. So all of our social welfare, our solidarity organizations are following our citizens. Again, we support the disabled in working life. Public employment, you know, has reached 57,000 levels of 5.777. Hopefully, we'll have another disability appointment in January, along with our quotas.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0586par0242	Here you go. We continue to support the job-finding processes of our obstacles, such as our family, work, and social services. We continued to be with our elders, especially the elders who stayed in the nursing home during the Covid process. Our older rates are increasing in Turkey. So, as our President says, our addiction rates... we have to increase our birth rate and also provide a better quality of service to our elders in order to maintain our democratic window of opportunity.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0587par0245	There is no toilet for the disabled in Şanlıurfa, Minister. We now have 25,000 employees in 415 thousand nursing homes, including private and public. I said it in detail in the Covid mention of benefits, but in Turkey, poverty, especially poverty, as expressed in international documents, is no longer a problem for Turkey. We're more interested in sharing prosperity and social assistance that aims to be there for our citizens in the event of an emergency in the process.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0588par0247	Will Covid-19 be considered a professional disease? We also aim to employ our citizens by establishing employment connections between the Department of Employment and Social Aid.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0589par0251	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0588par0252	The electricity bill...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0590par0253	Mr. Secretary, there is no bathroom for the disabled in Şanlıurfa. I ask you to make a toilet for the disabled in Şanlıurfa. Mr. President, we have martyrs again today, we have wounded, we have veterans. We support all of our citizens, our fellow martyrs, our veterans, our kinsmen, and we strengthen our ties by visiting them. In the year 2020 alone, we contacted over 100,000 martyrs, veterans, and we're always trying to protect their rights, to be there for them, to be there for them. With the resources we give them, we continue to protect them in this sense under the social protection shield. Because we consider them to be our country's trust. The other thing is...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0591par0256	Health workers, Mr. Secretary, will Covid-19 be suffering from occupational illness? There's no need for that kind of law here, right now I'm having a hard time understanding it. (CHP rows) Because there's a situation in Turkey called occupational illness, and there's a whole code. Two of our current officers have been declared duty-designed. We've already tied up your pensions.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0592par0260	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0591par0261	There's a bond there, Mr. Secretary, a bond of ill will. There's an application for the SGK. As a result of the application, necessary procedures are also made when the bond of illness is established. It's also a professional disease...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0593par0264	Why don't you count hepatitis and brusella, Mr. Secretary? So there's the same policy on application-based and occupational illness, which is what Social Security has on it, and that's what the regulations are all about. So, with the awareness of being a big family of 83 million, we believe that we will overcome this epidemic with the spirit of solidarity, that we will all come together. We have a strong and strong family structure, a young and dynamic workforce, and we have a whole set of values that advise us to protect our disadvantaged groups in any situation or condition. So we, the Ministry, continue our work with great zeal in consultation with all sides of socioeconomic development. Before I end my words, I would like to once again thank our health workers, social workers, and all my colleagues for their loyal work during the epidemic. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I would also like to thank all of our deputies, especially Plans and Budget Commission members, who have expressed their views during the talks of the budget law proposal. I wish the budget of 2021 to be good for our country, for our country, for our nation. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] And I give thanks to our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who, with his vision of all the services we offer as government, lead by will and determination, and salute our Veteran Assembly. [AK PARTY and MHP applause, applause from HDP rows!]
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0594par0273	It's Mr. Ayþe Driver who wants to speak against you. Here you go, Mr. Driver.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0595par0276	Mr. President, just a minute... [Bravo!]
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0596par0277	Mr. President, we need a break, a change of cast.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0594par0279	Mr. Group, we're going to get an assessment of the Vice Presidents.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0597par0280	I'm in, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0594par0281	It's just... Would you excuse me, sir? We would like you to consider these last moments in such a manner, both the time and the recurrence. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0598par0287	Mr. President, of course, as we have criticised, Mr. Ministers have some criticism when they respond to criticism, and we have to answer them, but let's just say to the question, is there a law? Having Parliamentary experience and having ministers come out of Parliament without exception would minimize such problems. Now, Mr. Secretary, one of the things that we really care about, the unemployment insurance fund, we hear you bring a defense to this, and you repeat here: 25 percent of the unemployment insurance fund, 25 percent of the workers, the employer, the public contribution. If you think of it this way, Mr. Secretary, if we symbolize it: everyone is throwing money into the child's piggy bank; they increase the child's allowance; their parents throw away money from the adults on the holiday.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0594par0290	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0598par0291	But this child, for example, when he expects an allowance from you for his report card, says, "Bring the piggy bank." He opens it, and from inside, "Al, this is your allowance." If you say, "This is your allowance," the child will rebel. What you're doing here is financing the employer from the employee's piggy bank, that's what we object to. Now, there's a painting you're proud of, you showed it. When we look at the social government approaches of countries around the world, it's not something to brag about, it's something to be ashamed of for us. But today, in the North Star District of Canik district of Samsun, Mr. Minister, a citizen hung himself in front of İMKB High School, unfortunately, four letters came out of his hand: work has written. Do you know what happened today when Turkey trembled? We say: "We don't have the places, we can't make it, we'll cry, we'll cry. But today, Genghis Construction, whose government has paid $425 million in taxes, has taken its third plane. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm almost done.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0599par0295	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0598par0296	The jet's worth $370 million, fellas. We wiped out 425 million TL, he bought a luxury plane of 370 million TL; a citizen died in Samsun, he wrote it in his hand, he wrote it in his hand, he wrote it in his hand. Mr. Secretary, in this painting you're proud of, the workers are committing suicide. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Minister of Energy, we've listened to your presentation; there are a lot of places we don't agree with, but the direct bullying, you showed our group, and you said: "When you arrive, you will extinguish 8 of the 10 lamps. Know this: When we arrive, 8 of the 10 lamps burn with clean, renewable energy. But not the ones who poison the provinces with coal, not the ones who retreat to the side and dry the streams. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Last one, last one.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0600par0301	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0598par0302	... nottheressesofthebirds whokilledandkilledthebirds, nottheones whokilledthebirds; nottheworshipofthe figsinin Aydın, nottheJES, the enemy of the grape in Manisa, but the friend of nature, who has been properly taken from the country, not the donkey of the peasant; the real, clean, renewable lights will burn in our power. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] And the only light bulb that's gonna go out is your party's light bulb that's killing people. We walk not to the light bulb that feeds on the blessing of power, but to the beautiful, sunny, bright days that feed on the gratitude of the people.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0600par0306	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0601par0308	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, they can't really brag enough! We've listened to the ministers; in fact, I've often stopped saying the name of the country, but I felt myself in Switzerland or Norway. We had no problems; no unemployment, no poverty, no hunger, women were not killed, women were given all kinds of education; so what do we tell? Just a few data for you, Mr. Ministers: Wasn't 29 women killed in November in this painting you're telling me about? According to Turkey's Financial Inequality and Poverty Report, 16 million people are poor and 18 million people are at risk of poverty. You can't be too proud. Now, the other, in the first 30 counties -- we told you yesterday -- the cities where Kurds live are dense, the cities where Kurds live are not in the order of socioeconomic development.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0600par0311	Here you go, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0601par0312	How many workers died? In the last three years, 2,006 people died in 2018, 1,736 people in 2019, 1,493 workers in the first nine months of 2020. Yeah, now this is all about pride, really! The other issue is that Turkey has an energy shortage, and there's actually no shortage of Turkey's energy, there's more. Turkey has not been able to catch half its growth goal. The vast majority of renewable power plants are HESEs, and most of the companies supported as part of SECDEM are HES companies. Solar energy panels are being installed on farmland, again on JES (see Verse 2) and plants near settlements and farmland. Now, you've evaluated the products from the processing of waste tires from here since 2016, with the definition of "biocute" and from here, as part of MEK and YEKDEM. They are neither biomass nor food. In terms of renewable energy, funds are actually being transferred to companies that destroy our waters, our streams.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0600par0315	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0601par0316	I'm ending it, Mr. President. Yes, the rate of using fossil fuels to show that it produces too much in the international public has been increased and nature is contaminated. That's what we've done with our opposition to all of this. A picture of poverty: M. He sentenced the T. (at age 40) for violating the restrictions. There's a lot of examples here. Last question, Mr. President. Mr. Minister said: I understand that covid-19 is actually a professional illness of two physicians, in terms of occupational health and safety.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0602par0321	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0601par0322	Now, if occupational health and safety Act 6331 applies, will Covid-19 now be considered a professional disease for health workers? Is that what you mean, is that true or is that true for all of the workers? This is a very important thing. If so, I'd like to ask why it hasn't been implemented so far. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from HDP rows]] 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Nuclear Organising Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account MIDDLE DETECTIVE AND EARCH GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2019 Central Management Predictable Account ÜRKEY ATOM INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Occupational Qualification Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Occupational Qualification Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account EVLET PERSONEL PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2019
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0603par0363	On behalf of the individuals, the last word against you is Mr. Ayşe Dürdurfa MP.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0604par0364	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0605par0365	Mr. President, about that...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0603par0366	After Mr. Driver...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0604par0367	Mr. President, but there was no congressman.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0603par0368	Here you go, Mr. Driver.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0606par0370	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute our people who are watching us at the beginning of their screens and our friends who are held hostage in prisons, our co-chairs Selahattin Demirtaş, Figen Yüksekdağ, Sebahat Tuncel, Gültan Kışanak, Ayla Akat and Beyza Üstün. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Today is December 10th, World Human Rights Day. I'd like to begin by wishing that human rights violations throughout the world, especially our country, will end. Torture is the beginning of the greatest human rights violations. Systematic torture is under way in the province where I am his successor. Torturers are not punished, they are not punished, and their policies continue. The clearest example of this situation is in the city where I was chosen. On May 18, 2019, the house of 51 of our citizens was raided and they were beaten and taken into custody in front of their children and families. Those taken into custody have been subjected to tortures that have been considered a crime against humanity in the Fairfax TEM branch. These people were tortured from electric shocks to all kinds of rude beatings. 37 people who were recently tortured have been ruled untraceable from the alleged crimes, or rather the allegations, so the charges against them have been nullified. But the officers who did these tortures were not subject to any investigations, and they did not answer, and their policy of punishment persisted. We'd like to ask what's going on here at Urbana TEM. Who is this torture team? There's a special team in this department that's doing surveillance for fun. He's systematically implementing any inhumane torture. Surveillance footage from the Urban Police Department has been attempted to be abducted. Despite the Baron's application, these surveillance tapes are not being submitted to the file. The government, which calls torture zero tolerances, encourages torturers by not investigating or interfering with the open tortures in Urbana. We, the HDP, are determined not to let this go. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) We will be followers of this event until all officials are tried and punished in this torture against humanity in Halfeti. Yes, friends, in 18 years, the government, which has been trying to remove women from employment, public space and politics and to shut them home, continues to do all the opposition in Turkey, especially the rising opposition of women, political operations. The reason for one of the operations carried out in my constituency of Urbana is that at the age of 65, a sick prisoner in Hilvan Prison is to pay his respects to Emine Aslan Aydoğan, who lost his life. Emine was a valuable mother who was 65 years old and you didn't release her even though she was seriously ill and she died in agony while she was under arrest. Since they went to pay their condolences on the establishment of Kızıltepe, the four Peace Mothers, who had been in Urbana, were kept in prison for nine days with no pandem and no risk group. The 65 - year - old Justice Tea was sentenced to house arrest, and three other mothers were ordered to sign three days a week. The AKP's power, which released thousands of murderers, abusers at the beginning of the pandemic, is punishing the women, these pandemic mothers, who have turned into crises. As for Kurdish mothers seeking peace, there is no law, no reform. Only anti-Kurdish law applies to Kurdish law. We know very well that you took the courage to attack women out of fear.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0607par0374	Tell me about the mothers of Diyarbakır, the mothers waiting in Diyarbakir.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0606par0375	You want to withdraw from the Istanbul Convention and leave women vulnerable, and because you're so afraid of women, you try to lock them up in prisons. It's been years, but it's not going to go on like this.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0607par0376	You're living in a fantasy world.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0606par0377	We will defend both the Istanbul Convention and the women and our gains to the full. You need reform in conscience, not law, because there's no way to explain this with law, with law.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0607par0378	You're disrespectful.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0606par0379	Yes, our Peace Mothers have a message for you: They will never stop shouting peace and setting up sets in front of the war with their white nets. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0608par0382	Mr. Can...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0609par0385	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute the General Assembly. According to Articles 60 and 61, the last word is for the MP. And we're not bothered by our congressman friend's speech. After the government talks, a congressman's speech is fundamental, and that's the truth. But if the MP's name wasn't announced, then a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, or a member of the group from another group, could have spoken for him, but that wasn't done. Therefore, according to me, according to the Civil Law, the practice is in that context. I made a promise to keep the light moving forward. Again, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0610par0389	You haven't claimed the Constitution yet, and you're inviting us to talk on stage?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0611par0390	Thank you, Mr. Can. 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Nuclear Organising Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account MIDDLE DETECTIVE AND EARCH GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2019 Central Management Predictable Account ÜRKEY ATOM INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Occupational Qualification Institution 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Occupational Qualification Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account EVLET PERSONEL PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 Congressmans, the talks in the third round are complete. Now, let's move on to the question-answer process. The first ten minutes of the QA will be reserved for questions, the last ten minutes for answers. Your Excessive...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0612par0432	Thank you, Mr. President. On the occasion of the 72nd anniversary of the adoption of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, I congratulate you on the Day of Human Rights of our citizens and of the nations of the world. Today, in particular, cultural racism, anti-foreignism, and anti-Islamic hostility in the West pose a major threat to humanity's common values. We are witnessing grave developments in which billions of Muslims are restricted their basic rights and freedoms, their sacred values are humiliated under the freedom of expression, and the language of hatred is encouraged. We find these developments alarming for all mankind, and we feel that effective mechanisms should be set up to address injustices. Turkey, our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, says that he will continue to oppose persecution, injustice and unlawfulness wherever he is in the world, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0613par0435	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0614par0436	I'd like to ask Mr. Cuts from electrical infrastructure in Düzce, the province after the Düzce earthquake in 1999, occur almost every day. The lack of transformer power in urban centers, especially in villages, is the main cause of these blackouts, as well as the old wiring and electric poles. In addition, the main streets in the centre of Düzce County do not match the air lines with one. In the youngest province of Düzce, these problems are chronicled because investments have been assessed according to the population as planned. Do you intend to make positive discrimination in the 2021 investment programme to address the electrical problems of Düzce? It's our first province in flat air pollution, do you have a plan to avoid air pollution by lowering gas subscription fees and gas cubic prices?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0613par0438	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0615par0439	I'd like to ask the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Services: Mr. Minister, the minimum wage for the work code 4857 is this: (The average wage for workers to pay for a normal working day and to provide them with a minimum amount of the necessary costs of the day, such as food, housing, clothing, health, transport and culture. Today, when we look at it, the minimum wage is 2,324 euros and 4 people can only provide food expenses, so the hunger limit is 2.482 euros. Today, 40 per cent of 20 million paid employees work for minimum wage and a minimum wage. So, this year, you're going to set up a minimum wage to starve the workers again? You boasted of short work grants, but we've left a lot of employees, unfortunately, at the mercy of the employer. There are Sinbo employees, for example, who are union members, so they're on mandatory leave of absence. What do you say about that? What is your attitude on this matter? Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0616par0442	Mr. Fendoglu...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0617par0443	Thank you, Mr. President. To our Minister of Energy and Natural Resources: In our district of Malatya Kuluncak, the quarry, mines and marble businesses, especially in rural areas, the Metropolitan Municipality is creating costs that require constant maintenance and maintenance, using neighborhood roads that are entirely responsible for construction and maintenance, and those costs are entirely up to the Metropolitan Municipality and the municipalities concerned. Do you plan to do a study on transferring a part of the state's rights and the private administration portion of the state rights, given to private municipalities by Article 3213 of the Mining Law, to other routes other than the Ministry's neighborhood roads, and the construction of substructures and coatings in the neighborhoods where municipal companies will use neighborhood roads?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0618par0446	Mr. Axeman...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0619par0447	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question will be to Mr. In Kastamonu, where you came to ask for support for AKP candidates before the 31st of March local elections, both the vehicle and the Ihsangazi districts have been reflected in the public where you promised natural gas. Will you keep your promise? When will both the car and Ihsangazi come to our district with natural gas? My next question is Mr Selçuka. In the municipalities in Kastamonun, staff employment under TYP ended after March 31, 2019. Is the loss of 8 municipalities in Kastamonu districts and districts at a disadvantage behind this decision, the loss of 8 municipalities in Kastamonu, with local election results in the country? In addition, Mr. Secretary, has anyone ever tested positive for Covid-19 in Kastamonu Nursing Home, and lost their lives to the elderly and the needy and the staff?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0620par0451	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0621par0452	Thank you, Mr. President. When will the districts of Manavgat, Alanya, Gazipaşa and Anamur, which were held in the construction of our Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, take natural gas? The answer to our question in the Plan and Budget Commission has been welcomed by our community by the conclusion of detail engineering and publicisation in November 2021 and the end of the process of construction in late 2023. They give you their thanks and greetings. As a result of hydrocarbon search in the Black Sea and the Mediterranean, the TPAO Conqueror Drillship was discovered and in the Sakarya Field, 405 billion cubic metres of natural gas reserves were discovered and the largest discovery in the world in 2020. This discovery has been proud in our entire nation.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0622par0456	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0623par0457	Thank you, Mr. President. I pray to God for our martyrs, and to our veterans for speedy healing. The seeds of social life and the soil are family. The family must be built like a first base, protected as the last fort. If the family falls, society collapses, the government collapses. In modern times, families melt away in perception and reality. This malfunctioning understanding and operation has also infected our country and our society. Many women, men, fathers, children and young people have become more than just sons. We need to protect and improve the family that is the core of the community tree. A new structure that suits our essence is essential. The openings of modernism and the phenomenon of family and women have made any work in this area necessary. The Western impersonation of modernity has brought chaos, not freedom.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0622par0459	Mr. Tutdere...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0624par0460	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister of Family, Labor and Social Services: Will you hear the voice of social worker, psychologist, child developmentist, nurse, physical therapist, dieticians waiting for a staff from your Ministry? When are you going to open the staff to fulfill the hopes of our young people? Do you intend to announce a support package for the poor, the unemployed, the underprivileged? You said there was family insurance in your speech. If the family has insurance, how much are the families paid per month? How many families benefit from this insurance in Turkey? My other question is to the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources: Will you do a procedure about the village of Hamzalar, Hasanlar for years in the dark, which does not give electricity? When are you going to give the power to our bladder?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0625par0463	Mr. Self-Subject...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0626par0464	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, two of our heroic soldiers were killed and eight of our heroic soldiers were injured in the attack of the PKK/PYD terrorist organization at the checkpoint in Operation Peace Fountain. I offer God's mercy to our martyrs, my condolences to their families and to our nation. I wish the wounded a speedy recovery. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0627par0467	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0628par0468	Mr. Secretary, his dead father Ali Grass is 804 lira, his father Hajrullah Evran is 900 lira, his dead father Mehmet Şahin is 920 lira, his deceased mother Saliha Taşbaş is paid 850 lira. There are thousands of examples like this. If you consider these salaries worthy of their martyr parents, we have nothing to discuss with you. If you don't see fit, why do you keep paying the same salary? When will the rights of 19,000 non-aggressive veterans, who you visit in hospitals and don't give an inch and an inch? Our Dinar gas has requested an electric chair for Nuri Karakaş, who has reported it to you in writing, but has not been able to send an electric chair to our gas for weeks, what does the General Directorate of Martyrs and Veterans do? Waiting for the appointment, our disabled brothers want at least 10,000 appointments and a public disability quota raised to 6%. Do you have any work on this? When are you going to remove the blame barrier in front of them?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0627par0471	Mr. Orhan Light...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0629par0472	Thank you, Mr. President. It's World Human Rights Day. Unfortunately, rights violations in our country are on the verge. HDP Democratic Council of Local Governments and TJA member Rojbin Cetin (TJA) have been raided and shown to the press and public that while alone in the house, they were tortured with dogs. Rojbin Cetin was unlawfully detained without treatment, injured for 11 days, then arrested again illegally. Lawless is going on in prison. It has been reflected in the public opinion that hundreds of patients, such as the prisoner, are suffering from cancer, that they cannot be treated in prison, that they can't eat healthy, that they can't take their medication, that their health is worsening. As many patients are prisoners, it is clear that Cethin is not fit to remain in prison. Hunger strikes have begun in many prisons related to poor conditions, rights violations and isolation. The rights violations must be waived and the demands must be accepted. Covid's in prison. All sick prisoners must be evacuated before it's too late, before new deaths happen.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0630par0475	The last speaker, Mr. Erdem...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0631par0476	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the Minister of the Family. Occupational qualifications employees are traditionally subject to the Employment Law and have the right to a collective contract, but they have been taken away because of some legal regulations. It is also reflected in the Court reports on whether occupational qualifications are employees or civil servants. Employees of the Occupational Qualification Agency are concerned about resolving the status issue. Mr. Secretary, is there going to be a study to address the status issue of occupational qualifications? Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0632par0480	Let's go to the answer process now.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0633par0481	I've been waiting all morning, so if I ask a question, then you promise the ministers...
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0632par0482	Minister of Energy and Resources, Mr. Fatih does not return... Here you go, Mr.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0634par0484	Mr. President, dear members, thank you for your questions. Our Düzce MP has a question about whether or not to discriminate against electricity infrastructure and gas investments in Düzce. Let me put it this way: Düzce is one of our rare provinces in Turkey that uses natural gas in all districts. Yes, Düzce is a difficult province because of the topography that has been fighting air pollution for years, but it's in all our counties as of today, praise be to God. When I got there, the villages actually started asking for it, but our priority is to promote natural gas, especially in cities and cities and cities -- our municipalities in the cities. A single wholesale sale across Turkey is at the price of natural gas. The difference between the regions depends on the tender the natural gas distribution company in that region has won. In other words, today, for example, BOTASH, a natural gas sale rate of 1,000 cubic metres is $1.250, or $1.25 a cubic meter. The distribution price comes on it, and we get the final price, after adding taxes, but in a national sense, BOTASH is the same price all over Turkey. There is a difference between cities only due to investment and business costs in the distribution area. From that point of view, there's no way to apply a different gas timetable. Now, especially in the last five years, we've been focusing on electricity distribution investments in city centers, and we've greatly reduced complaints, praise be to God. I'm talking about a five-year period of investment in the countryside, especially during this new investment period -- we're going to put more weight on it. The basic problem in the countryside is that, of course, twenty or thirty years ago, there was a difference between the consumption value of a rural household and today's consumption value. While projecting that day, a few lamps, maybe as much electricity as a cooler needs, but now, praise be to God, most of the household appliances in our cities now exist in our villages, and they also work for irrigation, and he makes an additional demand, and there are milk-milk machines, and there are emitters. With these, electricity increased in rural household consumption. Therefore, the power of the transformer centers must be increased. In the coming years, we're going to weigh in on the regeneration and strengthening of this type of network in the agricultural field. We have not only in Düzce, but in the provinces where there are some complaints, especially in the Black Sea. And hopefully we'll be able to solve this problem once and for all. Our Malatya MP has made a proposal specifically to redesign the distribution of shares from the mine. According to the current Mining Law, 50 per cent of the state's rights share is divided into finances, treasures, 25 per cent to the province's private administration, and 25 per cent to the municipality of the municipality. There are demands from major city municipalities, where there are no private administrations. That's what came up in our commission last time. In the early months of next year, we review a new study of the Mining Law. We'll revisit that offer on the commission, at the relevant locations. Our approach is that we believe it would be more accurate to transfer mineral rights to local authorities. There's a particular issue of roads, as you mentioned, in terms of fixing roads. And I'll tell you this: we collect about $1 billion a year across Turkey, and we actually leave half of that to local governments, and that's a huge support for local governments to take care of their needs. We'll reconsider your proposal there. Some of our lawmakers, Antalya, Kastamonoh, have said about natural gas... again, our Adıyaman MP, there is no electricity about a settlement. Let me put it this way: If you will allow me to answer questions about Kastamon and Manavgat, let us answer them in writing. Manavgat and Alania are on the program, and we intend to finish it by 2023. As for the lakehead, there are some conditions that must be met in order to bring electricity to some of the grounds and to some of the places that are less than 5 ▪. Either they're there to pay for that investment, or we need at least five households to come to us with that demand, one. Secondly, there's a law on the latest development that requires, you know, a building registration. In some places, I'm speaking generally because I don't know this information -- in fact, where it's the merch, our citizens have some houses on the plateau. They're in places where they haven't lost their mera quality, so they can't get a building registration certificate, so we're having trouble electrocuting them, and if that problem gets out of hand -- including these -- we can electrocute them.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0635par0491	Your five minutes are up, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0634par0492	If you'll excuse the others, we'd like to give you a written answer as we leave it to our Minister of the Family.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0635par0493	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0636par0494	He hasn't come to the JES, Mr. Secretary, yet he can't explain the JES. You've finished the Enlightenment, you haven't told them yet, Mr. Secretary. Let's hear about the JES. You poisoned the earth, the air. We've got 28 electrified JES. People get poisoned, you don't pay for it here.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0637par0495	You know the JES are useful.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0636par0496	You're not going to be on the side of the company, you're going to be on the side of the people.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0637par0497	Don't talk without knowing.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0638par0498	Mr Selçuk, come in. We're looking at all the inspections coming in on Covid-19, or at the point of hygiene, or at Covid-19, or at the site of the union mobbing, and all our inspectors are being assigned. Our reviews of all the other firms you mentioned and businesses continue there. After March 31st, the TYPs ended in Kastamonu municipalities. The goal of the Program for Community Good is to give our unemployed the habit of working and discipline, thus adapting to the labour market. It's a community benefit program, participants... We haven't given TYP in a long time. The only exception was the Ministry of National Education and Covid, and the Ministry of Health, and the only other thing we've given TYP is that we don't have that kind of situation with municipalities other than that, so we don't have that kind of situation with Kastamon. As I've just told you, the Fund is growing by 25-percent, by 25 percent, by employers, by the state and by the workers, but amongst the goals of the Fund here, there are programs not only for our unemployed, but also for increasing employment for the employer. So, I've just told you, 66 percent go directly to employees, 26 per cent go to incentives to protect employment, and 8 per cent to employment-related programs. I didn't say family insurance. I didn't say family insurance, the whole social family... so it's not a matter of whether the envelope is family or not. ILO 102 No. The Lu Social Security Convention says that there are eight basic social risks and that the state should provide social protection against eight social risks, and that it should establish a social security system. And these are occupational hazards, occupational illness, motherhood, disability, old age, death... So, does Turkey's social security system protect all these eight basic social risks? He's protecting it. So, you can call it "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or something. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Other than that, as other institutions, the Court has identified this in the Court of Public Aid and Solidarity. We've spent 7.3 billion benefits on the Fund, and it's clear where each of them is being distributed. Another issue of our two ministries was that our poor ones could not reach energy. There's no such thing. We, along with our Ministry, also provide electricity support for our needs. In 2019, we provided 1.3 million citizens with 690 million dollars worth of electricity, worth $1.1 billion in 2020. So we're also handing out resources to our poor, our needy citizens for power support. So, our lights keep on going. Women became poorer during the Pandemic period. We reserve more protection for women, which is always the same; it was the same before the pandemic, and so during the pandemic. About 60 percent of all the welfare benefits we do are women, so we have to support women. And whether the budget was manly or not. At the moment, the general directorate, which has provided the highest budget increase among the departments of our own ministry, has been the National Directorate of Women's Status, which is the highest budget increase among the 28 units. In terms of occupational illness -- it just went silent -- let me explain. Now, it's time for the occupational illness... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me explain this, Mr. President. Please... WHAT does occupational illness mean? What a worker does is suffer bodily or spiritual damage due to all the conditions of work or work. If the employee is at 4/A status, it is within the scope of occupational illness, and if he is a civil servant, it is part of his disability. So far, we have five applications, two of five of whom are officers, and we've tied up their pensions as part of two of them. So we're talking about a problem that doesn't exist. He goes to the SEC board, the health board, and if these conditions and conditions are established, according to 4/A or 4/C, our health worker is a liability or occupational disease as long as there's a correlation and the necessary documents and conditions are provided. Thus, we already have a code that is valid and in effect, which has been in place for years. When we looked at the Court's findings since 2017, we had 93 Court findings in 2017, 63 Courts in 2018, 42 Courts in 2019... Thus, our findings of the Court are diminishing every year. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, in turn, I'm going to have the budgets of public administrations in the third round transferred to their exact accounts and budgets read separately to your votes. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources will be transferred to the budget of 2021: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. ENERGY AND TABI EVIDENCE 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 3.999.188,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources budget of 2021 has been approved. I submit to your votes that the State Department of Energy and Natural Resources' final account of 2019 will be transferred to its chapters: those who accept... those who do not accept. Sustained. 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry 2019 Central Management Final Account Total Payment 2,914,663,000,00 Budget Expenses 2.732.150.398,71 Canceled Fund 182.512.601.29 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of 2019 were adopted by the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. I submit to your votes that the Energy Market Editing Corporation be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 323.052,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 323.052,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0639par0544	Mr. President, is this in dollars or dollars?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0638par0545	The Central Management budget of 2021 of the Energy Market Editorial Association has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the Energy Market Editorship of 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account Total Payment 411,714,838,78 Budget Expenses 375.731.264.27 Cancelled Grant 35,983,574,51 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 307,522,000.00 Collection 386,760,173,30 Denied and returned 11.028.909.03 Net Collection 375,731,264,27 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of 2019 were adopted by the Energy Market Organization. I submit to your votes that the nuclear regulator will be transferred to the central management budget of 2021, those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 184.570.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained.
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0640par0569	Mr. President, is this Qatar dinar or Turkish lira?
tbmm-2020-12-10sit07spe0638par0570	Turkish lira, sir, Turkish lira. TOPLAM 184.570.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of 2021 of the Nuclear Organization has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the Nuclear Organization of 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Nuclear Organising Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 95.902,000.00 Budget Expenses 22,708,084,47 Canceled Fund 73.193.915.53 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimate 95.132,000.00 Collection 154.205.469.95 Ret and Returns 733.168.90 Net Collection 153,472.301,05 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. In 2019, parts of the central management account of the Nuclear Organization were adopted. I submit to your votes that the Department of Mining Study and Search will be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. MADEN DETECTIVE AND EARCH GOVERNMENT 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 783,715,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 778,715,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2021 of the Mining Study and Search Directorate has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the Department of Mine Review and Search will be transferred into the chapters of the Central Administration in 2019: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance is 1,107,478,499,88 Budget Expenses 1,079,251,951,81 Canceled Fund 28.226.548.07 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 212,827,93 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimate 620.469.000.00 Collection 1,209,541,631,71 Ret and Returns 5.277.418.63 Net Collection 1,204.264.213.08 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Mining Study and Search Office were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency will be transferred to the central management budget for 2021: Those who don't... Sustained. ENGLISH ENERGY, NUCLEER AND MANEN DEVELOPMENT 1) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 282.814,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 282.814,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mining Research Agency was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the Department of Mines and Oil shall be transferred to the central management budget for 2021: Those who don't... Sustained. MEDEN AND PETROL WORKS GENIORITY 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 404.017,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 384.017,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2021 was adopted by the General Directorate of Mines and Oil. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the Department of Mines and Petroleum Affairs will be transferred into the chapters of the Central Management Account of 2019, those who do not accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 2) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account Total Payment 196,592,861,12 Budget Expenses 125,651,140,83 Canceled Fund 70.941.720.29 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 257,403000,00 Collection 229,276,182,83 Ret and Returns 196,685,73 Net Collection 229,079,497,10 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Department of Mines and Oil were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the National Bor Research Institute's central management account of 2019 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 1) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 23.361,300,00 Budget Expenses 22.942.023.33 Canceled Fund 419,276,67 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimate 12.489.000.00 Collection 23.842.581.25 Rejections and Refundations 37,791.22 Net Collection 23.804.790.03 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the National Bor Research Institute's central management account of 2019 were adopted. I submit to your votes that the rare Earth Elements Research Institute will take part in the central management account in 2019: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. NORMAL TOPRACICAL ELECTIVES INSTITUTION 1) The Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2019 Central Management Predictable Account Total allowance 4.569.000.00 Budget Expenses 910,548,23 Cancelled Fund 3,658,451,77 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 4,529.000.00 Collection 1,269,581,26 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the rare Earth Elements Research Institute were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency in 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account Total Payment 203,049,481,92 Budget Expenses 178,974,531,34 Canceled allowance 24.074.950.58 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 2.668.031.75 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 179.077,000.00 Collection 189,611,124,41 Rejections 456,319,75 Net Collection 189,154,804,66 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Turkish Atomic Energy Foundation were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services will be transferred to the central management budget for 2021: Those who don't... Sustained. FAMILY, WORKING AND SOCIAL INFORMATION 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 155,011,061.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The budget for central management of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services' final account of central management in 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of the final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 106,750,366,578,96 Budget Expenses 106,421,282,769,14 Compensation Expenses 273,331,03 Cancelled Fund 320,641,006,97 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 138,251,779,48 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the institution of vocational competence will be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 1) Occupational Qualification Institution 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 33.238,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 77.915,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of 2021 was adopted by the Employment Agency. I submit to your votes that the Central Government account of 2019 of the institution of vocational competency will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 2) Occupational Qualification Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 40,765,000.00 Budget Expenses 36,623,382.44 Canceled Fund 4.141,617,56 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 38,634,000.00 Collection 74,852.374,16 Ret and Returns 214,782,48 Net Collection 74,637,591,68 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Central Government's final account of 2019 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the state staff president's central management account of 2019 will be transferred to the final sectors of the year: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 Total allowance 36,020,000.00 Budget Expenses 30.320.744.95 Canceled Fund 5,699,255,05 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. In 2019, the central management account of the State Chief of Staff was approved. The budgets and precise accounts of public administrations in the third round were thus approved. I wish him well. Congressmans, the third round of talks is complete. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Friday, December 11, 2020, to discuss budgets and precise accounts of public administrations, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
