tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, before we go on the agenda, I'd like to make a brief discussion of a few issues: the 2021-Year Centre Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2019 Central Management Law Proposal were adopted on October 21st to November 27th in the Plan and Budget Commission. Our General Assembly, hopefully, will complete its budget talks, which began on Monday (December 7th). During this period, we left a total of 143 hours behind during the 11-day budget talks at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, with the busy work of you and our fellow officers in charge. After today's closing talks, we'll be able to close negotiations with the General Assembly on the budget and the final bill proposals. The opinion and proposals from all of our parties, especially in the process of budget negotiations, follow with great interest and interest in our beloved nation. I have full faith that the meeting and work we have had under the roof of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which has been granted by the will of the nation, will continue with great maturity, as it has been so far. Dear lawmakers, as you know, we're doing our Parliament's work this year under the influence of the Covid-19 epidemic, as we do all over the world. At the same time, Turkey is trying to carry out legislation, control and representation activities that have been assigned to us as the Grand National Assembly, while we are trying to work through this process with one hand at a time with minimal difficulty. Despite these difficult conditions, I thank all of our Parliament Speakers, members of the Court, members of our Group, MPs, ministers, bureaucrats, and members of Parliament, who have participated in the work in the process of budget negotiations so far, both in the Commission and in the General Assembly phases, contributing to negotiations. I call upon the 2021 budget, which will be completed today, to bring blessings for our nation and for our state, from the Lord Hakk. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] We're going on the agenda. According to our agenda, the 2021-Year Centre Management Budget Law Offer and the 2019 Central Management Computation Act will be the final talks on all of its bids. Commission? He's in position. Members of parliament, under the decision, at the end of the budget talks, the political party groups will be promised 60 minutes to conduct their views at the request, according to Article 62 of the Interior Charter. These times can be used by more than one speaker. In accordance with Article 86 of the Civil Code, personal talks in favor and against will be ten minutes. Now, I read the names of political party groups, executive and individuals, respectively: On behalf of the National Movement Party Group: MP Mustafa Kalaycı and İstanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group: Group Deputy Chair Şiirt MP Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş and Group Deputy Chair İstanbul MP Hakkı Saruhan Oluç. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group: Konya MP Mr. Abdulatif Sener and İzmir MP Selin Sayek Böke. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group: Mr. Efkan Ala and Deputy Leader of the Group Tokat MP Mr. Özlem Rich. On behalf of the PARTI Group: Ankara MP Durmus Yilmaz and Group Deputy Chair İzmir MP Dursun Dervisoglu. In his name, in favor of Yalova MP Ahmet Bügümük. In the name of executive: Vice President Fuat Oktay. On behalf of the person, against: Republican People's Party Deputy Chairman Manisa MP Mr. Free Special. The first statement on behalf of the National Movement Party Group belongs to Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı. Here you go, Mr. Kalay. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0002par0033	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Actions on behalf of the valuable MPs, the Central Management Budget Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Act of 2019. On this occasion, I salute your high council and our beloved nation watching us on their screens. The budget for 2021 is the third budget of the presidency's government system. Turkey is ruled by the presidential government system starting on July 9, 2018. The presidential government system is a model of governance in accordance with the historical mission and state tradition of the Turkish nation. The basic attributes of the republic, which is guaranteed by our constitution, are our red lines, such as our national and unitary state structure, Turkish national identity, Ataturk, democratic regime and basic human rights. At the heart of the presidential government system is our nation, our nation's sovereignty. The executive authority is given by choice and can only be changed by election, which our nation decides directly. Thus, only our beloved nation determines the power to rule Turkey, and no power outside our nation can change power. The Turkish nation has experienced several times in the parliamentary government's system of designing a number of internal and external custody centers, how governments were established and how they were brought down. This country has seen governments who serve for a month or even twenty-five days. The average life span of 51 governments serving in 72 years of multi-party parliamentary systems in our country is about a year and five months. That time is even shorter, given the terms of the coalition governments alone. Is it possible, with such short-term governments, to achieve great breakthroughs, to achieve the goal of transcending the level of adversarial civilization? Government crises, coalition debates, problems in the presidential elections and bilateral debates at the top of the state have caused obstructions in the management system and caused political instability. These developments have affected Turkey's economic and social impacts, even grounds for non-democratic intervention. The coups led Turkey to the rest of history, corrupting political and social balance from top to bottom, causing many social and economic costs. Turkey also experienced a coup attempt in 2016. On the night of July 15, 2016, he attempted to invade Turkey. Of course, the price of this vile attempt was too great for terrorists and their supporters; our nation has turned our country into a demon who has been feeding traitors who have invaded our country. About a hundred years later, our Coven, who was a veteran of the Salvation War, became a veteran for the 2nd time. With the attempted July 15th invasion, our country has been attacked by terrorist organizations, experienced riot attempts and attempts, bombs have been detonated in our cities, heavy pressure and pressure against Turkey. At such a time, the parliamentary system's inconsistencies have been adopted by our nation, including a new arrangement on the government system, a groundbreaking new moral change, and the adoption of the Constitutional amendment. The presidential government system has purged the weights of the parliamentary system, covering its negativity. Turkey has been purged of its custody focal points, released from its footholds, gained self-confidence. In this period, Turkey strongly countered all attacks against the country, corrupting the games against our country. This has been provided with the presidential government system in the present-day conditions for the rapid and effective decision-making mechanism in each area. Those who failed to achieve a coup attempt and terrorism in 2018 launched a series of assaults on currency and interest to bring down our economy. These attacks have already caused many chain effects, from interest to inflation in our economy, which is heavily costed by the coup attempt and the fight against terrorism, to increased unemployment without economic tightening. When comparisons are being made with past periods of our country's macroeconomic indicators, the fight against these attacks against us must be taken into account the cost of the economy; it requires a national view, scientific approach, analytical assessment, and objectiveness. Unfortunately, when it comes to external forces, where will those who have turned their noses put the words of the U.S. official who recently said that they had threatened to destroy Turkey's economy? What has happened recently should never be underestimated, not forgotten that our country has been brought back from the brink of occupation. It is true that our national income has been reduced in this process due to the increase in courtship, but our country has been saved, our honor has not been violated. The cost of the country's geography we live on has been very high. The saintly people, let the revenues go down, they gladly give their lives for their country, and give them as they give and give them. For centuries, the Turkish nation has managed to defend its independence by warding off countless hardships and plagues. The Republic of Turkey is fully independent, undivisable with its country and nation, and will remain that way forever. The Turkish economy, which has been narrowed down three quarters from the last quarter of 2018 under the influence of attacks on our country, has been strongly recovered since the second half of 2019, and has grown faster than expectations by 0.9 per cent. In 2019, all those in our economy, especially international institutions, who expected a high recession, all those who drew a negative picture, were inverted. In the first quarter of 2020, Turkey was the most powerful growing country among the European Union, G20 and OECD countries, with 4.4 per cent growth. At a time when our economy took a high growth path, our country was also exposed to the impact of the outbreak of Covid-19 that rocked all the world's economies. The outbreak of Covid-19 has hit the global economy. The effects of the epidemic differed from countries and sectors. The OECD released its report on December 1, 2020, marking the world economy's reduction forecast of 2020 by 4.2 per cent. The IMF reported in October that the global economy would shrink by 4.4 per cent in 2020, while growing and rising economies would shrink by 3.3 per cent. Turkey quickly implemented a series of measures to reduce the impact of the outbreak on the economy. Compulsive policy steps have been taken to ensure that production and supply chain are not interrupted, employment is maintained, and the healthy functioning of the financial system continue. Thus, the devastating effect of the epidemic is less in Turkey than in many countries. Turkey's economy narrowed down 9.9 per cent in the second quarter of 2020, while the third quarter showed a V-type recovery rate of 6.7 per cent, while the first nine months grew by 0.5 per cent. The vanguard indicators also indicate growth in the fourth quarter of 2020. In fact, industrial production increased by 10.2 per cent year-on-year in October; 1.1 per cent per month; production capacity use increased by 75.4 per cent in October; 75.8 per cent in November. Again, a key indicator of growth, PMI data, is 53.9 in October; it has taken 51.4 values in November and has shown that although it slows down partially, there is an increase in production and employment, growth continues. While the country's economic growth bid for 2020 is estimated to be 0.3 per cent, it is understood that a strong economic recovery is likely to be exceeded. Contrary to claims, the opening and closing companies and tradesmen look positive. According to TOBB, the number of companies opened increased by 22.8 per cent in ten months of 2020, compared to the same period last year, while the number of closed companies increased by 12.7 per cent. According to TESK data, the number of registration ads increased by 55.2% in the 11th month of 2020, while the number of notices dropped by 30.3%. In 2020, there was a trend in the world of increased budget deficits and debt supply. While our country also has an increase in budget deficits and debt reserves, the rate of national income is well below the average of developing countries. In terms of sustainability of financial stability, the debt of households and real-estate debt remains low compared to similar countries and EU averages in our country. The Covid-19 epidemic has affected some sectors and employees in these sectors more negatively. In 2019, Turkey, which set historical records for the number of tourists and tourism revenues, ranked sixth among the most tourist-friendly countries in the world. In the first nine months of 2020, however, our tourism revenues were reduced by 69.4 per cent with the impact of the epidemic. According to labour market statistics in September 2020, employment was reduced by 733,000 people a year. Under the influence of the epidemic, the tightening of employment to up to 2,55,000 people in April dropped to 72 per cent in five months, thanks to measures taken so far to protect and increase employment. Employment is expected to rise again. Industrial production and PMI data also indicate increased employment in October and November. As far as the sectors are concerned, the reduction in employment is seen in the service sector, especially in the lower sector of housing and food services, and in the agriculture sector. This makes it necessary to take new measures against the remembered sectors. In addition to many measures taken to eliminate the negative effects of the outbreak, new measures were announced by our President the day before yesterday. According to this: A taxi, full and service operator, marketer, tailor, auto mechanic, restaurant maker, baker, woman and man hairdresser, pension, dorm, daycare, wedding hall manager, and employees who follow simple procedure will receive $1,000 a month's income support and rent in large cities, and $500 rent allowance in other provinces. The job rental service will extend until June 1st 2021 on VAT reductions, which include VAT reductions, which include VAT reductions at the VAT rate and discounts on real estate rent and non-resort drinking, maintenance from passenger transport to maintenance. In the tourism sector, the rent to the treasure is postponed by a year's notice, and the payment to the revenues. In addition, health care workers who have died during the epidemic will be determined by their disability or occupational status, providing their families with salaries, additional payments, interest-free mortgages, education aid, employment rights and invoice reductions. As the National Movement Party, we find these measures positive and support them. However, it would be helpful to delay the tradesman's tax premium, credit debts for a fixed period of time, and to update the registration pardon. In addition, to protect our tradesman and artist, the AVM and the large market chain open a branch in the city centre should be bound by the rules in a way that does not violate the requirements of fair competition. The outbreak of Covid-19 has once again demonstrated how critical agriculture and animalism are for economies, the strategic importance of food safety and agriculture. Our farmers' loans to the Agriculture Loan and Agriculture Bank should also be given the opportunity to restructure the conditions envisioned for the restructuring of public debt. The price of agricultural inputs, such as fertilizer, diesel, bait, electricity, has been increased. Our farmers need to be able to get their input at a reasonable price. The scope of the 75% grant seed support provided to manufacturers must be expanded. In terms of livestock, it is important to reduce the cost of bait and to compensate for the crude bait deficit. The production and animal support of quality food and plants must be increased. Electric bills have been an important cost factor. Electrical billing support for families has been an important step for our narrow-income citizens. Steps must also be taken to ease the burden of electricity for the farmer, the industrialist, and the tradesman. The work continues to determine the minimum wage for 2021. As the National Movement Party, we would like the net minimum wage to be raised above the age of starvation. We also argue that the minimum wage should be provided with transportation support in major cities and no taxes on minimum wage. The pensioners were given a two-month annual holiday bonus starting in 2018, and in March this year their lowest pension will be raised from £1,500 to £1,500. In addition, pensioners should be given a full share of non-growth under budget opportunities; some participation in health care should not be taken from pensioners. Our veterans and their families of martyrs have been taken care of and have so far been given a great deal of rights and resources. However, some rightful demands must be met. Although injured during the fight against terrorism, those who are not bound by the month must also be named as veterans and provided with employment and other rights. In addition, the distinction of the pension of honor should upset Koreans and Cypriot veterans and pay the same amount of honor without looking at the income and work situation of our veterans. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has come forward with an extraordinary resurrection and determination to rise in the harsh and difficult conditions of the world and its region. In all areas, regional and global scales, we have our backs, our security, our sovereignty rights, and our historical heritage, in accordance with international law, legal and national policies. Turkey also contributes to the establishment of its multi-directional and humanitarian foreign policy and a global sense of justice. Wherever there's an oppressed victim, wherever there's a right-defying, peace-seeking victim, Turkey is there with all its might. The fight against terror is being carried on decisively, effectively and successfully, and our heroic security forces are writing epics. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) The Claw, Firat, Trap and Lightning Operations not only broke the back of terrorism, but showed the power of the Turkish state. The end of terror is now near. The bloody organization's mountain crew is melting day by day, and its ringleaders are being wiped out one by one. The environment of inner peace and peace is strongly established. An attempt by the imperialist forces to form a terrorist corridor north of Syria has been eliminated by the Fırat Shield, the olive branch, the Peace Fountain and Operations of the Spring Shield. In our blue country, the rights of sovereignty are being maintained, and measures are being taken to protect our legitimate rights and interests. The agreement signed with Libya has shown that the games of those trying to eliminate Turkey in the Eastern Mediterranean have been broken, determined to protect the rights of our country and the sovereignty of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Drills and seismic research are being conducted in our blue homeland and in areas authorized by the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Cyprus is Turkey's national case. The presidential election in the Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus has entered a new era. The Cyprus case is in good hands. Turkey has a covenant of rights and obligations stemming from the founding agreements on Cyprus. The negative impact of Turkey's active and operational guarantee will not be accepted under any circumstances. On the basis of political equality and two-digitity, negotiations have been held for years for the establishment of two constituent states, a new law of partnership. Turkish Cypriots have always sought a fair and lasting solution, while the Greek Cypriots have developed a constant crisis and deepened unresolved resolution. The European Union and its intermediary states must be objective in Cyprus, in the Eastern Mediterranean, in our country and in the rights and laws of our Cypriot brothers. The European Union should abandon sanctions and threats and start a positive start in its relations with Turkey. The region's share of natural resources for peace and stability is essential to justice and justice. No one should try to create an actual situation. Turkey has no eyes for anyone, and it will not violate anyone's rights. Our sovereignty rights are untouchable. Our relations with the United States should be based on equality and reciprocity, in order to serve the mutual interests of both sides, with economic, political and security dimensions. Why did the U.S.A., who did not sell the weapons and missile defense systems that we had demanded in the past, take the S-400? It is unlawful, it is disrespectful. (MHP and AK PARTY) No one can interfere with what Turkey will get from whom. A NATO-based ally must first decide whether the United States is a friend or an enemy, to examine whether it is bound by an alliance law. Regardless of the direction of global and regional developments, Turkey will continue its policies with the determination to protect its rights and interests, not for whom or for what, but for its national perspective and its capital Ankara vision. In the face of the authors of global and regional scenarios, the Turkish nation is one, together. Despite many obstacles, our country will defend its will unitedly, with solidarity to the strength of the future. By the will of God, Turkey will be the winner. Dear lawmakers, the presidential government system is our most important force at this time. Turkey has soon taken historical steps in many other areas and achieved achievements. Praise be to God, eighty-six years later, the chains were broken, and Ayasophia met with Muslim hearts. The opening of the Hayasophian mosque of Kebir is the most important event in our recent history. (MHP and AK PARTY) Thank God for the 46-year lockdown of Maraş. The opening of the Maraş (Marash) is in line with international law, it is legitimate, and its savings belong to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Thankfully, 28 years later, Azerbaijan saved his native territory from the occupation of Armenia. Turkey has publicly supported Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan), and the Turkish Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) has been present with our brothers, and has also been present at the diplomacy table. We're glad that the door to Turan road is opened. Turkey and Azerbaijan will be connected on land for the first time through the corridor from Nahçivan to Azerbaijan. Turkey has made the largest gas discovery in its history in the Black Sea. The 405 billion cubic metres of natural gas reserves discovered will bind our economic security to solid ground, power our strategic strength, and reflect on the well-being of our citizens. Turkey, according to the United Nations Development Programme 2019 Human Development Report, for the first time, has risen to the highest category of human development, the highest league; according to the 2020 Report, human development index has increased, and has increased by 10 places in the country rankings in two years. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Our country's effectiveness in fighting the Covid-19 epidemic, strong health infrastructure, free testing and treatment services, reflected in the European Union progress report, cited by the World Health Organization authorities and by newspapers and television channels worldwide. Our country has provided supplies for 156 countries and nine international organisations who are in a difficult situation, including the United States and European countries with strong economies. According to the World Bank's 2019 Doing Business Report, Turkey has risen 27 digits in the last two years to rank 33. In order to achieve Turkey's goal of becoming a leading country, reducing technological external dependency and providing structural transformation in the industry is very important, creating an industry that stimulates local resources, employs qualified labor force, adapts to the digital age and has international competitiveness. Praise be to God, the outputs of the national technology move are being taken, and local and national production is growing in many areas, including manufacturing industry, automotive, machine, energy, software, medicine, and medical supplies, particularly the defence industry. Our first national helicopter engine, the drones, the SIHA, the ships, the armored vehicles, and the weapons have been our pride. The foundation of the factory to produce Turkey's automobile has been laid at Gemlik. The TOGG, presented to our nation's approval, has been Turkey's pride. Our young entrepreneurs in techno parks have achieved worldwide successes. A local mobile gaming company has succeeded in becoming Turkey's first attempt to value over $1.8 billion. Our ICU ventilator is soon produced, exported. Turkey's first integrated solar panel factory, Europe and the Middle East, has been opened as part of the local and national energy breakthrough. The Conium Carpınar GES, where the panels are being installed, will be visible from space and will provide electricity for 2 million people. If I try to count the names of the first things Turkey has done in this period, huge projects around the world, recent airports, city hospitals, emergency hospitals, highways, bridges, tunnels, divided roads, dams, I should only extend my speech time. Our people see and benefit, and this is the truth. Dear lawmakers, the principles of law, democratisation and good governance must be adopted with a human-based approach that is the basis of the presidential government system, and the efforts to achieve common goals with a holistic strategy must be carried out. As the National Movement Party, we support the campaign of investments launched to make Turkey the center of attraction in the field of investment. For investment in legal norms, taxation and bureaucratic transactions, a more predictable, stable and reliable environment must be created in every way. The presidential government system is now in place as a historical management reform that Turkey is seeking and needs. The jointisation of necessary and planned reforms will speed Turkey's pace. Our beloved nation bears witness that Turkey's Union of Cumhur has determined to raise the country and make it a leading country with enthusiasm and excitement, and has promised to bring its night to its day.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0003par0067	Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0002par0068	The Cumhur Alliance will continue its path and its service to Turkey with determination and faith. As I end my speech, I wish the budget of 2021 to be blessed and prosperous for our country and nation. The year 2021 is a year when mankind has completely survived the outbreak of Covid-19 and will bring health, peace, and happiness to all. I celebrate your new year. The National Movement Party says we'll vote on the budget, and I pay my respects to you and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0004par0072	Thank you. The second word on behalf of the National Movement Party Group belongs to Mr. İsmail Faruk Aksu. Here you go, Mr. Aksu. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0005par0077	Mr. President, I've been promised on behalf of the National Party of Actions on behalf of the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Offer and the 2019 Central Management Computation Act Proposal on all of its proposals. I salute the Veterans and our beloved nation. I wish the third budget of the presidential government system would contribute to our nation's unity, prosperity, peace and security. In a process in which we understand the 100th year of its opening, I remember all the heroes, all our glorious sacrifice and all our martyrs, including Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the first president and founder of our republic. Covid-19, I pray for God's mercy and healing to our citizens, who have been lost by natural disasters and forest fires. He's hailing all of our security forces and health workers who are currently on national watch, fighting terrorism, and the police, and I say, "God help us and help us." For the first time, the 2021 budget was drafted according to programme budgets, and the funding in the central management budget was distributed between 68 programmes. The programme has a strong connection between the budget and public services and resource allocations, with a result-oriented approach connecting goals and resources. The budget, which is the right and share of each of our citizens, is also important as much as increasing resources, and how available resources are distributed. To improve public balances, to protect public finance gains, to maintain public debt at low and sustainable levels, to strengthen human capital, to improve the quality of education, to implement supply and demand-directional regulations in health expenditures, and to increase production and efficiency in agriculture are the main goals of the budget. As the National Movement Party evaluated the budget proposal for 2021, our basic principle was to consider the economic, financial and social policies, as well as the heavy responsibility of the fight against terrorism, regional and global developments, the negative impact of the epidemic on our economy, the economic security threat Turkey has been exposed to, and the negativeness that affects Turkey's economy as well as the world economy. Dear lawmakers, the budget proposal has been prepared in line with the goals of the New Economic Programme, covering the period 2021-2023. The budget's income and revenue estimates are being made; the unemployment rate will be 5.8 per cent; the unemployment rate will be 12.9 per cent; the end-of-year change rate of TÜFE will be 8.9%; exports will be 184 billion dollars; imports will be 223.3 billion dollars; the gross domestic product rate of the debt stock will be 33.2%; the current deficit will be 1.9%. The budget costs were planned to be $245 billion, with an increase of 22.9 per cent, according to the budget law the previous year, with 1 trillion $346.1 billion, budget revenues increased by 15.1 per cent, and the budget deficit was estimated to be $245 billion. Total tax revenues were intended to be $922.7 billion and non-tax revenues are intended to be $178.4 billion. In 2020, the public population, expected to be 6.1 per cent compared to national income, was estimated to reduce debt to 4.7 per cent and to 3.6 per cent in 2023. The most remarkable aspect of the budget offer is a high increase in health, education, agriculture, social support and investment funds. The budget has earmarked $238 billion for health care, raising the share of health expenditures to 17.7 per cent. The budget for health sector investments has also increased by 72 per cent to $20.1 billion. With an increase of 20 per cent, about 15.7 per cent of budget costs are earmarked for education. Our farmer has been earmarked 22 billion euros for agricultural support programmes, 12.1 billion for agricultural sector investments, 42.4 billion for agricultural loan subsidies, investments for investments, and for financing and exports for agricultural KSCEs. The budget's grant for social benefits has also increased by 17 per cent. One of the key features of the budget is that investment is a priority. In 2020, capital costs of 56.6 billion euros increased by 83 per cent and were earmarked for $103.7 billion to invest in governments under the central management budget. For real-enforcement support, $50.6 billion is earmarked. According to the economic rating, the majority of the central management budget funds in 2021 receive current transfers with 41.6 per cent and personnel costs by 22.4 per cent. Public personnel costs have been increased by 15.3 per cent over the previous year as part of new recruitment, which will be employed in public with inflation targets. The quality of budgets is undoubtedly closely related to how resource allocation is prioritized. In view of this aspect, it is understood that resources are primarily dedicated to health, education, social protection, investment, incentives and support, especially to solving uncertainty caused by the epidemic, to building a predictable economic order, to building a secure future for investors, producers, employees, pensioners, and our small-income citizens. Dear lawmakers, under the Final Account Act of 2019, it has been considered by the Court to determine whether the final account of 225 public administrations has been reflected towards the final account of the central administration, with audits conducted by the Court on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in 2019. Although the Court has covered some findings as a result of its studies, the funds, budget costs, and budget revenues have not been identified in their reports. In recent years, the Court has stated that many of the errors have not been repeated by relevant public institutions this time. This indicates that the Court's reports have been taken into consideration and that the findings have been carefully observed. I would also like to say that we find it important for the Court to have a serious study, to protect public interests, and to develop management through supervision. Mr. President, members of parliament, the budget of 2021 has been drafted in a conjunctural, where the Covid-19 epidemic has deeply affected all economies and uncertainty about the global economy is increasing. It is of particular importance to consider the specific conditions of the epidemic in terms of setting priorities, consistent representation of goals, and solving future uncertainty. The country's economies, with many crises experience in different qualities, may have been tested for the first time by a process where traditional measures have been known are not enough, and epidemic-induced problems have become much more complicated. In the United States and European countries with strong economies, many state functions, particularly health systems, have been malfunctioned due to the epidemic. Because of their poor performance in the fight against the epidemic, the extent of power and development has become controversial, it has been seen that development and development cannot be limited to economic sizes. The new order of the world after the outbreak is among the most talked about how political, social and economic relations will be formed by international alliances and institutions. With digitalization, cyber security, food security and biosecurity awareness have increased.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0006par0096	Guys, there's a speaker on the stand, please...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0005par0097	In the process of increasing the importance of public solidarity, investments in human health and safety, Turkey has become one of the successful countries in the world under which health infrastructure, social security system, institutional and human capacity, effective government system and management style, the ability to move and govern, the vision of human-centered civilisation and its appropriate policies.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0007par0098	Bravo!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0005par0099	Turkey, with its central approach to human health and dignity, has been a face stream under the management of the epidemic with its state attitude, human support capacity and human diplomacy. In the event of earthquakes, floods, avalanches, avalanches, and forest fires causing our lives and property losses, and the continuation of terrorist attacks, operations intended through the economy, from Syria to Libya, from Aegean to Eastern Mediterranean, from the Middle East to the Kafkas, from the Caucasus to our sovereignty rights, has become significant in terms of Turkey's economy, in terms of confidence and stability, a healthy investment, production, export and employment chain. Like the world economy, which suffered major injuries due to the epidemic, Turkey's economy has been negatively affected by the process. Basically, there's a sectoral production structure that's almost at a standstill all over the world, and it's important that companies' capital needs be met with incentive systems in line with the requirements of the epidemic process. Turkey has implemented major incentives and supports in this regard, rapidly implementing such practices as layoff bans, short labour grants, tax delays, normalisation support, interest reductions and cash support. Co-directional policy steps have also been put into action to ensure that production and supply chain are not interrupted, employment is maintained, and the functioning of the financial system is maintained. In this scope, the tradesman and industry, our farmers, our small-incomes, our employees, our needy and all communities have taken effective and decisive steps towards turning the wheels in the economy simultaneously. On 14 December, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan's announcement of the support package for our tradesman was also an important step towards expectations. Thus, the negative impact of the epidemic has been minimized, and economic activity has begun a rapid recovery since the third quarter of the year. Turkey's economy -- as it will be remembered -- has grown by 0.9 per cent in the entire year of 2019, continuing its trend of uninterrupted annual growth after the global crisis. In the first quarter of 2020, our economy grew by 4.4 per cent, reducing the economic activity of epidemic measures and tightening the external demand by 9.9 per cent during the second quarter of the year, while in the third quarter, the acceleration of the economy increased by 6.7 per cent. In 2020, it is estimated that the global economy will shrink by 4.4 per cent compared to the IMF, while according to the OECD, it will shrink by 4.2 per cent. Despite this recession in the world economy, vanguard indicators show that economic growth in our country will be positive this year, too. In the third quarter of 2020, industrial production, which showed a strong 7.7 per cent year-on-year recovery, increased by 10.2 per cent year-on-year, giving a strong growth sign for the fourth quarter. The capacity use rate of the manufacturing industry rose to 75.8 per cent in November, and exports took place at the highest level in history on a monthly basis, with 17.3 billion dollars in October. Last year, this trend in the current accountability balance, which for the first time since 2001, has been negative since April, but the discovery of natural gas in the Black Sea will help our current prices to improve permanently in 2023, as well as to the use of local natural gas in the long term. In this direction, it is estimated that the current rate of current transactions will be 1.9 per cent per cent in 2021, while in 2022, 0.7 per cent will return to a limited surplus in 2023. The unemployment rate, expected to be 13.8% in 2020, is expected to be gradually improved by incentives and structural reforms to support employment, with 12.9 per cent in 2021 and 10.9 per cent in 2023. According to the latest employment data released by TÜİK, unemployment rate was at 12.7 per cent in September, with a reduction of 1.1 points from the same period last year. The decline in consumer inflation has been cut down by epidemic effects, increasing by 14.3 per cent in November compared to the same period of the previous year. It is intended to reduce inflation to 8 percent in 2021, to 61% in 2022, to 4.9% in 2023, and to 4.9% in 2021. The country's economies tend to increase in budget deficits and debt supplies due to broad financial support in 2020. The developing budget deficit of countries is expected to rise to 10.4 per cent of the national income rate and to 61.4 per cent of the debt stock. In our country, the budget deficit is 4.9 per cent compared to national income; the debt supply is expected to be significantly lower than the developing country's averages by 41.1 per cent. As evaluations of the booming economy are being made of these positive developments, it should also be noted that attacks on our sovereignty rights and operations through the economy and the economic cost of fighting them, it is historical error to be insensitive to the circle of fire around us, to underestimate the front of hostility inside and outside. Pretending that there are no crises all over the world, being blind and deaf to developments that threaten our economic security, perhaps ignoring the terror struggle that no country has been exposed to for so long, should be unfair. Without a doubt, our citizens are looking forward to greater prosperity. It is a common responsibility for all of us to strive to bring our human citizens to the level of modern civilization and beyond. With measures aimed at reducing the impact of the epidemic and promoting production, today's conjunctural difficulties will hopefully be overcome, and the economic recovery of our citizens will be met in parallel. In the year 2021, the Covid-19 vaccine is being implemented, leading to optimism in the global economy, while both positive prospects for the end of the epidemic and reforms work have boosted confidence in Turkey's economy. In addition to the increase in economic activity, the peace of our distance in the fight against terrorism, the decisive and multi-directional foreign policy practices of political and geopolitical risks will enable Turkey to get out of this process by strengthening it. Dear MPs, in the 21st century, the guarantee of peace and stability in the region is the strategic goal of the Millitarian Movement Party to prepare all conditions for the establishment of a powerful state with a word and dignity in international relations. In this direction, the presidential government system is an important decision made by the Turkish nation and a historic step towards Turkey being a leading country and a powerful state. With the new system, Turkey has been a country that has not been implemented by the regional and global projects set up by others, but has been a writer of strategic decisions in accordance with national interests, who has been heard and has broken accounts. With the presidential government system, Turkey has been freed from the shackles of the parliamentary system, our democracy has been strengthened. Permanent political stability has been achieved, fast and efficient execution has been systematic, and Turkey's front has been opened. The system operates in accordance with democratic institutions and regulations under the powerful balance and control mechanism between the quads. No matter what anyone says, the presidential government system has found a response to the public conscience and has been accepted. When the risks of our environment, for our country and our nation, are assessed in the scales of conscience, there is no doubt the importance of the achievements provided by the presidential government system. The presidential government system is Turkey's honorable future, the Turkish nation's hope for the future, and the Republic's Alliance's determination to bring Turkey into a free, democratic and prosperous future. Turkey, which has achieved political stability, has built an efficient management system, is strengthened by military and economic pain, has also become more likely to contribute to the world's peace, peace and prosperity. Turkey's contribution to regional stability is therefore not coincidental, according to its illegal domestic product, when it ranks first in humanitarian aid in the world. Turkey, which has moved on decisively to disrupt global games in its geopolitical basin, has also taken historical steps in 2020. The Ayasofian Mosque has been met with Muslim hearts, and 405 billion cubic metres of natural gas reserves found in the Black Sea have also been an important source of moral support as well as a solid basis for our economic security. Prints of the initial national technology move have begun. In many areas, such as energy, software, medicine, and medical supplies, our capacity for domestic and national production has increased, along with drones, ships, armoured vehicles, and weapons, as well as the production of helicopter engines and our national automobile. Many energy, transport and industrial investments worldwide have come into play. In the eastern Mediterranean, Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus have maintained their rights and interests and continued to search for hydrocarbons despite attempts to threaten and obstruct them. In the fight against effective terrorism, the voice of Kandil was silenced, and the number of terrorists within the country has been reduced to 300. The Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus was closed to Maraş, and the Turkish Cypriot sovereignty was strengthened. Azerbaijan's home, which has been occupied by Armenians for thirty years, was rescued from occupation in forty-four days, and, praise be to God, the voices of the oppressor have risen again. All these developments have shown to the world that Turkey and the Turkish nation are a force that cannot be deterred by threats, blackmail and sanctions, no matter where they come from. Dear lawmakers, as the National Movement Party, we predict an increase in social prosperity with an understanding of equality, morality and justice that puts people at the center of economic policies. We believe that the reformist steps in order for Turkey to develop, to become a stronger and more prosperous country, in accordance with the spirit of the presidential government system, will strengthen Turkey's power, so that we can move quickly and economically and socially on the basis of democracy, human rights and rule of law. For this, we find it important to have an entirely institutionalized investment environment for local and foreign investors in law norms, taxation and bureaucratic transactions. We accept democracy as a guarantee of the rule of law, of human dignity and dignity, and we consider Turkish nationalism and democracy as twin brothers. We consider it a minimum requirement for democracy to be run by all institutions and rules in social and political relations. We aim for the construction of Turkey, which is stronger and stronger as a whole with its country and nation, with the understanding of Turkey. We see that providing peace and trust throughout our country, high-standard public services are accessible in the respect of every citizen, as a requirement of equality and justice. In order for the Turkish nation and all humanity to achieve a world ideal for peace, peace and prosperity, a human life, we wish that the globalization process, which consists of chaos and turmoil, should be introduced into a human environment through lessons from the outbreak of Covid-19. We want a decisive fight to rid our nation of the scourge of terror. We are proud of the spread of Turkish brands and patented products around the world, the technology move our country has put into action with its own resources and capabilities. First, with the motto of my country and nation, we always hold the state and the nation ahead of everything, the national identity and national presence. We continue to be the voice of the national conscience, the voice of warning and warning of evil attempts to distress our state, to destroy our nation. We strive for the peace and prosperity of our holy nation, for the head, for the belly, and for the happy tomorrow. We consider the budget of 2021 as an increase in investment, production and employment, activation of education and health care, increasing few, enriching the poor and caring for the poor. We view our stay as a budget of support for the national and domestic resurrection. And finally, we think that this budget is a realistic budget of detection and goals in line with economic and political developments. We believe that Turkey will continue to eliminate the risks and threats imposed by regional and global developments, evaluate opportunities and opportunities and activate our national resources, and will be a leading country and a global force to achieve its goals of 2023, 2053 and 2071. (MHP and AK PARTY) For this, it would be enough to focus on the construction of Turkey's blessed future by meeting in the common denominator of the Turkish nation. With these thoughts, I wish the budget of 2021 to be good for our country and our nation, as the National Movement Party has in its corporate budgets, the Central Management Budget Law Offer and the Central Management Computation Act Proposal all of which I salute the High Assembly, saying we will vote "accept" with respect.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0008par0125	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the first word belongs to Group Deputy Chair of the Group, Coral Danış Beştaş. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0009par0130	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party on the last day of the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal talks. At the beginning of TVs and social media accounts -- against any kind of blackout -- I send our greetings, our regards to the people who follow us. Turkey's political history is the history of blind gates and iron bars for the oppressed in this country. I salute my friend, Aysel Tuğluk, Nur Hayattin Demirtaş, İdris Baluken, Abdullah Zeydan, Musa Faris, Selçuklı, Bekir Kaya, and a thousand other cases. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Prisonership begins with the handover of will to one man, authority and position. Freedom does not answer four walls and iron doors; freedom is a posture, a mood, and a virtue to the world. In this context, we salute once again all the virtuous and postured prisoners and struggles that have gone on hunger strike for their democratic demands. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Today is the anniversary of the march of Sheikh Bedreddin and Celalettin Rumi, and I remember them with respect and respect. The crisis of capitalism, which emerged in 2008, quickly spread throughout the world. In response to this crisis, international capital has embraced right-wing populist leaders. Turkey had two paths ahead of it; it would either provide democratisation, particularly the solution to the Kurdish problem, or it would take an authoritarian path. The government has seen these developments in the world, suppressing already limited democracy, justice, equality and freedom. Under the conditions of the State of Emergency, Turkey has imposed on its people an authoritarian government system, called the government system. This system condemns Turkey's people to political and economically continuous crises, guardianship institutions, and policy-deprived policy. This system brings to the court subjects multiple salary systems, a side-order tender arrangement, and to the people the demand regime, poverty, unemployment, oppression and misery. Look, the interest rate was 7.5 on the day the democratic solution of the Kurdish problem was denied and the AKP-MHP alliance was established, 17.5 on the day of the transition to the palace regime, 15 points today. So the interest lobby is growing in the swamp where you've become authoritarian. As you palaces build, the interest lobby continues to grow. [[Applause from HDP rows]] In June 2015, there were 3 million unemployed in this country. You disregarded the will of the people, forcing violence on society just to stay in power. The day you entered the palace regime under the terms of the State of Emergency, the number of unemployed reached 4 million, and today there are 10 million unemployed. Every time you open your mouth, you're calling it an external attack on the Kur; let's see who did the wolf attack on this country's money: in June 2015, the dollar was 2,68, the day of the palace regime was 4,71, and today 7.67, the court regime responsible for the wolf attack gave the peoples of Turkey no name. Every time the dark faces of the 90s, the chief guests of the palace's gaudy and extravagant invitations, came on screens, the tail of Turkey, the bread on the rack, the money for unpaid drugs, and the sinking SGKs. Yes, inspired by Karl Marx, you call back the spirits of the 90s as the crisis grows, you embrace their slogan, you wear your nationalist clothes. While they're notorious for imaginary exports, you're written on the black pages of history with imaginary employment, but you don't know that history has happened twice: tragedy, comedy in the second. Dear lawmakers, the presidential government system and authoritarian court regime are giving the people of Turkey economic, social and political multiple crises. The economic crisis has now reached a point that cannot be denied. With each passing day, unemployment, poverty, and debts grow, our people commit suicide by saying "shash",,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. As one of our merchants said, we have no face left to look after the debtors in the morning, and the children in the evening. We have reached the point. Other than a thousand rooms in the palace, there is not a room in Turkey where people are comfortable putting their heads on the pillow; in the kitchen, we experience a collapse of salt, onion, bread on the table, and peace within the house. So, how did we get to this collapse, I want to tell you one. You have brought Turkey's economy to the brink of a massive collapse by rant, privatisations, capital tax benefits and debting the public. We've seen debt and debt structured six times since 2010. Even in these configuration processes alone, we see how the AKP is dragging citizens into debt. In 2014, a debt of 42.5 billion euros was constructed, the public couldn't pay, the debt increased; in 2016 and 2017 a total of $120 billion debt was set up; the public could not pay; in 2018 a 60 billion debt was set up; and there was no more configuration of the groom who became a ghost; this is the last time. But as the poverty deepened, the crisis grew, and the public again could not repay its debt. And yet you didn't erase the debts. Last month, a $500 billion bill of configuration passed through the House. So, we're asking: do you really not look at the amount of debt that has been raised every year for ten years? Don't you see the power of the growing citizen every year to not be able to pay? But we know that when it comes to the debt of the people, there is no greater power than you to cover your eyes and ears. But when it comes time for the confederates, let them pardon and overlook. Look, under the Central Compromise Commission, there's a commission that gets all the instructions from the palace. What does this Commission do? He's willing to settle the debt of non-compulsive companies with debts or penalties. Since 2007, the tax debt for settlement has been 6 billion 526 million, while the figure has been reduced to 1 billion 765 million TL. Again, the sentence for settlement since 2007 has been 7 billion 316 million, while the figure has been reduced to 73 million liras. When it comes to erasing young people's KYK debts, there is no compromise, there is no compromise when it comes to handing over their rights, but you alone know their names, and when it comes to companies whose decisions you make in the halls of the palace, you've created compromise billionaires. We ask you, "Who do you take away their debts for whom or for what reasons?" Who gave you the right? You know, you can't even explain what you're doing because you know it's obvious favor, but we're going to ask the public to pay for it, and we're going to charge you for every penny you've vaporized for the runt and the capital. We're going to do the real configuration, and we're going to do the compromise. We're going to build this whole economic system that's going to eliminate this layman, the enemy, the enemy, the working enemy, the interestist economy. Dear lawmakers, the late Erbakan, for privatisations, for the sold KİTS, you are eating your children, dedicated to the handing over the production of institutions to the side. Yeah, look, since 2002, over $110 billion has been privatized, everything from stock sales to non-moving times has been sold. You sold 55 times more than this country has sold in 80 years by yourself in 18 years. We are the most successful government. When you didn't have much left, you became a real estate agent and started selling land. The AKP-MHP alliance is now a real estate company. The new profession of this company is also treasurer. Do you think you'd be a treasurer if you dug up a mine deal in 766 districts of Turkey? But know that these new professions of yours will not be able to save you. You are now gravediggers of your own political life, and that budget is your condolences. Dear lawmakers, this alliance has turned Turkey into a war machine, and they brag about it every chance they get. You have confessed your authoritarian and militant truths, saying to the citizen, "Do you know the price of a bullet?" See, in the 2021 budget, $148.5 billion was earmarked to the Ministry of National Defence and Coast Guard Command, 129 billion in 2020. Not just these institutions, but the war and security markers that you've been saving for the 2021 budget, you've spent $236 billion. Not much, but five years ago, as the solution process continued, it was only $50 billion, and I'm offering this increase to the public's discretion. At that time, these sources were reflected at the public table, and now they are reflected in the public pain and suffering. You know, there's no source of people's problems. You know, here's the source. As for the public, let's see where the resources of the country that you're withdrawing have gone: in 2015, the import of the defence industry was $2 billion, $800 million, and in 2020, that amount has increased by about 10 times, and that amount is 24 billion, 700 million. The tradesman became 10 times poor, pensioners suffer from living problems; unemployment has increased from 3 million to 10 million; the number of poor has increased from 10 million to 20 million. The people were forced to have patience, oppression, and violence. Dear lawmakers, the security devices of this alliance have become a security issue for themselves, our people and our people. If children are killed in their sleep by Panzers in a country, suicides are committed because of unemployment, and people are setting their bodies on fire in the middle of the street because of hunger and poverty, the security device in this country has become a threat to public safety and property. Therefore, the AKP-MHP alliance is a concrete alliance that cannot live without gunpowder and metal, and the real security issue is this alliance itself. Yes, dear lawmakers, in your 18 years of power, you have created a country where the poor can't defend the rights of the poor, and the unemployed have lost hope. In your 18 years of power, you tried to discipline the people with hunger, with bans on workers, with oppression. With your policies, you've targeted women most of all. In Turkey, where at least 20 million women are kept completely out of working life, women's employment has dropped to 25 per cent in an economic crisis. It wasn't enough, you forced women to work in slavery. For hundreds of years, you have deepened women's inequality and poverty beyond anything seen in history. You've spread your anti-women's policy to a wide range of public engineering, but you know that women's resistance to the AKP-MHP alliance has been spectacularly achieved. On March 8th, women made no sense of your TOMA, your gas bombs, and women resisted the world with exemplary solidarity. In addition, women did not only resist oppression and violence, but they also achieved a lot of gains simultaneously, making them safe. The Istanbul Convention and the co-chair system are just two of the main achievements of women. Look, these historical achievements of women are not only fighting violence and discrimination, they also provide a gender liberal transformation in social and political areas. The Istanbul Convention and the full implementation of Law No. 6284 are therefore vital. Again, women are actively involved in every phase of the policy-making process if the co-chair system is alive in all parties. That's exactly what the HDP co-chair system is for. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) However, the ruling, the co-chair and the Istanbul Conventions are being attacked as well as the others. But once again, women from Turkey are fighting to protect and grow their rights. Let me just give you a number on budget negotiations from this resistance: Yes, 435 minutes on behalf of our party, only our women's deputies spoke. This is a great gain. I don't want to embarrass you by telling you the times of other parties. We have a pioneer situation at large, but I also want to say that we have an opinion here that is not critical of the fact that they're behind, but rather advocates for the rise of women's representation and advocates for the rise in all parties. Yes, now is the time to bring social gender-sensitive budget to this country by the power of women; it is time to end women's unemployment, poverty, discrimination. We're gonna make it through solidarity, organised struggle, and we women are gonna win. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear lawmakers, where this power brings the country, it is a great deal of debt. In 18 years, both the public and the citizens of this country faced historic debt. Public debt has increased ninefold since 2002. You went into a debt-related helix that created half your loan payments in 2019. You are Turkey's unconditional interest lobby, so we're warning you: don't go out again and tell anyone about interest or lobbying. What are you doing to get out of this debt mess? You raise the bill to citizens; you hand out tax cuts to your followers, loans to citizens. Citizens have to be in debt to pay their rent, warm up, and feed their meals. Here, and bring these people under the pillows without being bored. You're calling them. The only thing the public collects under a pillow is more debt. And if you bring back what you have stored in your gardens of tax, then bring it back once, though your stash of money is so great that it will not fit under a pillow. With the money you've reset since December 17th and 25th, there's not a single debtor and a tradesman left. When you came to power, the amount of credit was around $6.5 billion, while the pandemic amount exceeded $618 billion. The shopkeeper can't open anymore, he can't build a shop. And you came out shamelessly and announced a $5 billion package for the tradesman. You gave her 33 lira a day, you gave the palace $1 billion,800 million covered allowance in 11 months. The total debt of the tradesman and the COBI is 1.9 trillion, one and a half times the budget of this country. Your support is 25 percent of the tradesman's debt. You're now politically dead with your covered, reserve, advocacy budget, but we're never gonna let you finish the trade. [[Applause from HDP rows]] And then there's the waste and the luxury, the most starry corner of this power report card. The trustees you've assigned, they're going to be drunk. We haven't forgotten the baths we call baths, tons of dials, beads of ministers, tons of dried-up foods. There's no saving a reputation. There's no such thing as bullshit that the people of this country will listen to and approve because there's no dignity in waste. You looted the public's throats, the laborer's sweats, the severance, the minimum wage, the soup boiling in the pot, the food in the refrigerator, the money in the wallet. Inflation in the citizen's kitchen is one of the reasons why unemployment in the street, hunger in the household, is an undetermined, legitimate, non-approved grant pit. Yes, valued lawmakers, this is the power that is the greatest working enemy Turkey's history has ever seen. He wants the laborer to produce workers, but not to take his money, and not to ask his compensation when he's out front, and when he's working unsecured, where's my right to send a union? Let him work in slavery for hours, but not even for overtime. Now, the worker's had enough. In spite of all your pressures and bans, workers everywhere in Turkey are resisting their rights, raiding Ankara. Bimeks workers, Atlasglobal workers, Soma, Ermenek mine workers, Manisa Termokar workers, who have fought for months of unpaid wages and compensation, are seeking justice and account. We salute them all, and remind them that if there is no justice for the worker, there is no peace for power. Dear lawmakers, during the budget talks of 2021, we discussed people's injuries, their problems. Let's see what anyone says in December 7th to 15th: 344 times we've talked about women's problems, 211 times their labor life problems, 150 times their hunger and poverty, 43 times their bids, waste, corruption; 34 times you've said women, 4 times their education, and only one time their unemployment. We talked about hunger, unemployment, young people's problems, and every time you were on the stand, you said, Mr. President, you said, "Secure." Your compass shows the palace, and ours shows the people. (APPLAUSE) As they say, the tongue is the saddlebag of existence. We have oppressed people in our saddlebags, palaces in your saddlebags; people in our saddlebags, supporters in your saddlebags. Look, let's tell you in other languages, in other ways: The painter Moholi Ponti says about a hundred years ago, there will be illiterates, not illiterates, but people who can't read the image. Because Hatay had been unemployed in front of the governorship for some time, my children were hungry. He burned himself. The other, the second image, the guardian of the crisis, which the AKP's government dragged the country into; people are now collecting food from garbage in this country, and it's not enough, it's even going to trash cans in the neighborhoods of those who prospered during the AKP period to find food in the garbage. This is the picture of Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is an embarrassment and let's make a note of it. You will continue to lose your story unless you read these images and understand them. Since you have condemned these people to the garbage can, God willing, we will send you to the wastebasket of history. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear lawmakers, the AKP-MHP alliance is responsible for a major economic collapse in its path towards turning the pandemic crisis into an opportunity. They are jealous of us. The world countries that you call the Pandemic constraints assured the worker, unemployed, and the shopkeeper billions of dollars, while the government named them on the faces of history without a single guarantee in the second constraints. This alliance, which can't fight the Coronavirus in terms of health, is moving like an economically complete disaster engine. We call on all Parliaments: this alliance has lost its license to govern. Come on, let's take some urgent steps. Be patient in poverty for the people he cannot deliver the mask to. Let us do what this alliance cannot do. Let's put all workers on sabbatical, except for the mandatory sectors, and make the minimum wage $4,000. Let us provide direct income support for the unemployed and those with less than 2,500 euros to complete the hunger limit. Let us provide direct income support for women who live as domestic workers and care for their children every month for $2,500. Let's give the poor their basic needs, such as electricity, water, natural gas, telephone and the Internet, free of charge. Let's delay all loans, loans, and all other loans without interest by providing direct income support for all tradesmen who have been stopped. Dear lawmakers, this power cannot rule the country. Why? Because there's plenty of pull, zero merit, because nepotism has peaked, because when unemployment was 30 percent in the country, a minister -- God willing, he put his whole family to work, his family has zero percent in the family, what does unemployment matter to him? But we do know that you didn't just reset the unemployment of your spouses and friends, but you also reset the existing trust of these people. Not only did you lose your story, but you lost the people's faith. Young people who have been studying for years - selling simite, losing their lives in construction - want to leave this country as soon as possible. You should know that these young people have not only the memory, but also the affinity. Dear MPs, we will go on the road and free the young, women and poor of Turkey from those who set up the chains of happiness. We will create the state of waiters who serve the people, but we will together create the egalitarian economy against those who say, "The country is going to open prison, the people are going to starve, the state is going to become a guard state." The authority of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) and the authority of science, knowledge, truth is in the administration. We will create an economic system based on common wisdom, negotiation and participation, not on the hand of the person, the pleasure of the family, the waste of allies. By implementing the new economy of life, we will restore the blessings of this land. We will, together, create the power of those who end hunger and poverty, not those who suffer from hunger and poverty while people commit suicide. (Applause from HDP rows) It is not a country condemned to garbage cans because of dry hammock; we will all provide a country with democratic life, integrity, partnership, cooperatives. Yes, with the new economy of life, we're going to live on the basic civic income. We'll get justice in taxes. So far, we're going to end the tax system that's been passed on to the rich, taken from the poor, from the employees. Now, in this country, when someone's picking up bread out of garbage, someone's going to get private jets from tax pardons to cash registers, because we're going to live without bills. Yes, we're going to create a country where people don't have to pay bills for their basic needs -- electricity, water, natural gas, the Internet. We're going to build living spaces where money doesn't cross. Yes, for a hundred years our peoples have been living in a systematic exploitation system in Turkey -- except for a few separate regions. To resolve the inequality between the regions, we will implement the model of the region's economy, which is based on the Kurdish cities, the East Black Sea and the Inner Anatolian regions, and the needs of the locals are determined by the local people. The oligarch in Ankara will not determine the fate of the streams of Artvin, the forests of the Aegean, the seas of Marmara, and the region. The people will decide for themselves their land, their water, their economy. We saw in the 2021 budget talks that there are two Turkeys. The first is the imaginary Turkey of power and its environment and borders. The second is Turkey, where 82 million live in despair, misery and unemployment; yesterday, today, peace and happiness have been stolen. Your ruling Turkey is Turkey for December 17th-25th corruption and trustee thefts. People's Turkey is Turkey of June 7th, March 31st, June 23rd, account seekers and resistors. Turkey, where people live, is much bigger than AKP's imaginary Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll be done in a minute.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0010par0163	Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0009par0164	We, by God, will crown the future of Turkey's people with equal, fair, and free lives. We challenge a righteous and free life with our opinion, with our faith, with our will. We trust the people of Turkey, you and ourselves. We know that we will end the centuries of exploitation, the 18 years of slavery. Against discrimination, injustice, hunger, poverty, alliances -- alliances of war, alliances that consume hope -- we challenge politics that cannot see the future. I salute you and the people who follow us with love.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0010par0167	Thank you. The second word for Peoples' Democratic Party Group belongs to Group Deputy Group Deputy İstanbul MP Hakkı Saruhan Oluç. Here you go, Mr. Oluç. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0011par0172	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, our dear peoples, I salute you all. I respectfully salute the sons of Leyla Güven and the children of Moses, whose legislatures have been brought down unlawfully and unfairly. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) I salute all of our chosen ones, our rulers, and our members, who are watching us in prisons with great excitement and longing; you are our honor. [[Applause from HDP rows]] We left a month behind in the budget process. We've spent a month working hard at the risk of pandemics in both the Plan and Budget Commission and the General Assembly. First of all, we thank each of our people, all of our parliamentary workers, all of our staff, the stenographers, the technical team, the waiters, the consultants and the congressmen, each and every one of our friends. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Members of parliament, representatives of opposition parties at the General Assembly and Plan and Budget Commission for a month have taken almost a hundred hours of pledges. For about a hundred hours, he explained that the 2021 budget was the palace's budget, that there was no public budget, that the people's pockets were being pocketed, but you didn't want to understand. Not just us, but all the labor and democracy forces, unions, NGOs, everyone told you, but you didn't want to hear those voices, you turned your back on society; the tradesman closed down; the citizens couldn't pay their rent and loans; you didn't want to understand; young people, women, workers, farmers, farmers, health workers, you didn't want to hear them. What happened in Parliament when we fought for the government to serve every citizen in this country equally and fairly, briefly: The ruling bloc, which offered the budget, ignored the opposition that expressed the public's demands, didn't change a single letter of the budget, continued to polarize society. But if you'd listened to the voice of the opposition, the demands of the street, a budget could have been created, not the palace, but the public's, unfortunately, not so. We said, "Why did you hide the number of cases in public?" The Minister of Health said, "Get out of the country." We asked those who had lost their lives because there were no tests or room in the ICU room, and the Minister of Health boasted of providing protective supplies for 159 countries. We said it's a budget of waste; you said the world follows us with envy. We said that the demands of faith and culture of the Alevi community were ignored; you said that we distribute them. We have asked about the millions of people whom you have appointed in Mardin, Van, Diyarbakir, and all of our cities, and fed to the politicians of power; he has become Minister of Interior. We asked about the North Forests that you destroyed, and the Kazdağs, and the Toros, and the Hasankeyf, and the Judi, and the Salda, and the HES companies that you had not entered in the Aegean, or the Black Sea; and you told your followers about the nation's gardens which you had given them. We asked those who had starved and committed suicide in debt, and you said, "Feed your fill with bread." We asked about the KYK debts of young people approaching 5 million; you said, "We made a pool, the young people are swimming." We said that there are 5,760,000 young people unemployed in this country, and you are infecting young people with the virus of despair. We said that teachers who have not been appointed have been appointed, that they should be given the rights of the YIT, and that there is a source in the budget; and you didn't want to hear them. We've suggested more budgets for education, health care, research, and you've talked about the benefits of weapons production. We asked about thousands of political hostages, and you took refuge behind slanders, hidden witnesses. This list can be extended more, but in short, we're not surprised by the answers given by the power, because the power has neither the answers to these questions nor the power to solve these problems. We know that because you're losing altitude in the collapse of the ruling alliance. Unconcerned powers, based on oppression and hardship and lies, collapse, that's the way it is all over the world, and you're in a panic about living it. I'm afraid we're dealing with a form of governance and understanding that's impossible to accept in democracies. You've built an authoritarian regime, autocracy, where parliament and negotiating democracy have been eliminated and authority is collected in the hands of one person. You've kidnapped politics, social problems, budgets from the House to the Palace. You have created the Constitution, a judgment under the rule of conduct, which is dependent and biased, by ignoring the law, and by practice of punishment. You've paralyzed the balance control mechanisms. You've united the separation of forces in one person, destroyed the remnants of democracy. By ignoring the legitimate elections, you have publicly violated election and polling laws and struck the will of the Kurdish people with trustees. With the trustees you've appointed, you've eliminated local governments and local democracy and won the will of millions. You've destroyed participating democracy, restricting the freedom of social and political opposition, especially in the media. It seems that the ruling alliance, the book How Democracy Dies, has made it its own opposable book. (Applause from HDP rows) The democracys can die not only in the hands of generals, but also in the hands of elected leaders. It is called. Here, you've killed democracy step by step with your illegal practices. Whether it's the presidency or the semi-presidential or parliamentary system, it's all negotiable, it's most appropriate for our country, but each of them is indispensable, participant and negotiating democracy, the rule of law, but it can be stepped up on the ground of indispensable. The most vivid example of the new custody system in this country has created talks by appointed ministers in Parliament. Those who come and scold the House and show off are the owners of new custody. The ones who ended the old custody became the new focus of custody. That's what you did to the country. And you have the Home Secretary, struggling to be the only parallel man. I'm the only man in that building who's built an autonomous parallel structure in his ministry. This Homeland Security Minister is threatening everyone -- democratic forces, the Supreme Court's president, women, young people, our party, opposition journalists, everyone. Look, today, workers, workers, workers, farmers, pensioners, tradesmen, women, young people, Kurds, Armenians, Seryanians, Alevis, Roma, Circissors, Greeks, Georgians, and all the peoples who live in this land who I can't count, are under pressure and violations of the current authoritarian system. Your I.A. is messing with the inside, your State Department is messing with the outside. Your domestic and foreign policy is not based on peace and negotiation; it is based on crisis, provocation, and interlude. The heavy investment of this government in recent years has been facing the arms industry. The health and education system is the primary goal of power, not research development, but weapons system. Why? There's no external threat. On the contrary, you've made the country fight with all our neighbors. The reason why so many security policies are gaining weight is because they're inside. Because we're dealing with a power that sees its own people as a matter of internal security. You'd appoint trustees to neighboring countries if you could, but the world isn't what you think. You've made the country a country that talks about sanctions, not investments. Dreams and reality are different. Repressive regimes producing crisis and conflict are facing collapse everywhere, remember that. Congressmans, here you are, laying a false table in front of the public in the budget of these ruling and supporters we've been talking about for a month. You remove democracy from this public table, the right to equal and free citizenship, social justice and equality; you leave the table, hunger, poverty, oppression, injustice, plundering and lying, and say, "Enjoy yourself." The only thing left to our party at this table is the policy of oppression and destruction. During the 27th term alone, you have prepared 914 proceedings against our MPs so far, 914. You've detained thousands of our members and executives, our constituents, you've arrested hundreds of them. You put bug bugs in our party buildings when you tried to silence us on the parliamentary platforms, in the streets, in the press, in the media. You're trying to purge democratic politics through your own jurisdiction. This is the truth of power: oppression and persecution of those who are not themselves. So, what's with the whole painting? Look, Turkey has been in a multi-crisis for a long time, and the public's agenda is directly linked to the economic, social and political crisis. The origins of these crises are as old as republican history. Turkey's most fundamental crisis is that the republic has not been democratised. Monotheism, discrimination, exclusionist, assimilationist, denial and sexist policies have not been transformed in the coming period of time. The understanding, which only set up the definition of citizenship by centralizing the Sunni, Turkish and male identity, is rising on the denial of the group, the group, and the identity of many people who have existed and lived together throughout history in this ancient land. This segregating, exclusive, and non-controversial character of the nation's imagination has caused and has caused great destruction in this country. Because of this understanding, democracy in Turkey has never been completely in control of institutions or politics. Democracy has been defunctioned many times by military and political coups. Turkey's democracy, which is trying to grow in the shadow of oppression, forced and authoritarianism, has finally been hit by the presidential government system, which excludes democracy. The government, describing the July 15 coup attempt as Allah's grace, transformed its powers by the declaration of the State of Emergency on July 20, 2016 into an opportunity to intimidate the community and suppress the opposition. During this time, both legal and actual execution has been strengthened in a non-controversial and insurmountable way. Instead of consent, pressure and difficulty have been made into a norm. Power has become more authoritarian every day, and its basic rights and freedoms are severely suspended. Thus, the democratic process, which has been quite fragile since the construction of the republic, has been gradually eliminated by the presidential government system. In the process, power has transformed judgment into an institution that stands hand-to-hand in front of one man. Instead of the rule of law, the rule of law has passed over the rule of law, the rule of law has passed over the state. Our dear people, Parliament is putting its 100th year behind it, and the Kurdish issue is leaving its 100th year behind. The Kurdish problem cannot be solved because the republic is not democratised, and democracy problems cannot be solved because the Kurdish problem is not solved, and the republic does not. The state and the government are constantly trying to eliminate the Kurdish problem with security policies. The Kurdish problem is no more. It doesn't exist because it exists. The existence of the Kurdish problem leads the state and the ruling system to lack of law and democracy. This problem, which you have denied, continues to appear in front of you. If any government has ever thought that it is running the country through terrorism and beka rhetoric through the Kurdish problem, with a sense of threat and division, a cover over the country's problems of unemployment, poverty and corruption, eventually that problem has ended those rulings. That truth will not change. In the process, the Kurdish right of representation was taken from him by trustees, whose will was seized. Kurdish is deleted from public space, even Kurdish theatres are banned. Pressure and violence, war policies, human rights violations, labour exploitation, income injustice, regional inequality, ecological destruction and sexism have become a regular form of the new regime. Prisons have become the hostage centers of the dissidents. In prisons there have been serious rights violations, abuse and torture in recent years. In violation of international agreements that are illegal and signed in the Imralı, isolation has been declared to be a clear change in the text of the European Committee for the Protection of Torture (CPT) and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. This absolute isolation system must be terminated immediately. This ruling regime in the Imralı is deepening injustice and unlawfulness in Turkey. When you say "lawlessness," ten days to the 9th year of the Roboski massacre, which was once again described by Mr. Levent Gök from this bench yesterday, and no public official has ever been sentenced or tried. Of course, it can't be forgotten, and we'll continue to talk about it, and we'll continue to be there for Roboski's people in this quest for justice. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Members of parliament, the regime's economic policy is also deepening the economic and social justice gap between classes and regions. After all, runt policies that are based on capital and eliminating the population not only take away citizens' budgetary rights, but also destroy their lives and living spaces. On the one hand, there is a multi-crisis process, and the public's needs are not covered in budget preferences, and on the other hand, the bill for the accession of positions within the ruling bloc is heavily publicized. The attempt to redesign politics, to shut down the power towards our party, and the progress of these attacks until the call for genocide does not show the Kurdish enemy character of the ruling bloc, which clearly reveals the distance of the power block from democracy to democracy. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) The collapse of the ruling bloc takes place before the public, and the people pay their bills most heavily again. I'm afraid this power has run out of ability to take a step in the interest of reforming and democratisation. There can no longer be a fair trial through a simple legal arrangement, nor can the crisis in the economic field be resolved by the resignations of the Minister, nor can the parliamentary system, which has been transformed into the palace's approval office, be carried out in a democratic manner. Congressmans, the path out of this painting is possible with a democratic republic. For this, it is the need for a social constitution based on social needs, which guarantees the existence of all identity, language, culture and beliefs, social, ecological, pluralist, egalitarian, female libertarian, democratic. Every individual, community and structure in this land must be able to see and feel themselves in that constitution. One of humanity's greatest achievements is that the right to choose and to be elected in the century we live in is to be subjected to unfettered subjugation, to the construction of the appointed power under this roof of Parliament. It is the duty of all forces to build such a country, a democratic republic, not just for us, but for democracy. One of the main elements of building the democratic republic is democratic local government. What's wrong with people having a say about their own town, their own neighborhood, their street, what kind of cultural, social environment, how they decide to live collectively, how they can choose their own representatives, even how they can develop their own direct representation? Does this have to be done from Ankara, or why is it banned in some parts of the land when this rule can be bent? Why are Kurdish people being punished? You don't have the answers to those questions. Why not one of the main elements of our democratic republic in democratic municipalities? There's no answer to that question, Congressman. We've all been through enough pain to know that none of this will ever happen without social peace, and together, we continue to live. It is the right of all people in this country to live in peace and peace. In order for this to happen, we have pointed out hundreds of times the responsibilities of this Parliament. Once again, we want to draw attention, we repeat this call. So we say, let's take the initiative together, take the common responsibility for solving common problems. We all know how important justice is to public peace. Justice, the spirit of the universe, is the yeast of us being together, the reality of the state's existence. Of course, it can't happen without him. While politicians, journalists, scientists, writers, lawyers, Democrats are in prison, can we talk about social peace and justice? Can we talk about democracy while the courthouse archives are filled with criminal cases? The facility of justice stands before the entire Parliament as a historical responsibility. Then we must all march together to fulfill our responsibility and correct the scales of justice. We're gonna say this call one more time. Once again, a pluralist, democratic, egalitarian, liberal constitution is the key to unlocking the country. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Next year, the year 2021 is the 100th year of the Constitution of 1921. In the 100th year of the 21st Constitution, we must discuss a new constitution, a new social contract, to bring this country out of all crises. Members of parliament, which have been exposed to all kinds of attacks on the ruling bloc during budget talks, shed light on the principles of the HDP; pluralist versus pluralist, defending a social life based on equal and voluntary unity of differences, a liberal and democratic Turkey goal, which is still our journey. We continue to view all the struggles of oppressed and exploited peoples, workers and workers, women and young people, faith groups, as our own. Aren't there obstacles on this trip? Of course it does. Even if they try a thousand times, we continue to break our branches, give them flowers. (Applause from HDP rows) We continue to color the garden of these peoples. A world that isn't exploited in the day, that doesn't lie hungry in its nights, and our yearning for a country is still standing. We continue to fight for those who are crushed in the middle of this multi-crisis, who sweat each day to bring home the bread, who work in the field, the factory for nothing. On our journey of truth, we struggle to ensure that the future anxiety, unemployment, exploitation of young people who have planted hope in our hearts does not go away. It was tried to be destroyed on its own land; its language, its identity, its faith, its faith, countless persecuted, its villages burned, its villages burned, its prisons were slaughtered, but we continue to step forward for the rights of the Kurdish people, who have not stopped fighting for honor and freedom, and we will never give up. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) We are the very ones that the Alevis fought in the way of right and truth; we are their comrades in their struggle to relieve pressure on their beliefs, who have their demands on equal citizenship and places of worship. The main owners of our struggle are women who rebel against women's murders, exploitation, discrimination, government cruelty, sexism, and we will continue to lead this rebellion. The voice of the vicious children of the Black Sea, who stand guard over the free flow of the streams, blends into the voice of Munzur. We hear the call of poor villagers from all over the country, women who claim their land, their air, their water. But if we listen to them, we know that we can talk about a land that we can live on, and we have our habitats, from Edirne, to Hakkari, from Thrace, to the Kurdistan geography. We began our journey with a sign of peace; years passed, seasons changed, but ours has not changed. Right now, we're still saying peace on that stand. (Applause from the Peoples' Democratic Party) With all the oppressed, with all our peoples, we move our arms to build another world. The first thing the citizen sees when he walks out in the morning is not the cold face of the state, not the authoritarian state; we want him to see the social state; instead of his own voice, problems and demands, we want him to hear the bossy, authoritarian, polarizing language of hate. The economic, social, and political fact that society is so surrounded and isolated by the power of power that it is no longer a condition for the public to endure. This authoritarian system will surely change. Public anger and objections are growing, and the power itself determines that every day. Public opinion studies show that power is losing power day by day because public opinion isn't doing its research, and the real results are coming out. In 2002, the political and social wind, which brought the Justice and Development Party to power as a result of the crisis, is now becoming a wind that will take you out of power, and you are well aware of that. You no longer have a new story that promises society hope and a human future, that's your biggest weakness. There are vast social alliances of poor people who are oppressed by your alliance with conflict and crisis, the democratic alliance of those who favor democratic politics, the hope of democratic power and change, the courage. Now, social and political opposition has a new Turkish promise and a story to the public, it has a dream, and that hope is getting bigger every day. We care deeply about this country. In the Kurdish problem, we favour a democratic, fair, peaceful solution within the unitary structure. The HDP is not just a political party; it is a democracy movement that combines all identities, beliefs, languages, cultures, colors and unites the country from the east to the west. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) If you look at HDP's ideas, policies, and goals, you will see exactly the same democratic Turkey itself and equal new life. The multi-directional targeting of the HDP (HDP) is actually an intervention in Turkey's democratisation by trying to push it out of democratic politics through judicial operations. The obstruction of the HDP (HDP) is Turkey's block in all areas. Yes, the HDP corrupts memory, corrupts status quo, reveals the truth in the face of lies. Let the attackers, the targets, the accusers, take a look at the law proposals, the research proposals we've made to Congress since the eight years we've been founded, and look at our parliamentary talks, our proposals for solutions. We're the democratic debate and struggle party, from democracy to economy, from justice to foreign policy, looking for democratic solutions to every problem of the country, forcing power to do so. We've never compromised our problems, not through violence, but by negotiating, by talking, through dialogue, and we're never going to do it again. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) We conduct politics based on public and principles. Those who try to terrorize HDP, make it look like a criminal if they can't include it in their own single voice, those who set up judicial plots are doing great injustice and unlawfully. Those who can't stand democratic pluralism and different voices in politics are doing the worst to this country. Despite all your obstacles, we will never walk away from democratic politics; we will never give up our struggle for democracy, peace and justice; we will not back down, we will not kneel. What we care about is the emergence of a democratic mind. In state and in power rationality, the political mind is disabled today; there is an eclipse. The mind that currently dominates the state and the government is doing great damage to the country and society, wasting time, blocking democracy; it needs to be seen. Not with democratic rules and law, but with intimidation and intimidation, the idea of running the country is stealing from the future of 83 million, and we're trying to stop it. Instead of authoritarianism and autocracy, instead of democracy, justice and the rule of law, peace instead of conflict and crisis, democratic reconciliation and negotiations, the public will, instead of the public will, the truth instead of the lie. Yeah, don't worry, we'll keep screaming the truth. Turkey's people listen to us, care about us, care about us, and look at us and keep hope alive. We will never allow that hope to be extinguished. The day will come when the HDP, which you are trying to destroy with all your might, turn it out of politics, discredit it, will become a partner in democratic government in this country. It's a good thing this Congress has the HDP as the voice of truth. Fortunately, there are HDPs in the squares, everywhere, villages, towns, cities, schools, workshops, factories, with the people. I salute everyone. Once again, we promise our people that we will never stop growing hope and courage.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0012par0209	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0013par0210	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0012par0211	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0013par0214	Mr. President, thank you. We've heard two speakers speaking on behalf of HDP. He has a language that tries to talk about democracy, freedoms and rights, but misses that the biggest threat to these concepts is in the practice of Turkey and all over the world, with the attitude of darkness, temptation, the mind and the attitude of the terrorist organization that prevents negotiations. If you stand by the essential values of democracy, freedoms and rights, humanity, democratic politics in a country, you must clearly object to terror, terror, terrorist organizations, and, without a doubt, to Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), which has been threatening the democratic environment in every way for thirty-six years. But we have never once seen the People's Democratic Party, in the name of democracy, in the name of rights, in the name of freedoms that they talk about so much, objecting to terrorism in order to defend these values; there's always the state in the goal; there's always the state in the fight against the state's terrorist organization. They couldn't even say, "The struggle of governments against terrorism is justified and legitimate. Yes, it is, but it is necessary to remain on the basis of the law in this struggle.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0014par0217	You're fighting the HDP.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0015par0218	You're fighting democratic politics, Mr. Naci.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0016par0219	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0017par0220	We see the state's struggle with the PKK as well as all the states that have killed the teachers, killed the soldiers, killed the teachers, killed the doctors, but there are such problems in the framework of the legal principles of this struggle. I say: Yes, the HDP stands for democracy, freedoms and rights. We didn't see that. That's number one. As you pass the exam, you will also pass the examination of these concepts, the negotiation that terror has put on this country, with your attitude towards that threatening atmosphere that has wiped out the mind. Second, they talked about women, women's support for them. For 18 years, the EC PARTY has served very important services for the modernisation and urbanisation of Turkey. He has improved the social and economic conditions of all women in Turkey without exception.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0016par0224	Mr. Botanci, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0017par0225	If you're going to make it a righteous critical here, of course you can have criticism, but you have a couple of sentences about what's being done. Here, women are mentioned, but very few women are the answer to those words. For example, the mothers whose children were taken to the mountains are not in those women. For example, those girls who were kidnapped in the mountains, they don't exist. In addition, there are women killed in villages by the terrorist organization; they are not in that language. The weeping sisters of the martyrs, the soldiers, the nurses, the doctors, the teachers, and their mothers are not in the words of those women. If you're talking about women, you'll have a tongue that embraces them all, or it'll just come out as an ideological and logistical language. Third, they say they speak for the people all the time.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0016par0228	Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0018par0229	Mr. President, there is no such procedure. First of all, after all the speeches.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0016par0230	One minute, please. Please don't make it into a separate conversation period.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0019par0231	If you're talking about the public, you're going to use a more careful language in the name of the people who've been in power for 18 years, in the name of the man who's been in power, and the people who've chosen you and sent you here.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0020par0233	Don't we?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0019par0234	Of course you can criticize the reality of the people, but the reality of the people in this country, when you go out on the street, is the reality of the people who have been ruling the EC PARTY for 18 years, and the reality of the people who made Mr. Erdoğan President today. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) You can review it, but you'll have a careful tone because respect for it is respect for the people. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Finally, let me tell you: In this country, the Home Secretary has always dealt with your anger and anger, and you have criticised too much, but you have done the most criticism to Mr. Süleyman Soylu. Go, go amongst the people, and you will see that these criticisms of yours are seen as a sign of honor in his chest, in the sight of the people. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0021par0239	Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0022par0241	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, we've seen a lot of Hamasi talks in the House, and we live here, but we wouldn't expect you to, Mr. Bostanci, at least not you. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Now, you were the chairman of the Commission for Solutions established in this Parliament, where you watched, you watched, you heard, you saw the talks, you heard the talks, you heard the talks. You know the position of the MPs from the party that led us, which is already in the House records, so it's not a secret, it's an open-door thing. Therefore, the position of the HDP (HDP) today, the position of the People's Party (HDP) on social negotiations, social reconciliation, and social peace, is a stance that has continued from that day until now, and it is clear. And I was very clear in my speech here just now that we've never compromised our problems, not by violence and method, but by negotiating, by talking, by dialogue, by trying to solve them, and we're not going to.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0023par0245	Who creates violence?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0022par0246	Now, you know the testimony better than I do. But we don't have to discuss matters with the concepts you use. We have our own concepts, our own style, our own policy, and what's important here is the determination of the sentence that I'm talking about, essentially, not the way and the way that we talk about things, but the way that we talk about them. We shouldn't have any problems, and we don't have any problems so we can't talk, negotiate. That's how we look at it. That's why I can't accept your criticism for my group. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit01spe0024par0249	Thank you. Guys, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0024par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. The commission is in place. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the first statement belongs to Konya MP Abdulatif Sener. Here you go, Mr. Sener. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD party lines]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0025par0012	Mr. President, Mr. President, Dear Group Presidents, Co-Chairs, lawmakers, I salute you all. I'd like to start my conversation with an anecdote. Prime Minister Erdogan and I were on our way to Ankara on a helicopter. Of course, when the former Prime Minister sees the President in front of us, he needs to get into a little bit of this.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0026par0015	Memories...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0025par0016	And these were the first years of power, the first years of Mr. Erdogan's power, the beginning of the 21st century, and also the first years of the third phase of globalization. This event, called globalization, has really opened the country to the world from being shut down in itself. I've done good in every country. Look, there wasn't in the past, and now there's this; my country is good. It's something that takes away your right to say it. It's globalization. Competition has become global and the world has become a race for lions and gazelles on African savannas. As Friedman put it, a gazelle wakes up every morning on the African savanna, and he knows that as long as the fastest runner doesn't run faster than the lion, he is caught, torn and destroyed; and a lion who rises every morning in these savannas knows on that day that as long as he doesn't run faster than the fastest running gazelle, he starves and dies. Such a world is now inhabited by people, goods, capital, knowledge, technology, without limiting the globe. The capital travels the globe five times in five minutes; it looks at the New York Stock Exchange or the London Stock Exchange or the Istanbul Stock Exchange and settles the market that it sees most profitable. Or even in the neighborhood where your factory is located, you're not at peace, because if you don't produce the cheapest and most quality goods in the world, there are people on the other side of the world who produce more quality, cheaper goods, they close down the market in your neighborhood, and they bankrupt the market. Young people are not competing with their peers, they are competing with their peers around the world. In such an atmosphere, Mr. Prime Minister Erdogan presented with a 50-page summary of the world of the 21st century, the famous Friedman's book, "The World is Flattile" -- which was now translated within a month -- and we had a conversation about the third stage of globalization in the air. Friedman, according to neoliberal thinking, was a man who reads, interprets the world, and develops suggestions. There's an American Marxist -- he's studied the world system, as you know -- Immanuel Wallerstein, his thesis is extremely important, and the conversation shifted there. Wallerstein compares the world's economic system to a pyramid. At the top of the pyramid are rich countries, with fewer parts of the world and fewer populations, but there is a larger population at the bottom of the pyramid, and Wallerstein says that the relationship between the top of the pyramid and those below the pyramid is extremely important. Those at the top of the pyramid try to govern the economies in the undeveloped parts of the world in two ways: One, they transfer resources constantly; the second, they construct them according to their needs. This is extremely important. If you let yourself go into the autumn winds; if you try to do whatever work comes your way, without planning, without programming; if the government passes with joy and enthusiasm, in the end, the global winds will build your economy according to your needs, not according to your needs. (HPP) I'm afraid that's where Turkey is coming from. Look, employment... after 18 years of ruling, I looked at Turkey's unemployment report in the world. The point we see is that Turkey is one of the highest unemployment countries in the world, and unemployment in Turkey is much worse than any of the OECD countries in the history of the republic, and in 37 countries -- Turkey is the country where there is the most unemployment. When you look at 179 world countries, you see the same thing, one of the most unemployed countries is Turkey. And in this environment, our young people are miserable, devastated; you've taken away their hopes, you've made them unable to look at the future with hope. That's unemployment, but what's the status of the employees? The workers are miserable, and the workers are miserable in this country because of these wrong economic policies. For one thing, I'm looking at the figures from the Turkish Statistical Agency: people who are shown to work instead of being unemployed don't have the right to social security, they work off the record, so they don't have the right to insurance, they have the right to insurance. Is that even a painting? Where did this country come from, where did this country come from? Beyond that, half the workers already receive minimum wage, live on the edge of hunger, and 70 percent live within the poverty line, and inflation hits all the income groups, one of the world's highest inflations is in Turkey. Food inflation, twice the official inflation; kitchens turned into fires; electricity, gas bills hurt; school canteens, service vehicles, cafes, coffeehouses, restaurants, barbers, salons, entertainment venues, tourism sectors and many sectors are crying from lack of customers. Our president, our party speakers, has run out of words, so why don't you give direct, pro bono support to the people whose shop you closed? Even Egypt did it, the world did it. At last, this government gives 39 lira a day to the unemployed, to those who have been given a free leave, and to the closed-down business manager, says a thousand lira a month for three months, and he says £500 a rent. Dear friends, look, this is no way to run a country, this is no way to run a country. Look, I have a law that took effect in 1930 -- when the Republican People's Party was in power -- and what's in this law is 90 years ago; it states very clearly that Article 83 (apprehensively): I mean, this is 65 years old, because of the epidemic: when you're locked up in jail, when you're locked up in prison, you're putting people in isolation with people in their homes, you're giving them a hard sentence, you're not paying them a single dollar, you're not paying them the law, you're not even paying them the law, and you're not paying them the law. Since I'm not going to be able to explain all the income groups, I just want to say some things about agriculture and livestock. First of all, in this 2001 budget, you've reduced direct agricultural support, and you're not giving away the 22 billion you gave me last year.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0027par0022	2021.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0025par0023	Yes, fear God, for those who make those roads without spending a penny on roads, bridges, airports, you have put 31 billion dollars in the 2001 budget. In 2021, you give $31 billion to a bunch of dried salts, people who don't spend $1.00 in cash, and you give 10 billion to a total of 8-10 million farmers in this country. Is that Reva? (CHP and APPLAUSE) You also edited, the bank doesn't pay off the support of farmers who are in electric debt at first, and the farmer owes 130 billion debt, and you're constantly computing that debt with interest. And you have not been a derogatory government. Is the farmer left to pay interest because of the loans you've built? And the funny thing is, what does the government say last week in the 8/12/2020 newspaper? The road maintenance, car maintenance, guest hospitality costs of energy companies will be added to the farmer's electricity bill, he says. What kind of work is that? Why are you adding guests to the farmer's electric debt? Dear friends, you've ruined dairy this year. The increase you gave me was not enough to cover the bait price and cost; you gave me a 23 percent increase; the cost of dairy nerds has increased by 48 percent. The feeders are in the same situation; the cows, which cost 38 lira a cut last year, you're saying this year, you're going to cut at $33. What's the cut price when the costs are going up? Why is the value of a citizen's cow dropping? But your interest in imports is not in the Turkish farmer; it feeds the farmers of Serbia, Argentina, Brazil, and other countries of the world. That's the whole problem. [[Applause from CHP rows]] There's a lot of problems with a lot of products, I don't have time, but, for example, in beets this year, prices have both been explained late, they've been explained low, and they haven't specified how much you're going to get. The beet makers are at one point or another in the middle, and they're devastated. Look, there's no effort to find a new source of water in the Plain of Iconia. The government has put the Blue Tunnel Project in 2005, but there's no other project. Using underground water, it's down to 150 to 200 meters, waiting for it to dry, and you're not doing anything. Why? It doesn't fit your concept of funding there, but you're saving more than 100 billion resources for Canal Istanbul. I guarantee you, when you build that Canal Istanbul, they'll only get a lot of land around it, etcetera, and it'll bring a ton of disaster. (HPP and GOOD PARTY) Give that Canal İstanbul a quarter of what you have spent on the Plain of Konya, and the Plains of Konya will be watered from head to toe.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0028par0028	Bravo, that's it, halal!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0025par0029	With the remaining three-quarters, other 80 provinces in this country can be built to solve business and food problems. You've left the whole country, it must be Kanal Istanbul, there's a lot of money there, but I don't get it. Look, this is a graph of what you've turned Turkey into as a result of your policies. These reds -- 50 percent of the population in Turkey -- show their share of the total country's income; and the top blue -- one percent of the population shows how much they get from the country. This is not a random painting, it's a United Nations report. And you don't give half the money you've made for 1% of this country, half the population. If only one person had a stamp for nine or nine, and not a wolf for a wolf for a lamb, but you do.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0029par0032	You got the old one, not now, those are old numbers, those are old Turkey's.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0025par0033	Look, dear friends, I've had the world ranked to see what the total income of one percent of the population is like in the world. The income distribution is the most corrupt -- compared to 1 per cent and 50 per cent -- one of the five countries is Turkey, which is the fifth. I'm looking at who's out front, Qatar number one. I saw it. Oh, my God. I said, "I can see where the love of Qatar comes from in our family, it looks like them." (CHP and GOOD PARTY) Dear friends, look, this is not politics; give up, give up. Then, we look at the numbers, and I wonder how these prisons are doing. I didn't see any leadership, so I was wondering if I could discover a leadership... Mashallah, you've built as many hospitals throughout the history of the Republic, more; you've built prisons every year, every year; if I read them all, 18 years will go on. You don't miss a single year. Look, let me read after 2014: 14 in 2014... Is it a hospital or a prison?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0030par0036	You call it the hospital.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0031par0037	He's involved; make a decision, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0025par0038	Prison, brother, prison.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0032par0039	You got distracted when you saw our Prime Minister.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0025par0040	So I got a little sleepy to study for you, that's why. [[Applause from CHP rows]] 14 prisons in 2014, 18 prisons in 2015, 38 prisons in 2016, 12 prisons in 2017, 15 prisons in 2018, 26 in 2019, 18 in 2020, but you said -- this is your statement -- 39 new prisons will be opened in 2021.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0033par0043	We're doing what he calls the old ones. Leave it, how can it stay?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0025par0044	Well, anyway, we use concepts in their place.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0034par0045	Speaking of which, count hospitals and hospitals! Why don't you count the hospitals?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0035par0046	Construction in 1965.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0025par0047	Look, dear friends, aside from these prisons, I'm looking at the number of prisoners, there are 58,000 prisoners in 2002...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0035par0048	There's money, there's budget, we're doing it.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0025par0049	There are 291,500 prisoners in 2019. With this execution, with the amnesty law, we're going to charge 45,000...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0036par0050	Was there a place in the past? There wasn't one.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0025par0051	Yeah, do you know how many of your numbers were before? 232,000; you're a record there. And with the amnesty law, 45,000 people have been released, 26,000 people are now inside.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0037par0053	The people on the mountain must have landed there.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0038par0054	When you were at this party, what did he run away from? When you were at this party, what did he run away from?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0025par0055	Well, what kind of logic is that, dear friends? That doesn't make sense, no way, no way!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0038par0057	Did you have those statistics when you were in charge?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0025par0058	Why not? When your job is someone who's trying to criticize you, who's trying to expose your wrongs, who's trying to investigate the official numbers of the state you're hiding, who's trying to dig up the billion-dollar contracts you've given to the contractors, you're holding them straight from terrorism and asylum.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0039par0059	Give me an example, an example. There's no sample.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0040par0060	Mr. Aydemir, please...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0025par0061	We talked about that sample at the Plan and Budget Commission.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0039par0062	I've already told you, leave it here. There's no such thing. Give me an example.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0041par0063	Enis Berberoglu. One example is Enis Berberoglu.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0042par0064	Mr. Aydemir, you take your word for it, please... there's no such thing as a place.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0043par0065	Didn't you and Alparslan Kuytul put both Al Qaeda and ISIS together in connection with Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and ▪? Are these four organizations alike? Would a man be blamed for four organizations that would never come together? (CHEERING) You kept him in, kept him in isolation. For him, as far as you're concerned, all the people of this country's religion are concerned as long as they don't serve you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0044par0067	You didn't work with CHP, how did you become a deputy from CHP?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0045par0068	Don't shout!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0043par0069	Anyway, look, I was wondering how many people are in the prison. Turkey is the world's 8th largest country in terms of the number of prisoners. So, I'm looking at who these previous big countries are: first, the United States has four times the population of Turkey. Second, China has 17 times the population of Turkey. What else? There's Brazil, there's 2.5 times the population of Turkey. What else? There's Russia, twice the population of Turkey. What else? There's India, there's 16 times the population of Turkey. That's the case with the others before us, with more populations than Turkey. As you were saying, the world leader, the world leader, when I saw this, I said we found our world leader in prison and in prison. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, there's an offer of law on the Justice Commission today, the Proposal of Law Against the Financing of Mass Extermination Weapons. Well, dear friends, how many articles are you going to assign trustees to organizations? What does that law have to do with appointing trustees to organizations? And you love this trustee business, you start in municipalities, you don't get your enthusiasm, now you're skating towards the associations; no, no, no, no! The state is not ruled by desire and desire. But what I'm really going to say is from now on. Look, your unemployment rate, your inflation, your national income figures, it's all unreal. I've been working on national income accounts as an example, and there's nothing I haven't mixed up. You're so mixed up that you're changing accounts all the time, and that's not enough, we're revising past numbers every year. You're changing them again.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0046par0073	You know too much.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0043par0074	But you made two major changes in 2008 and 2016. Let's not go into 2008 now. What did you do with the change you made in 2016? One: we renewed these changes by 1998. You say. So this new way of counting before 1998 doesn't work, these growth sizes don't reflect. So you can't compare the number of growth, illegal domestic product and per capita product to any of the figures from before 1998. Second: you made the biggest increase between 2011 and 2016. And since you gave me the old series, I compared it to the new ones. According to the old series, you've increased growth rates by 116 percent. Between 2011-2016, you averaged the annual growth rate by 3.4 percent, and then you said: that's our growth rate, that's our national income. But even so, despite your numbers, look, in 1998, Turkey's ranking was the 18th. So, what's the 2020? You've narrowed Turkey to the 20th place, despite your inflated growth accounts, the 20th is given by your accounts. But what's really important? It's a national income per person. Because illegal domestic product numbers are not suitable for a complete comparison. The actual indicator is national income per person. Now, do you know how many in the world Turkey is in terms of national income per person?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0047par0077	What did he do in '98?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0043par0078	In the 78th row, friends ranked 78.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0048par0079	91, Mr. Secretary, you're pulling strings.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0043par0080	As of 2020, as of the end of the year, 78, 2019, 74, it doesn't matter. I've looked into it, and you're worse than the 1980s, worse than the 1990s. (Cheers and applause) This is what you've done to Turkey. But look, I have another painting: two professors from Oxford University, the relevant page and painting of their work. What did they study? As of the early years of our republic, they studied the world and the European economy. Look, from 1929 to 1937, Turkey has left four countries behind in the 15th place in 24 European countries, and has settled in the 11th place. Either this is what you call global competition, you keep going forward and you don't go back. There's also export numbers, you know. When you look at export numbers -- you're in exports -- your exports are not better than the 90s, not better than the 80s, not better than the 70s, not better than the 60s. Look, we were in the 24th place in 1960, and you're in the 33rd row in the exports of the world. In the same way, he was number 31 in 87, ranking 30 in 2002. You have wandered about in the 33rd and 31th and 30th places. You know why? Look, do you know how much the State Statistical Institute -- to be precise -- the terms: the export of high-tech products -- this government's latest figure -- is in total export? Three, four, not even three and a half. You don't have high-tech exports, but low-tech exports are 61 percent in total exports. If you run the country like this, it'll be your exports and your national income. But we're leaving the world... In the last five years, you've never increased the number of manufacturers in the manufacturing industry, and I'll tell you, it's been around about five million. Look, how much are McDonald's sales? 97 billion. How much are the sales of Coca Cola? 78 billion. When you add the two together, it makes 176 billion dollars, so it's almost twice the export of Turkey, 166, this year. Well, dear friends, look at what you've done with the economy, not the size of a McDonald Coca Cola. Aren't you sad at all?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0049par0085	Mr. Sener, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0050par0086	Mr. Sener, is McDonald going to make the budget?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0051par0087	It doesn't look good!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0052par0088	Or if you're talking about exports, the Volkswagen exports $282 billion, yours is 166 billion. How many floors are yours? So the numbers are growing, but dear friends, what I want to say clearly is that in this country where lions and gazelles are competing, you've pursued day-to-day desires, you can't apply macropoliticas, you haven't applied them, because your feelings, your thoughts, your interests were different, your interests were different. You didn't look at the world and say, "How can we be strong?" You didn't say, "How can this country's young people light up Turkey's future?"
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0051par0089	We produce drones, we produce SIHA, our national defence industry reaches 70 percent.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0052par0090	Don't call me National Education, Defense Industries, I'll tell you what's under it, but I don't have time.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0051par0091	Tell me, tell me, tell me what?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0052par0092	Tell the president to give me ten minutes, and I'll tell him.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0051par0095	Tell me what? Empty, empty, same things!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0053par0096	Get it from a friend who'll talk after you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0054par0097	Mr. Sener, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0055par0098	Dear friends, whatever number you're looking at, we're looking at a power that left Turkey behind in the race with the world, making Turkey skid.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0053par0099	Turkey is going to summits, summits.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0055par0100	Walking in the third phase of globalization with this power would be a waste to Turkey, I tell you that. Look, let me finish with a poem from Necip Fazil. Years have passed, and you've been skating. You're a kite kite in the sky, unaware of the world.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0056par0103	Thank you. The second statement on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group is from İzmir MP Selin Sayek Böke. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Sayek Böke. Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0057par0108	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of 2021. I salute the High Council and all the people who watch us on the screens. 83 million eyes and ears here. He knows that this budget is not going to change because he thinks the comma will change, but maybe he's looking through the budget to see if there's a solution to the problems I've been going through. He's looking at it because budgets are the basic text that determines everything that people go through. Every factor that affects your income, your job, your vaccine, your tax, your debt, your interest, your interest, everything in your life, and most importantly, budgets show what the authorities are; does power prefer production, or is it the runt? Whose power is power, the people's or the power of a handful of privileged Ryans that he chooses? A country's budget makes the country's government very clear. No matter what power says, no matter what perception it tries to create, it will come to light in the budgets as it is real. Here are the texts he expects for the shopkeeper, for the farmer, for the farmer, for the retired, for the workers, for the unemployed, for the young, for the women who can't work, for the women, and for the people who are waiting to be able to address the problems that are going to happen, the people who make that budget first need to understand the facts that people live in. Now, in this budget, there's no cure for the problems of the public. Why? Because the facts of the people from the palace don't seem to exist. (CHP cheers) The palace says that the facts of the people are different. For example, we are flying according to the palace, but since 2014, we have become poor since you practically imprisoned Turkey in this presidential regime. In 2014, the national income was $12,158 per person, and today it's $8,455 dollars, and it's falling; we don't fly, we roll, we all get poor together. That's the truth. For example, according to the palace, there's no unemployment in the country, you think 4 million citizens are unemployed, but that's not important. But when you look at the real data, there are over 10 million unemployed people in Turkey that you don't see; that you ignore the fact that you don't think they're unemployed because they're not looking for a job, because they're not looking for a job. The miracle solution is if the citizen doesn't look for work, then there won't be any unemployment problems. This solution condemns the citizen to dry bread. In fact, according to the palace, there's no unemployment, there's young people who don't like work. One out of every 3 young people is in Turkey, unemployed, and 64 percent of those young people -- I'm stressing, 64 percent -- are only willing to pay for the road, only to feed them; 64 percent of them. It's not like they're twisting their noses or anything, there's no work. For example, we rise to the court, but let alone the work that exists vanishes in the land. 733,000 jobs have been lost in the last year. Where do we rise to? According to the palace, there's no poverty in the country, no hunger, nothing to worry about. But even according to TÜİK data, 22 million of our citizens are suffering from serious financial deprivation, a problem, 22 million of our citizens. Hunger limit is $2.516, minimum wage is $2.324. The workers are poor, the ones who can't work can't live. According to the palace, there's no cost of life. If we believe in inflation, there are 14 percent inflation, whereas lentils have increased by 59 percent, sunflower oil has increased by 34 percent, eggs have increased by 76 percent, electric bills have increased by 30 percent, but we are expected to believe that there is no inflation. According to the palace, the pandemic is under control, and there's no problem there; there's no need to close, there's no need to support. If it's left to the palace, there's no need to explain the data; life will be much better if no one knows anything. In Covid numbers, even with this hidden data, we are the 4th worst-cased country in the world. Something's happening; people we love are dying, people we know are sick, everyone's worried. What happens when you hide it? According to the palace, in Turkey, neither the tradesman nor the worker need any support from the student or the medic. Everything is very comfortable for everyone; it seems so from the palace. According to the palace, $39 a day is enough to support the shop for $33 a day, but everyone owes it. The SMEs owe 865 billion euros to banks, and the consumers owe 830 billion liras to banks. You know, those loans, they've increased 40 percent this year, because they're backed up. How will they be paid? How can that anxiety be carried by so many people who can't work? How will the people you sentence to $39 a day, the people you sentence to $33 a day, pay for them? The gap between what the palace says and what the people experience is not just in the economy, it's all the same. According to the palace, there are no journalists in prison, but if you look at the truth, 387 journalists are in prison. According to the palace, there's democracy, there's a future. However, tens of municipalities were appointed trustees, elected by the people's will. A party of millions of voters received the vote called pests to be judged. (Applause from CHP and HDP) To a party of millions of voters who had won the vote, the party's leader, Mr. President, has been threatened. The law for gangs remained silent, those threats were ignored, and sometimes even supported. According to the court, there is law, but further reform is being continued. But local courts don't listen to the Constitutional Court. Millions who voted for Enis Berberoglu have been elected. Judges who receive instructions from the court's advisers are appointed to the Supreme Court in exchange for their services, but the academics of the KHK are not allowed to return to their jobs, while scientists of this country's labor have been declared innocent. Why? Because you want revenge. Why? Not from the palace, of course. The imprisoned politicians, Osman Kavala, have been waiting for justice, not days, not months, but years of prisoners. Not from the palace, of course. When the facts of the palace and the facts of the people don't match, of course, the budget of the people doesn't have a budget, it has a budget of the palace. This budget is a palace budget. This budget is a looting budget, this budget is the budget of the torpedo, this budget is the budget of the appropriation, this budget is the budget of dividing and disintegrating society, but let no one worry, we're here, and we're going to do the public budget after the first election. And that budget is going to change the order that created the heavy destruction that we're going through. Do you know why this order should change? Because we're getting poor because of this order, because of this arrangement, millions of people are unemployed. From the day we came to this presidential regime, each of us was $3,723 poorer than the average person. That's 30,000 liras for today's dry, we're 30 grand poorer, why? Because of the arrangement you've set up. Then we'll hear about history and international experience. When you look from 1990 to today, democracies have created 7 times more wealth than autocratic regimes, 7 times more wealth. We will bring that democracy, when that democracy comes, this country will prosper. And we know that prosperity will be shared, the order of the people will be established. We know that with a strengthened parliamentary democracy, with a legal state to replace the state of the king, the legal state that we will build, there will be predictability, there will be investment and employment where there is a vision. This order has to change, and you know why? Because of today's order, we all live a more expensive life. It's always too hard to make for the manufacturer, always too expensive. Every time the economy grows, these costs go up. Why? Because the order is broken, the order you set up is broken. Today's order is focused only on growth, no one is looking at what's next to it, a shallow economic understanding, a wrong macroeconomic framework, a framework that only knows demand-based policies. Any problem in the economy comes to power with a policy: let's give a debt. It's not called debt, it's called credit, because when you lend it to them, it doesn't show who's responsible. It's a loan. It's a loan. Whatever problems there are, there is a new promise of debt to the citizen; a new debt to the citizen, a capital loan; an increase in demand by tuition; an increase in inflation as a result of increasing demand; and the public will be crushed under the cost of life. But what the hell? The eyes of power don't see it in the palace. Debt to the manufacturer; return, take the importer, because there is no domestic production in Turkey; let the current explode when you buy imported goods; let the current be open when the current is open; let the country search for foreign currency there; let the Turkish lira lose value while looking for currency there; let the people's electricity bill swell when Turkish lira is lost. Who cares? Does the palace care? It's not. That's why we're going to change this order. To end the cost of life, to reduce our electricity bills, to make the price of lentils edible, we will change this order so that every citizen can put meat on every table. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Why should this order change? Because of this arrangement, the people are in debt, and the AKP is in debt to the voters; they are in debt to the People of the House; they are in debt to the People of the State; they are in debt to the People of Turkey; they are in debt to the People of Turkey; they are in debt to the AKP voters; they are in debt to the People of Turkey; they are in debt to the People of Turkey; they are in debt to the People of Turkey; they are in debt to the People of Turkey; they are in debt to the People of Turkey; they are in debt to the People of Turkey; they are in debt to the People of Turkey; they are in debt to the state of Turkey; they are in debt to the state of Turkey; they are in debt to the state of We owe more than that, and with the court's political direction, these are the loans from public banks. The citizen took the loan, and then he came back, paying off the duties of the public banks. Why? For doing business with a political directive. That's why we're going to change this order. To end the debt, to end the bankrupt loans, we're going to change this order so there's no more painful prescriptions. Why should this order change? Because of today's order, the interest is high in Turkey; it's high because of order, not because of lobbying, but because of your arrangement. You set up an unregistered parallel treasure, you set up an asset fund, an external debt-dependent arrangement, and here, that parallel treasure also increases interest as you try to borrow it with the Treasury. We're going to change this order, we're not going to let anything parallel to anything in this country. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it is possible to make the budget today to change this order, as long as it is political will. That political will, not at this time, but we do. The Republican People's Party has the political will to make the public budget that will change this order. Turkey has the resources to make that change. If you say where's the source... (AK PARTY) It's over, so just relax. Now, let's take a look at the Minister of Transport's own statements at the meeting on November 19th, according to Minister: We paid 83 billion 700 million dollars for public-private cooperation projects in 2020, due to the current and increasing rate of courtship. 83 billion 700 million liras. The pandemic goes on, people are hungry, unemployed, face to face with death, 83 billion, 700 million dollars updated, set up by the idea of a courtship, hop, runts in the pocket of a five-alarm gang, while people are fighting for their lives. (Applause from CHP rows) What updates will there be in 2021? We know like hell you're not gonna fall under this. Now, you know, that money came from the tax paid by the AKP voter, not from all the voters here, who paid the tax paid by all the political parties, who were updated and thrown into their pockets -- as the minister himself said -- that's 83 billion 700 million lira, that's people's money; that money came from the tax paid by the AKP voters, not from the sweat of five people. We'll make that money, the people's money, the people's money. For example, do you know what we could do today, not just with some of this money -- not all of it -- just with some of it? For four months, we could give $3,500 a month free support, totaling $26 billion. (CHP turns to applause) There's money, there's money, there's no political choice to give, but we have it. It's not enough, for example, for the two million workers you sentenced to free leave with some of this money, for four months, you can relax, I'm giving $3,500 of income support. You didn't say, you didn't say, you chose not to say, it would cost $28 billion. Who did you give the money to? You gave it to five companies. This is an open political choice. Our preference is clear, and only these two pens could support 4 million families, $3,500 for four months, 4 million families. Where are five companies, four million families? But wait, it's not over, it's only 64 percent of the money. Let's go on, we'd give $2.5 billion to the houses that were cut off because they weren't paid, and then the power wouldn't go out. The basic need, the basic need; no, you gave it to the five-alarm gang. We used to pay that bill from the social government to keep the power from being cut off. [[Applause from CHP rows]] It's not enough, there's more resources, it's not over, it's there. This year, we would support each of the young graduates, new job seekers, five billion liras. You can relax, you can look for a job, you can get an entrepreneur, I'm here. 5 billion liras, why don't you do it? Political choice, you'd rather give it to five people. Instead of passing it on to the five-alarm gang, it could support 5 million families, not 5 people, but 5 million families. You choose not to, and we choose to give. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Besides, the source isn't finished yet, 83 billion are standing there. Let's continue, with the remaining money, we would consider the health workers a Covid case of occupational illness. We'd get rid of unregistered health workers, Turkey's bleeding out right now. Not enough, vaccines, vaccines; we used to invest in RD to produce it ourselves. We know you're not getting enough. A sufficient number of vaccines would be taken and given as public service. There's a source, it's a question of where to use the source. We're going to change this order where one person is paid in five places and five companies are exploiting all the tenders in Turkey. (Applause from CHP rows) Let no one forget that Turkey's economy is greater than five ▪ and Turkey is greater than one. We shall surely change that for a change. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, we need to put the public in the budget. If you say where's the source? Here's the count, it's in the supporter's pocket, there's five companies standing there. We'll use it for the public. If you call it how, we will nationalize projects that cause public damage, unfair gains, illegal projects. I'm not talking about the company, I'm talking about those projects, the projects. Moreover, these projects cause public damage, with the tax of all voters, and they exploit the entire voter to destroy his future. And when we do that, billions, tens of billions, hundreds of billions of dollars will be your people again. Here's the source, we can do anything. If these projects were public, we'd have so much money, but the source isn't limited to that. You've started a family company called the Presence Fund, which no one can see what's going on inside, which can't be controlled. The Court cannot inspect it, and the Public Contraction Law is not subject to it, nor is it known what is happening. The company that comes in making a profit is being sold for damages. It's a great method, and you're selling the republic's legacy, the people's legacy. We'll shut down that asset fund and hand them over to the treasure. Your people will be your people again. And today, this Entity Fund is competing with the government's treasure. Because he's competing, the two institutions are competing to get the same debt, from the same place. The interest goes up, and you know what happens when that interest goes up? For three of the four who are in debt, the charge of interest is increasing, which cannot be repaid for the people you sentence to minimum wage, the people you condemn to hunger. Why? Because you created the Entity Fund. Why? So you can do some unsupervised work there. But once we shut down the Entity Fund, the interest will drop, the public and the manufacturers will be relieved. Another source: Of course, that interest, when you think about it, this year you've saved it to pay $180 billion interest in the budget, when interest falls, you won't have to make those payments, it's going to be used for the public. Another source: 67.5% of taxes in the palace's budget pay the same tax indirect tax, regardless of what you earn. Fair? No, of course not. We will bring justice to the tax. Did you win at the rant? You'll pay your taxes. Are you underpaid? You won't pay taxes. Did you miss the tax paradise, the hard-earned money here? We're going to publish the tax paradise list. The law tells us to publish. We'll publish it when we're in power because we'll obey the law. Then, that's where the taxes will be paid. Here's the source. When those taxes are paid, the source will be available to reduce the tax on the 15-percent taxpayer. It's all a political choice. There is another source: there will be law, transparency, inspection, accountability, the risk of the removal of private property at any moment with arbitrary decision-making. You have brought it forth, and you have brought it forth, and you have all the wealth you desire.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0058par0136	Does it have an example?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0057par0137	We're, we're... here, we're going to establish a legal order to defend these property rights, where we're going to open the way for production and employment. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The hotel and tourism facility will not be owned by the Minister of Tourism, private school owners will not be Minister of National Education, private hospital owners will not be Minister of Health. Public interest will be looked after, not profit, public benefit. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, 83 million eyes and ears are here. The Pandemide is here, looking for a pandemic of Nurse Esma, Dr. Özlem, and Mahmoud the Katman, who worked hard to protect the health of the people, to see if there will ever be an outbreak. My dear Esma, Özlem and Mahmoud, my brother, our precious 83 million citizens who are concerned about his health, we will change this budget. The palace's 2021 budget has reduced health costs by dollars, but the company hospital's payments are swelling on dollars, and we're going to change it. We'll definitely increase the health budget, change the content. We're going to build the Refik Saydam Institute for Hyphenism. We're gonna take him to foster care. That's how we're gonna make enough vaccines for ourselves.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0059par0142	The vaccine's being produced. It'll be vaccinated soon.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0057par0143	We will open public hospitals in our neighborhoods, not corporate hospitals, and we will consider all health workers who work with their lives as covid-19.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0059par0145	He's had occupational illness, and he hasn't been shut down.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0057par0146	You're uncomfortable because you can't, but we will. Coffee maker Hasan, Traveler Osman, Server Süleyman and his guide Ayten Hanım, and our closed coffeehouses here? What will happen to the six million traveling vendors who make income on the street? My dear trade brother, we know you've been starving for about ten months. Those of you who pardoned the court's nine-billion-dollar tax at a pen gave you $33, and we're going to change that. We're going to pay rent; we're not going to give insurance premiums; we're not going to be enough; we're going to be budgeting for the removal of the rent.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0059par0149	We've been listening to this for 18 years.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0057par0150	Is Uncle Mehmet the farmer's eyes and ears going to pay for our harvest this year? Your diesel is looking to see if I can get the fertilizer's support. Dear Uncle Mehmet, we will obey the law, we will obey the law, so we will give you the 56 billion liras that should be given to you according to the existing law. Today's government sees fit to pay $22 billion because it doesn't see the need to obey the law. And when we do that, because agriculture is over, because he doesn't see it coming to him, the young man who left his village, his neighborhood, and went to town, will return to you, willingly, and again, to the neighborhoods, to the villages, to the villages, to the villages, and to the lives. Selim Master's eye is here, he's started a small business with the money he's been working for years, and he's sweating with five other people, and he's here to see if the production costs will go down, would they invest again? Master Selim, we'll do it. We'll support production. Because of the import entry today, we're not going to watch you get crushed under that cost-effective burden because the Turkish lira has lost value, we're going to watch today's power, and we're going to invest in the railroad that you need to take your product to the harbor, and we're going to invest in the infrastructure of the bridge that you're really going to use. When we don't transfer this money to the Rantist projects, we're going to build six Osmangazi Bridges, not one, we're going to do it, and everybody's going to pass. Aslı, the branch worker at the plaza, Mary, who's going home to clean up, all of them looking here to see if Ahmet, who works at the factory, is working off the record at the workshop, could he get any work out of the budget? Büşra and Emre have just finished college, and I wonder if there'll be freedom and I'll be able to access new information on fiber optic networks. If there's a network, it won't have access to information unless there's freedom in it. Their parents are looking after them. What about their KYK debts? Dear young people, we know that you can't find work because of the current economic progress, and I can't look for it when all these jobs are gone. You're getting desperate. We know, it's all about the torpedo. You think, "They won't take me, they won't take me." There's no room for despair, we'll exchange it for a hand-me-down, we'll make the young people's budget. Rantçı, instead of investing in supporting budgets, we will create jobs, not reopen the factory that was opened 20 years ago, we will build new factories in four corners of Turkey. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Torpedoe, we're gonna put an end to nepotism. Today, one person gets five salaries, a family of five is sentenced to one minimum wage; that's what we're going to change. You will not know who you know, but what you know and what you will be important, dear young people and all the children born in Turkey, whichever political party you vote for, whatever identity you come from, you will receive the Nobel Prize for living in your country, all the young people, in this country, with the science you study in our own country, in the universities of Turkey, with the technology companies you will build here. (HPP) You will find here the vaccine of the world's epidemic, we will all do it together, and when you are a man of the year, you will experience this enthusiasm and pride in our own country. And millions of women, life is so much harder for you, we know, and we're partners. It's expensive for you to look for work; it's impossible even when you have a family elder to take care of at home. Although we search, it is much harder for us to find work for women than for men; even if it is found, there are lower wages and less insecurity. Millions of women are looking here to see if it changes. Don't worry, we'll build a social state, a day care center for every neighborhood, every neighborhood. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] When we don't get taxes from minimum wage, for women sentenced to minimum wage, that money will be women's freedom, and we'll do the women's budget, and most importantly, we'll start the family support insurance program. Every house under a certain income level will be invested to a degree in the bank account of the women in that house because they have rights. The public will have insurance, security, and with the assurance of family support, all women, young and disabled will have access to education and employment. All these things we're going to do are just a few, a lot more. Despite the pandemic, I'd like to address Gülay and Khadija, who were held captive in the factory, as well as a million household workers who work without insurance. I wonder if we'll have rights. It'll happen when we make a budget. All employees will be unionized, order-based. Health, education, housing, guaranteed wage, selection and selection; all protected by law and social state.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0060par0161	Here you go, Mr. Sayek Böke.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0057par0162	I am, Mr. President. These are the few things we're going to do. Everything is a political choice. Are we for the people, or are a group of allies for the rich? Protect the citizen or protect our own seat? Are we going to chase after our own bed or do we go public? Everything depends on our political choice. Our preference is clear: we will bring to our country the order of the people, not the palaces; we will bring to our country the order of oppression, of fear, of free streets and of law. We will not bring to our country the order of poverty, hunger, poverty, and misery; we will bring together the order of enrichment, of sharing wealth with each other. In today's depression, we're not going to get any pessimism because the period of rant, corruption is over, the period of the people is beginning, and the door to tomorrows that we can all meet in a common future is opening. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Not with endless vengeance and hatred, but with a culture of life together thousands of years in this land, we will embrace our futures, not this vengeance and hatred. And we will carry Turkey together to the 2nd century of the republic. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit02spe0061par0168	Thank you. Guys, I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0061par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. The commission is in place. Now, the first word on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group belongs to Mr. Efkan Ala. Here you go, Mr. Ala. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0062par0008	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and respect and conversation, my most respected nation watching us on their screens. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I wish you the best of luck in our 2021-year budget that we've been interviewing. I believe that the budget for 2021, based on fiscal discipline, will be the most fundamental supporter of the process of transformation and change in the economy. Our budget is based on the performance-based programme budget system, and it consists of 68 programmes, aimed at sustainable growth in the medium-term without compromising fiscal discipline. The 2021-year budget, education and health, will serve as an important role in increasing the added value that we have produced in all sectors, including justice, security, energy, agriculture, transport and industry. Precious lawmakers are estimated to increase budget costs for 2021 by 23 per cent in the previous year's budget law to 1 trillion 95.5 billion TL ($1 trillion 346 billion). The outbreak of Covid-19, which has severe consequences on all economies at a global level, of course reduces predictability for the future. This suggests that global economies could face the risk of turning difficult turns in the fourth quarter of the year and in the first quarter of next year. But don't worry, Turkey has also been able to grow by 6.7% in the third quarter by breaking up positive in this period. (APPLAUSE) Even developed countries have been unable to know what to do with the epidemic at first, while we have managed to manage the process in the most reasonable way, and we continue to do so. I hereby thank all our health workers for their admirable performance. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been better understood in this period of plague, when our investments in healthcare and reforms are vital to the world. City hospitals have become Turkey's 100th century. We've built 13 city hospitals, and 11 city hospitals are under construction. Although there have been critics. Earlier, when people couldn't get into hospitals, they died in hospital lines, today, our citizens in city hospitals receive five-star services. (AK PARTY) We also covered the gap in service that appeared when your president was in office and people were suffering. Clap, congratulate, thank you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, our services are not limited to counting. We've combined hospitals, we've made the drug accessible to everyone, we've insured everyone until the age of 18, we're running in 17 helicopter ambulances, three aircraft ambulances, six boat ambulances, every corner of the country in the country, any country in the country that needs it. So far, we've interfered with 61,000 cases, and we've done the transplant. This type of ambulance service used to be admired on television by our citizens by some developed countries. Now, we've brought these services to the order of our citizens. That's what we did, that's what service is, that's what an AK PARTY is. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we take and implement the economic measures our employees, our employers, our tradesmen, and all who are affected by the epidemic, on time. And we'll continue our journey, carefully and in the best possible way. We are a party that has solved many domestic and external crises that we have encountered since 2002 by turning them into opportunities. We, my friends, are a big thinker's party. (EC PARTY) That's why the crises we've solved since we came to power, the jobs we've accomplished, the services we've done, have been in our nation's heart, and it's been carved into Turkey's political history so that it can never be erased again. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Members of parliament, it is necessary to look at Turkey from the world and understand what is happening in its region in order to understand the success we achieved during the EC PARTY administrations. After the end of the Cold War, the world entered an age of uncertainty, regional conflicts arose. During this period, the world suffered a major global crisis, such as the 2008 economic crisis. Near us, a member of the European Union Greece went bankrupt, Syria returned to its place of fire, the Middle East was destroyed, millions of people were displaced and the world watched. On the other hand, besides this uncertainty, chaos, and conflict, injustice is at stake. According to 2019 data, about 45 per cent of the world's economy, which is 87.8 trillion dollars, is owned by G7 countries. The value of 10 of the world's most valuable companies is 46 times the national income of 58 less developed countries. Such political and economic order is impossible to maintain, and it is not fair; Turkey's objection is to that. After World War II, international organizations, especially the United Nations, have become increasingly ineffective, founded on injustice. The world is greater than the United Nations and other international platforms that our president has expressed in the United Nations. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) This word also has been widely echoed in the oppressed nations. What a result of the economic development achieved by neglecting human beings, this Covid-19 epidemic has clearly shown the world. Many countries panicked when faced with the plague. However, keep the people alive so that the state may live. This nation, who has made its promise, has managed this process in the best possible way and continues to govern it. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are a country that continues to develop in the middle of a major fault line in Turkey's region, continuing its development. As these developments took place on a global scale, events that could happen every 100 years around Turkey have been happening, instability has increased categorically. Most of these negative developments are happening right next to us. In the midst of the political fault line, our country has signed many memorable services by maintaining its unity, its integrity, its order, and its reforms. Today Turkey is a global actor, a regional power. Turkey has become an unintended country, unable to form an equation in its territory without being asked. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In today's world, leaders have also become very important in diplomacy. One of the most important leaders to guide the course of the world is our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan. If any problems were to be discussed in our region, it would not be possible to make a decision without meeting with the United States, Russia and Turkey. Turkey was with our brothers in Azerbaijan, taking initiative in Libya. The Turkish Armed Forces now serve for peace and stability abroad and in 14 different foreign missions on three continents, along with fellow and allied countries. We traded scissors in the fight against terrors with drones and drones of our own generation, which were our pride in the defence industry and were not sold to us, even though we had paid for it in time. They even criticized them. We've achieved historical achievements in the fight against terrorist organisations in the country and abroad. The success of the SIHA (SIHA) in Azerbaijan has been made history as an intervention that has changed the course of the war, and such headlines have been made in foreign newspapers. What are you doing to us from time to time in Syria? What are you doing in Iraq, in Libya? I'd like to say this: A table is set in the Middle East, and if you do not have a seat at the table, you may be on the menu. (AK PARTY) We are both in the field and at the table, we are in the field to be on the table, we are in the field, so that the terror state may not be established next to us, we are in the field to set free the occupied lands of Azerbaijan. Turkey is always with our Azerbaijan brothers with all its resources; we were with you yesterday, we are with you today, we will be with you tomorrow. (AK PARTY) We are on the field in Libya to disrupt the game of the great forces, in the Blue Land, in the Eastern Mediterranean, to protect our rights to the fullest. We are proud, proud, and grateful to those who have done so, with 408 billion cubic metres of natural gas that we have found in the Black Sea. Friends, don't clap for me, clap for the gas. Today, in 142 countries around the world, we are on the field with 248 foreign diplomatic missions and diplomacy. Dear friends, TİKA operates in 170 countries today. We're in the field for 130 artifacts. Today, Turkey is an active foreign policy-seeking country from Kosovo to Palestine, from Africa to the Caucasus, defending the rights and law of all oppressed nations on every platform in the international area. He helps many countries, and according to personal income, he is number one in the world. We sent medical supplies to 156 countries while the world wavered due to the plague.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0063par0030	I wish you'd sent it to Pain.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0062par0031	While other countries were taking planes out of the air for masks, our planes were greeted by our apronounced, dear friends, foreign ministers. We salute these services. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In a geography with so much global and regional hardship, dear friends, the EC PARTY has tripled the economy in its 18-year rule, and we have tripled that economy.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0064par0034	Where?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0062par0035	Now, one of our friends who spoke from the CHP just now said, "Where from?" he said, "Where from?" Friends, this is Turkey's illegitimate national product.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0065par0037	You've got it upside down.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0066par0038	I wish you'd mention the 1900s.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0062par0039	Look, this is 1960, this is 2002, this is what it says. This is what it says, 1998; now, from here on, the AK PARTY. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) That's the economy.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0065par0040	It's like you've got it upside down.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0062par0041	So what do you do for conjunctural details, brother? A person is a person. He says, "Come, it will happen to a person." These are on the World Bank website, folks, the graphics you can see when you enter, I didn't do it, the World Bank graphics. (EC PARTY Applause) This one happens to each other, friends, per person. Look, guys, from 1960 to 2003. Then, you see, after 2003, that missile you see, that missile, that's the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0067par0043	Landing, landing.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0062par0044	Here, this missile is AK PARTY. That's all the national income, and that's per person. I'm talking about the graphics on the World Bank website. Well, poverty... let's say poverty, gentlemen, from the World Bank website again. There's 2003, look where poverty is, but this time it looks like it's coming from the moon, it's like a missile, and here we are in 2018, here we are. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here, dear friends, when you say something, look at what you've done in the past when you've been promising stars in the sky. Sir, you've seen where we've come from. And now you say, "Saray," and then you say, "Saray," and then you say, "Saray." Gentlemen, where you call this place, all of our chiefs are having a meeting. (AK PARTY) During your time, the citizen was unable to enter Kızılay, Kızılaya. He couldn't get into the Red Moon with the hat. I'll tell you what you'll do when you get to power. Well, you don't get clean paper with this rap sheet. (AK PARTY) It's called "clean paper" in Anatolia. Dear friends, because of the plague, we sent medical supplies to 156 countries this year. Now, who paid the last installment to the IMF in 18 years of power? (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) I'm speaking to the authorities who have been crawling through the IMF doors since 60, we've paid the final installment, we've closed the account with the IMF. Don't look at the conjunctural trend, a power that leads from here to there like a missile, that one day, a year, some inside, because of the outside, due to the conjunctural measures, or the attacks, brings the performance of the attack to its proper place even faster, friends. (AK PARTY) Look, we've raised Turkey's exports from $36 billion to $180 billion. Today, 193 countries are registered to the United Nations, but there are autonomous zones, dear friends, and we are a country that can export to more than 200 countries and regions. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) No time today, or -- exports to one of our provinces are worth more than 122 countries in the world, just Bursa. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, only 66 defence projects are being conducted when the EC PARTY comes to power, while today, in 2020, the number of valuable friends has increased by 11 times to 700, and project costs have risen from $5.5 billion to 75 billion. As of today, we have seven companies in the defense industry among the top 100 companies in the world, and our defense exports are up from $248 million to $3 billion. (ARK PARTY) Our own production and the envy of the world's drones and SIHA are the world's projects. That is the attainment, and that is the pride. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we've opened universities in every city in Turkey, from 76 universities to 234 universities.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0068par0052	There's college, there's no teacher. No teacher, teacher!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0062par0053	Today, we have 8 million students studying at universities. We're giving college students 45 lira scholarships a year, and now we're giving them $550 scholarships. We opened the college doors to all our young people without distinction, without looking at their beliefs, without looking at their identity, we removed the college fees for the young people, we threw away the ban on the headscarf, and you...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0068par0055	You give young people an unemployment degree.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0062par0056	Friends, politics, total power, opposition, politics and political quality of a country are all involved. So I'm telling you, dear Republican People's Party MPs: you supported February 28th, you took the constitutional amendment that freed the headscarf to the Constitutional Court and had it annulled. Now our headscarf girls are judges, cops, teachers. What happened? What happened? Turkey has won. Turkey has won. Today, without distinction, we have all our children in college with headscarfs and headscarfs. Do you feel any shame at all for supporting those who have caused these sufferings to the young people of Turkey in the past? I'm really asking. It's a shame about this country! [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Our goal is to build a good future for young people, to give them a built-in, developed democracy, developed economy, developed Turkey. The policies of the EC PARTY are social state policies. One third of this country was living below the poverty level in the early 2000s, and I've just shown it -- we've eliminated it.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0068par0059	Now he's starving.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0062par0060	We increased social welfare and services 32 times, raising it to 50.8 billion TL. There are only four types of welfare programmes being implemented, while 43 different types of social welfare programmes are being implemented today. Dear friends, we can't finish by counting the services of the EC PARTY, and we can't stop counting some. We've moved the divided roads from 6,000 kilometers to 27,000 kilometers. The roller coaster didn't even have a name, and now there's a train track that's 1,213 kilometers fast. We have increased the number of airports from 26 to 56. The airway that used to be luxurious is now the way of the nation. (ARK PARTY) We made Marmaray. Dear friends, the Conqueror has taken the ships from the land, we're running the train under the sea, we're his grandchildren. We built the third bridge, the third airport, the Eurasia Tunnel. The Osmangazi Bridge -- my dear brothers -- is a worldwide project on the Izmir Highway. The multitude flowed, and we were looking; and we built the Deeper Dam, and the Dam of Joseph. So we solved the problems of the countryside, and solved the problems of the villages. By building 975,000 dwellings with the TOKI, we solved the nation's housing problem and solved the housing problem. Now, my dear congressman friends, the AK PARTY is the party of reforms. Write down the CHP, it's equal to the status quo, it's not missing anything; write AK PARTI, it's equal to the exact location. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Two, Turkey's political -- this is important friends because politics includes opposition to the politics of a country -- is the party that saved the area from custody.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0069par0065	We even saved CHP from custody.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0062par0066	February 28th, we threw it in history's trash. For a century, we would have satisfied our nation's longing, and we would have opened Ayasophiah. In Turkey, we've made revolutionary reforms that people don't even dare talk about. AK PARTY has saved national will from custody. AK PARTY has made a switch in politics. Look, guys, in the old days, everybody used to talk, say the last word in old Turkey, the focus of custody, the head of a custody center. Today, now, everybody's talking, the last word is people's will, the President of the nation's chosen. He got 52 percent of the vote. In the state, of course, in the state. While we were doing this, where were you as friends, as the main opposition party, as Ce-Ha-Pe? On February 28th, you became a supporter of the tanks. When it was given, the AK PARTY hit them in the face, and you sided with them. Plans for the coup were made, you didn't take a stand for democracy.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0070par0067	Then you hit him.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0062par0068	Turkey's legal history was decided to be a black, black stain, 367, and you applauded. You're the subject of this disgrace, poor Turkish law history. You led him to the Supreme Court, not to democracy, but to stand by the ward. While we were doing the reforms, you defended status quo as an insufferable ally of the status quo, hoping for custody, even taking the job so far, you started to beg for custody from the outside when we did the internal custody centers. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Stop it, guys, stop it. Look in the chest, not in the corridors of the ruling guardianship institutions, not abroad, but in the polls, face the nation. Even though you didn't smile in the trunk, you were beaten 15 times in 18 years.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0071par0069	Remember Istanbul.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0062par0070	You've lost 12 elections, 3 referendums. If there was a fall in politics, there wouldn't be any Ce-Ha-Pe-Pe. But you keep saying "diktator" all the time, and now I'm going to draw you two profiles. Brother, now, look, every time you come up here, you say that, now let's see who it is, dictator. Our president took every political crisis into the chest? Well, he applied for the nation's arbitration and won every time, but you brought every political problem into court, allied with the custody institutions, hoping for help from them. My dear brothers, you have lost every choice. You're not dictators, and we're dictators? (APPLAUSE) You did the same to Ozal, you did the same to Menderes, and you did the same to the nation, by the will of the nation. Dictatorship has made a home for your soul. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Now, look, Mr. President is here.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0072par0073	We know who the dictator is!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0062par0074	Mr. Kilicdaroglu, look what he says. He says...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0072par0075	We know who the dictator is!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0073par0076	Guys, I promised one person, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0062par0077	Friends, on January 12, 2011, we have a 40 percent target in the election. I'm saying the words of Mr. General President, and I'm not adding anything. If we fail, we won't do it alone, but as a whole management staff, we won't do it well. Come on. We'll say good-bye. January 12, 2011. I'll tell you what's on TV, no harm done, it's TV. CNN says on March 27, 2015: "My goal is 35 percent. What happens if you can't catch it? If we can't catch it, we'll pay the price, why shouldn't we pay it? The question is: Can you pay it? Can you pay it for 35 percent? It's down to 40 percent. 2015, May 22nd -- again -- that's the question: you got 26 percent in the last election. Will you give up this figure and if you stay below? Of course. I don't have to stay in my seat, Mr. President. Where does he look people in the eye and say that? It's on TV. Does Recep Tayyip Erdogan leave with him? He won't quit. Friends, it's not the history that tells people the truth, but it's the power that doesn't exist. Now, what is Recep Tayyip Erdogan doing? You're comparing the two. My brother, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, was elected by 34.5 per cent; he gets 52 per cent; and the people, with the Dombra, take up all the elections because he's called Recep Tayyip Erdogan. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Dear friends, I'm running out of time. For him, our vision is an improved, improved Turkey. As we solve crises, global developments, regional problems, and attacks inside, listen to this -- the conjunctural temporary measures that we've taken can't cloud our original vision, can't change our direction. Our main strategy in our region is to create a climate of peace and peace around us, respecting the territorial integrity of neighbouring countries. My dear brothers, we will defend our country's rights and interests with diplomatic channels, regardless of who they are, regardless of who they are; we signed the European Union, we started the negotiations, don't worry, we're the ones who will continue.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0074par0083	One moment, Mr. Ala. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0062par0085	Our goal is to build an advanced democracy in which 83 million are considered first-class citizens, based on 83 million of our citizens, which each individual has innately, by its nature -- this is our understanding of civilization -- which is untouchable, untamable fundamental rights and freedoms in the best way; we've done a lot of reforms for it, we've done a lot of reforms for it; we're going to keep doing it, and we're going to keep doing it. We will move Turkey to the top 10 economies of the world. In many areas, such as law, democracy, economics, we will carry out the process of simultaneous, multi-tasking reforms without hesitation, dear friends. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, last but not least, thank you for your patience. Friends, even if you try to stop us, we will walk together on these roads for a more prosperous, more developed, more advanced Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] . We've been on these roads together. We'll walk, we'll walk, and we'll take Turkey to the top 10 most advanced economies in the world. We'll bring them out, my dear brothers. I won't push your patience any further. With these thoughts, I wish our budget for 2021 to be a blessing to our country and our nation. He salutes you and our citizens who are watching us at the beginning of the screens, and I'd like to present a statement to our citizens that all of our talk here is about politics, party politics, party leadership. Otherwise, we're more important to respect the will of our citizens than anything else. We greet each one with respect, no matter what they choose, but we expect them to choose us. God be with you. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0075par0094	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0076par0095	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0075par0096	Mr. Special, I'll give you my word after the talks on behalf of the group are complete.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0076par0097	Mr. President, I know this is the way you follow, and we respect that, but Mr. Ala said his words, and I wanted to file a report so he wouldn't be happy that we didn't ask for an answer. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0075par0099	Dear friends, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the second word belongs to Group Deputy President Tokat MP Özlem Güzel. Here you go, Mr. Rich. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0077par0103	Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, the President of our Plan and Budget Commission and the very valued members of our political parties, Mr. Presidents of the Group, my dear friends of Congress, and our precious nation watching us on the screen, I salute each and every one of you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm sorry, something's stuck in my throat, and I'm a little uncomfortable, and I'm really sorry.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0078par0106	Get well soon.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0077par0107	Of course, we've come from a long marathon, the words, the running, the sleeplessness, the inconveniences of our friends, the testing of us over and over again, and we're here today, and we're here with you on the last day. I'm very grateful to Mr. Efkan Ala, who, in general, described the activities of our party. I'd like to express that these conversations are a complete and complete conversation in a wholety. Of course, the life of a lawyer taught me that all the dissolutions, all the dissolutions -- this is family law, this is corporate dissolution -- always come to financial dissolution, so at the end of the day, it actually comes to budgetary, property dissolutions. I'm investigating the same thing in the General Assembly. No matter how much we talk about budget numbers, even if we want to keep talking about them, we're always coming to one of those dissolutions. Naturally, in my speech today, I'm going to underline this idea of dissolution. Of course, here at the General Assembly, every conversation is valuable. Because we're all aware that what we're doing here is a job we're doing to understand, to understand, but these arguments are sometimes very micro-levels. So we're talking about our own province, talking about individual wrongs. Of course, these are of remarkable value, but despite everything, we need to go over what we're doing on the macro, the larger plane, why we're doing it. We need a sense of reality, so we need to remember what we're doing, why we're doing it. My fellow legalists will know very well, and my colleagues in forensics sometimes ask questions about what's past and what's not going to happen when they're being tested on legal licenses, so what did you do today, what did you eat? So I'd like to make some insights into what we're going to do today, maybe, about the moment. Today the AK PARTY is here for the 19th budget. This means that backwards, the AK PARTY has budgeted 18 of them. So today, we're doing the budget for 2021, and we're saying our final words about 2019's exact accounts. So why is the AK PARTY doing this, why? I mean, what's behind this? There is no doubt that behind this is power and the will of the nation. I mean, I've always seen this very seriously ignored in conversation here. I mean, when you're talking to the AK PARTY here, the will behind the AK PARTY is, yes, the will is for you people, but you have to remember that it's the nation that gives you the will to make a budget. And I'd like to say that there is no precedent in the history of the Republic. So, in the history of the Republic, there's no other government that's budgeted 18 times in a row, and there's no other party.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0079par0112	Not in Europe, not in the world.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0077par0113	Yes, my friends are telling the truth, and they're not in Europe. There's no example in any European or world country that comes out of the chest in democratic ways. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) I think it's very important to understand what that means because understanding is understanding people. Because I believe that every one of my friends, every one of my fellow lawmakers here, asks himself, why do I do politics? Of course, we have individual stories that bring us here, but beyond that, each political party has its own story and its own perspective. And the most important thing about this perspective is that I think I'm going to be able to be in power to make your dreams come true. I mean, I think it's incredibly important. Now, let's turn around and see -- in these 18 years -- it's very easy to say -- but -- we've made six parliamentary elections, we've made a general election, we've made two presidential elections, I mean the people have chosen, I don't mean the House. We've had four local elections, three public ballots, so we've had 15 elections in 18 years. I mean, we've had an election every year and a half, and every time we get out of here, it's the first party, every time. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I mean, I'd like to say that our, of course, is the first contact of each political party, the nation. When we look at it like that, it's a tear in the eye. It's incredibly proud of our party, and I think it's a myth. For world history, for the history of politics, this state is a myth, and each time our nation has revealed its decision again and again, its will, its party and its support for our President. Now, in the talks here, recently, especially after the presidential government system, there's been a tremendous lack of dignity in the language used. Some concepts are chosen, coded, spoken through these codings. And we're going to open them up, and I want to say a little bit about what these codings mean, but to discredit them, I think it's a small form of opposition. Because we don't have to make each other worthless to tell people about our business. I think we should talk about our ideas, let people make up their minds. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, looking back, 18 years of Turkey have passed so fast... that I'm one of your brothers who's been working this party since the beginning. Now, our population in 2002 is 65 million, and we're coming to this day, and our population is 83 million, so there's a 30 percent increase. It's a young population, a dynamic population, and we're proud of it, a great hope for us, for the future. And, of course, with this growing population, there are new problems. When we arrived, Turkey had incredible piled-up problems, layer by layer problems. On the one hand, we solved these problems, but on the other hand, we made a huge effort to get Turkey to move to another league by setting new goals for ourselves, and it's about both the idea and Turkey's existence, and it's about Turkey's level of development. Here, our friend Efkan Ala has just expressed: in every field, alone, from health, transportation, education to everything, international law, and, of course, the processes in our lives. You're looking at the Constitution, we've changed it, individual freedoms, here's an illegal Turkey. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) It's an illegal Turkey. An individual application to the Constitutional Court...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0080par0120	There's no sign-up sheet, no results.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0077par0121	So when we looked at it like this, it led to remarkable progress in Turkey, including the law, the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0081par0122	If the Supreme Court answers, it'd be great if they'd make a decision.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0077par0123	And of course, we're not living in a static world, and the world is changing rapidly, and it's going through the processes that change the most. When we look at it, we see concepts change, boundaries change, resources that refer to us in international law change, and Turkey is no longer a country that can only continue by leaning on a pact. It's not like that in the world. Here are the countries that are in it -- it was the EET, it was the European Union -- they question their presence in it: should they stay or continue? New relationships, new networks are emerging in the world, and naturally, Turkey is taking every single one of these relationship grounds and putting new positions on it. Of course, the first issue of politics -- I've just expressed -- is to detect problems, to solve problems that occur in the day and future, to reveal your ability to solve, to demonstrate your will. In that sense, we've also pronounced huge dates as well as short-term solutions. For example, when I first heard this, I said: "How distant is the date, can we see that date?" I'm looking at it today, here's 2023 at our door. 2053, 2071; we will most likely not testify to them, but the existence of these ideals is extremely important to Turkey. What our President is doing is he's drawn a future horizon for Turkey, a future perspective. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, in the days of the pandemic, in the days of our arrival, there is a new concept that the world has been discussing, the concept of governable democracy. In particular, Italy, which is at the level of developed countries near us in the pandemic, is Spain, where when we look at them, one of the most fundamental problems of these countries is that they can't actually form long-term governments. Not just them, look, for example, Belgium, a country considered the cradle of democracy, was without government for months. The Netherlands was without government for nearly a year. Germany had difficulty forming a government in its latest elections. In fact, it's come to a painting that, in the case of the Neonazi party, the 2nd party, if it continues with the current system, it should be in the coalition; if it doesn't, it should leave it out another problem. So the world is now discussing new things about its perception of democracy, it's judging on a governable democracy. For example, what does France do? Your two elections are trying to bring closer dates of the presidential election and the parliamentary elections. Here, a law has been made in Italy, and it is discussed that the opportunity to get 40 per cent of the vote is given to the government. Why am I saying this? For what it's worth, here's what Turkey saw before all this came about. We've always come as the first party. If nothing had changed, we'd still be party one, and we'd still be in power. But the experiences at this point have shown us the importance of a more stable administration for Turkey, a government coming out of the chest, and we have the opportunity to see this urgent solution that the world is looking for before anyone else. Of course, these discussions -- the debate on the presidential government system -- are not new, but in Turkey. So you're looking at the translations in 1920, the 70s, the 90s... we've seen a lot of talk about this at the President's level, even the President's level. But of course, it's been a blessing to us to do so, but I also think it's a good idea to take a look at the process, so where it came from, where it came from. Mr. President, it's impossible not to come when you just mentioned 367. Because everyone here has their share, so there's a share of power, but there's a share of opposition, and there's a part of that. Now, you're looking at the 61 Constitution, the 61 Constitution -- your property -- has a very symbolic President. We're coming to 82, a very powerful President, even a president too powerful to match the spirit of the parliamentary system. And then, thanks to you, something called the 367 crisis appears, so Turkey's explanation is one of the most difficult crises. There's Parliament on one side, there's the Constitutional Court on the other, which is an extraordinary crisis for us to be ashamed of, in fact, the 367 crisis. To get out of here, we've made a constitutional amendment and a referendum on the election of the President. So what happened? In fact, the public has begun to choose a very powerful president. The Constitution changed there, but with its first application, the people chose it, so even though we didn't say its name, the 367 crisis actually brought us into the presidential system, so we're actually there. It was already a matter between us -- of course, that's what I'll be coming to July 15th -- and in the end, the presidency has been passed over to the government system. When we look at Turkey's political history, it's actually a movement, which means that, in this sense, it's a result of the following political events, as a result of politics, power, the search for solutions, and the nation appreciates that. So, not only did he choose our candidates each time when he went to the candidates that we showed him, but he confirmed the ideas that we told them, and our nation was the cause of his coming out of the chest and finding life; it was their will. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Of course, Mr. President of the State Gardens is here, and I would like to express a few things about July 15th, if they will, because July 15th is a very important turning point for Turkey in this sense. They still refer to the July 20 coup to reduce July 15th. This is a really sad statement because July 15th was not just a coup attempt by a group of coupters and civilians in this country, but more than that, it was actually a very fundamental intervention in Turkey from the outside, and with this intervention, it was a tremendous attack on both the state and the nation. So, as a result of this attack, the need to investigate the government was born, and it also needed to investigate the people. Here, along with the amendment to the Constitution, the Presidential government system is a system that investigates the state, along with this constitutional amendment by Mr. State Garden and Mr. President, both parties. And this alliance is an alliance that investigates the nation. (AK PARTI and UMP rows) Sarih, clear, in front of everyone, is that the will to strengthen the state and the nation for the future of Turkey is very clear what is what is what is. Now, of course, word games are being made about the presidential government system, there are expressions used. I think it's some kind of virt, let's hear it in the General Assembly. One of them is the expression of one man, we hear a lot of it. I mean, you smile a little, you smile a lot. I don't know, but there's someone at my house who's making the final decision, so I'm at home trying to make it myself. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) So there's a final decision everywhere. I'm asking everyone, of course. But I mean, there are presidents at work at political parties, and I see there are presidents in our parties... Mr. President, I assume you'll listen to everyone when there's an argument, but I think you'll make the final decision. It's like that in all political parties, it can't be run any other way. In all communities, in all communities, in all communities, in all communities, there is one who makes the final, final decision. There's Mr. Buli here, the Prime Minister, and I think they'll confirm us. (EC PARTY) So when the Prime Minister and the ministers contradicted earlier in Turkey, I guess the last decision the Prime Minister made -- he shakes his head -- I think his decision is coming to life. (AK PARTI) It may be said: "Sir, there was a president before -- his powers were so extravagant -- he had a president we expected everything from there, you know, maybe he would veto hope or something. We all know that in the matter of the President and the Prime Minister, we all know that at the end of the day, even if the President had increased his powers at the end of the day, it was symbolic, so it was Mr. Prime Minister who made the final decision. Now, what I'm going to say from here is that in all systems, in all order, it's never, ever been called a one-man person who makes the final decision, so I think it's either that or not knowing life or politics; there's no other explanation. (AK PARTY) Now, I'm looking at Germany, Germany probably knows Merkel's name, and he's the only one. There's a president of a half presidency in France, but the prime minister is present, but I don't think he knows the prime minister. In the U.S., you know, the whole world knows about Trump. I mean, if there's a mechanism that's run as a result, then there's a president at the head of that mechanism. There's no way to do that, and it's one person, not a thousand people, not a hundred people, just one person. Now, what you're saying is that there's a very flashy, Jangent expression: the powered parliamentary system. Now, this is the parliamentary system. Now, when you say that the parliamentary system is a pre-approved parliamentary system, it means that once you admit that the parliamentary system that we were in earlier was a problem, it was a problem. In this parliamentary system, there was a lot of trouble running this country. So far, the AK PARTY has come in, won every election, won every election, and this parliamentary system has become operational in Turkey, so we need to see it. (AK PARTY) It didn't work until the AK PARTY came in; it was a one-on-one hangout, hang out, hang out; coups, coalitions, a system that didn't work, but it didn't always have the chance to find our President, a Recep Tayyip Erdogan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, what you're saying is: the powered parliamentary system. I've never seen you talk about it. So what does this reinforced parliamentary system bring in, and how do you get it? It's obvious what's going on with the coven. I guess you're looking at the polls, and we're looking at them, so that's the way it's gonna be if there's another election. How are you going to get it? Oh, let's say you create the environment of this imaginary thing of yours, its shape, its schematics, it's become a little bit clearer, so why don't you tell people, our nation, that we need a constitutional change? Why don't you tell me that this amendment has to go through 3/5 of this Parliament? If he doesn't get 400 votes, why don't you tell him it has to go to a referendum? So it's like there's going to be an election, you're going to win a million-to-one chance, and then the next day, there's a story in Turkey that's going to come. I really don't understand why you're trying to sell a dream like that. Anyway, you're looking at literature to see if there's any such thing, so I guess it's your invention. So I invite you to the facts of Turkish politics, I invite you to the facts of constitutional law, and I invite you not to live in a fantasy world because politics is a very serious business. [[A round of applause from the AK PARTY, Mr. President, they're after a dream.]] Now, of course, these are raw dreams, so it's really very raw. I'm a dreamer, and now I'm going to come to dreams, and I'm going to tell a story, but these are raw dreams. For dreams to come true, they have to be on the ground, they have to be in the legal system, they have to have a place in international legislation, so that they can find life. And I see, and I want to put it this way: well, there's always the words that start when we come to power, whereas people will see what you're going to do in the opposition, not when you're in power, but when you're in the opposition, the way you're in power can only come out. If you sell dreams, if you don't tell the truth, how can this be alive, so is that even possible? Now, another concept you love is the concept of custody. You love it. We know what custody is. There are other concepts you use with custody. Custody, appointment...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0082par0137	Now we're shooting.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0077par0138	(Keep going) Ah ah, we'll be right there. I don't answer so I don't mess with my people. You make such distinctions as custody, appointment and selection. Now, the word custody is being used in a completely inverse way. What do we understand about custody, what did we understand, what did we change? We've removed custody in Turkey, and I want you to understand what we've lifted. The Constitution and the laws, the rule of law, have authority over individuals and institutions. If these powers are excluded... we talked about the custody of two things in Turkey, the custody of the soldiers and the judiciary. I mean, what was it here? In fact, the military, the Chief of Staff, at that time, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, were using the power of the weapon as a force that was not given to them, they were doing politics. We saw the same thing in the judiciary. So how do you call the issue here -- it's about custody -- in a constitutional law -- how do you call it custody for people to use the powers they've been given? Is that what's going to happen? (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) The President uses his authority, you say. I mean, it doesn't make any sense. Custody has been destroyed in Turkey. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) It's the same for military bureaucracy, and it's the same for judicial bureaucracy. Our goal is to make sure that everyone in the legal order does what the Constitution and the law have given them. When our appointed ministers are talking... it's dedicated, it's chosen... it's really strange. That's what they say in an ego that's a little bit of a challenge. Now, here's the thing... you can't tell our ministers that we're here on this stand. The Constitution says under what circumstances will the ministers come here? Yeah, that's what ministers mean when, when they can come here. A minister has the rights of an MP, and a minister who says the same thing, says, from the moment he comes here with a constitutional authority given to him -- they've already sworn in here, their own judicial procedures are subject to special procedures -- and what a congressman can say is what a minister can say. The concept of the appointed issue in Turkey is not as you express it. So we're not talking about the appointment the President authorized. There's a legal mandate there, but we're talking about the practices of people who don't take their job from the law in other places. I'm running out of time. These are, of course, very neat, obsessive expressions of yours. And I don't think there's a statement, so those who support you can enjoy these, these arguments. So when you hear something like that, you get upset, you really get upset. Because look, if you can't find water anywhere, you can have teyemmum, so without water, you can take ablution with soil, but when you see water, abdest breaks down, that's the rule. If there's a crate somewhere, if there's a free election, you can't talk about dictatorship. On the other hand, you're going to say, let the nation decide, but on the other hand, you're going to say, "Let the nation decide." What kind of judgment is that? I mean, it's unbelievable. [[Noises]] So what's this? My dear friends, if you ask me, it's a job a party who wants to be in power won't do; it's an enemy of the state. You can't do this by hostileizing the institutions of the state. (EC PARTY) In your speeches here, the saddest is the talks you've made to devalue lawmakers and Parliament. As a result, whoever rules this country, the presidency of this country, the Parliament of this country, is more than anything. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) You can never be in an attitude that devalues that. Oh, there are also situations where people are being devalued. For example, on Teacher's Day - as a teacher, his parents are sad - we will look at the teacher, and we will care for whomever he votes. If he doesn't vote for us, we won't count him as a teacher. Artist... if he's a kiss-ass, he can't be an artist from a kiss-ass. I mean, if he's on our side, if he's on our side, if he's on your side, I don't know what happens anymore. I don't know what his name is. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] There are doctors. Doctors are doing a lot of service in this country these days. And your testimony about doctors is very interesting; they're doctors raised by the republic, but don't make it worth our while. Doctors raised by the republic because your business is down. My dear friends, we say that in this country, no matter what business, no matter what work, every citizen is precious to us, regardless of his vote. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, what I'm going to say is, this is what I said -- what I just said -- is that it's a state of opposition that dreams of power in a citizen. I mean, could these be power, could these be governments?... It's the opposition's attitude, what he's doing. Now, for once, you're looking at a very collage image, very collage. In fact, in collages, everyone maintains their originality, and with them coming together, there's a different image. But unfortunately, we don't see that kind of union, it seems like a mess, a mess. For example, in this mess, there was talk in the early -- I remember -- in the 2015 elections of the HDP to come to the centre. In fact, what did a Vice President of the CHP say? If one of our votes is for CHP, one of them is for HDP. There was such a trend, there was an effort. Let's do everything we can to send the AAK PARTY, but in the meantime, let's have the HDP Party of Turkey come to the centre. I see today that today's debates -- right now -- are debated about the HDPisation of CHP. We're seeing this right now, we're seeing this right now. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Now, I'm going to come to something I love very much: the Bullet Soldier. I have the President General to thank. The other night I opened the story of the soldier -- I read it when I was a child -- and I thought I'd read it again, so what kind of a fairy tale was the Bullet Soldier? But before that, Aliya Izetbegovic -- God rest her soul -- says that when I'm too narrow, I go to children, sometimes I talk to intellectuals, but intellectuals have a very neutral thing, and there's something hidden behind it. But when I go to the kids, especially the kids, they think very clearly about their country and they think fairly, but they think right. I'm neutral, I don't care about war, I'm above such things. I've seen many intellectuals say. They're always above or outside something. At times when children die, women are raped, they're always neutral, but when I ask the children, they're biased, they're from the country, they say, they're from the country. Now, my dear friends -- Mr. President, I hope you'll extend my time -- I'd like to tell you a story here: I love the lead soldier story. A boy in the Lead Soldier likes to play with lead soldiers. One of your soldiers doesn't have a leg. He always takes the one with the broken leg and says to him: "You are very brave, you have no legs, but you are the best soldier and you are very brave. He takes that soldier and puts him by the window one day, and the wind drops him down. There's a lot of rain that day. They take two bad boys' soldiers, put them in a boat from one piece of paper. In the boat, with the rain, it goes to the sewers, then to the sea, our little lead soldier. By the way, he's wanted at home. They can't find him. He catches a fisherman, brings him in, weird, but he brings him to the same neighborhood, his own neighborhood. And the cook of the house buys that fish and brings it home. They're looking at it, and they're saying, oh, they can't believe it, the lead soldier is there, hidden inside of it. Of course, they're so happy, they put it on the fireplace to dry a little bit. In the meantime, it's the soldier's greatest dream... a little long, but let's cut it short; they talk at night, there's a ballerina on paper, she loves it very much; her greatest dream is to be next to that ballerina. And then it turns out his dream came true, so he's got that paper ballerina with the lead soldier. But the paper ballerina suddenly falls again into the wind-burning fireplace and begins to burn. That's when the lead soldier jumps into that fire and tries to save the ballerina from the paper he loves. And when he does, his feet melt together. The boy who came in a little while later takes the military and the ballerina and leaves it on the mantelpiece so it never leaves. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, my dear friends, look, I don't think you know the meaning of the soldier you used to insult us, you don't even know the meaning of the stories.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0083par0157	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0077par0158	Mr. President, I'll wrap it up. In fairy tales, it means people who don't give up for what they believe, who care about their journey, and who are ready to burn for what they really love, lead soldier, for love.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0084par0161	You've been telling stories for 18 years.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0077par0162	I actually have some more notes, but I'll get it together. My dear friends, I see you're using the concepts of the law, you don't know, you're misusing it, your custody... You're misusing legal concepts. I was going to read it to the President General. You've expressed a lot of things here. I've looked at the definition of the dictionary, Mr. President, and I think it means something terrible, and I don't think you should pronounce them here, and I think you should apologize to this country. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) The concepts of this country's values, the zinhar, you don't even know them. You don't know the truth, I've proven it, you don't know the stories, you don't know the stories, you don't know the stories. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President... here you go. The last sentence, again from Mr. General President's speech, says Mr. President: "When we unite those who favour democracy in the chest -- there is a gap -- you will see that an authoritarian regime in the political history of the world has been transformed in democratic ways." I say: "Good morning, it's turned, it's turned. (AK PARTY) Since the arrival of the EC PARTY in Turkey, there has been a democratic regime, a growing democratic regime of day and day quality; custody has ended, bans have ended. Long live the Republic of Turkey. Thank you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One sentence, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0085par0172	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0077par0173	Of course, I wish our budget to all our people with good luck and blessings.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0086par0174	You didn't have to! I don't need a budget!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0077par0175	I'll say thank you. When we were serving in the House, we had doctors, doctors, friends, cops, executive officers, a very large task force -- and I want to thank everyone who brought us tea, cleaned it up, and everyone who worked it up. I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0087par0178	Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0088par0182	Mr. President, thank you. Now, as we were listening to Mr. Efkan Ala, we suddenly felt as if he was listening to an announcer in A News by mistake. [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] If you watch those bulletins, such as Efkan Ala, which only A News has edited, slanders, and insults, it is possible to perform on the bench. However, as Mr. Efkan Ala boasted about opening the universities, it was as if today's newspapers had come out to answer Efkan Ala.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0089par0186	Clown!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0088par0187	Over 200 open universities. One of the men you appointed, patted on the back of those universities, took care of their blinds, and, when we were criticized, said to the children of one of the AK PARTI, the MPP, the People of CHP, the PARTI, the millions of HDP parents, the sons of your parents, that I would be ashamed to repeat here. The reaction from the community, please... the people's Party has invented the "Google" Abdülhamit. When you say "Istanbania Convention," it bleeds a lot. When you say "Objections," an investigation has been launched against you. Efkan Ala says: "The People's People's Party can't get clean paper with a criminal record. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0090par0190	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0091par0191	For twelve days we have been insulted by you: an insult to the people, an insult to our values!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0088par0192	Let go of the clean paper, you can't get legality from the parents of the AK PARTY, who voted for you in the last election, first of all. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We saved the country from custody, you say. The answer to what you understand about custody and how you look at it is actually Miss Özlem, the next speaker, gave it to you. You're talking about custody, you're talking about military custody, you're saying you're fighting these custodys; the Republican People's Party has taken power from a person and given it to the people from the palace and fought with every form of custody.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0091par0195	On February 28th, for him...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0088par0196	But you, the one man above the judgment, the only man above the law...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0092par0198	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0088par0199	Mr. President, I would very much like to ask you, Mr. Group President, if you don't interrupt as you have shown your understanding...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0092par0200	It's the same, we're moving on, but we're running out of time.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0093par0201	He gave her two minutes. He gave me two more minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0088par0202	And you see the judgment as a custody institution. That's not a law-enforcement job. You call it custody of the Republican People's Party to the Constitutional Court.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0094par0203	367... 367.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0088par0204	But the main guardianship is to make the courts of London authority, not Turkish courts, if there is a conflict between those who finance the five-alarm gang you've given the giant projects to and the state of the Republic of Turkey. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, Mr. President, of course we've heard incredible things on this council bench. We signed with the European Union, he says. He must have meant the signature of the Inönul (in 1963).
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0095par0208	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0088par0209	I will, sir. But everyone knows that the European Union signed off on it. All of Turkey's current prime ministers have walked the road here, good and bad, but throwing bridges with the European Union has been given to your prime ministers, to your president. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now he can't even be a minister. The expression is... don't look us in the eye and say that. Of course he can't even be a minister. There was a decision. The Republican People's Party came here in the 22nd term, with two parties. The president of one of these parties was unable to become a member of parliament because there was a constitutional obstacle, and it was decided on. The Republican People's Party first changed the Constitution with the Justice and Development Party, removing that constitutional obstacle.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0096par0214	Wait a minute... Complete, please, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0088par0217	Then, along with the AK PARTI's members, he resigned his elected MP in Siirt, and became the chairman of your party, then the Prime Minister, in that interim election, according to the Constitution. You're saying this to criticize the Republican People's Party, rather than at least praise the democratic maturity of the Republican People's Party and its contribution to democracy. When it comes to this poem, Mr. Efkan Ala has branded Turkey's politics as a trilogy of the Ziirts. Because of a poem that was recited in the Siirt square, you have been thrown to a point where political ban has been imposed as MP after the resignation of lawmakers in Siirt, and in the final elections, the mayor of the people of Siirt will be elected trustee.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0096par0219	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0088par0220	Finally, yesterday, Mr. Erdogan said the opposition in Turkey is the fifth arm activity. If you look back before you applaud the words of the fifth arm movement, the 1937 Madrid siege, dictator Franco says: "We have surrounded Madrid from four branches, the fifth arm is working inside." He says, "By telling spies, traitors and local collaborators." When a country's President comes out and tells the country's opposition, there's only one word that can be corrected if he's heard from Franco, the one he's used, when he's given the answer. I'll take it back, I'll take it back, I'll take it back, you can have the didictator.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0097par0223	You sought help from Biden.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0098par0224	Dear Oluç...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0099par0225	Mr. President, we wanted to.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0098par0226	I'll take my turn...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0100par0227	Mr. President, Mr. Free has given us this right by taunting us even though he has taken the liberty of picking on us. I mean, I don't want to...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0098par0228	Just a second... in the order that I'm going to give you...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0101par0229	Mr. President, we want a word here.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0098par0230	It's beautiful, Mr. Turkkan. There's a line in front of me. I'm going according to it. I see it here. So, when you ask us to, we're supposed to put it right in front of them all?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0101par0231	You need to get the order right, that's what we want.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0098par0232	Okay, we're going in line. Mr. Oluç was in line, Mr. Oluç said it could be Mr. Turan. You asked for the last word, last one. Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0102par0234	Sir, I want to talk to you about teasing. If you'd appreciate it, I'd like to speak from the stand, if you'd appreciate it.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0098par0235	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0102par0239	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, of course I salute you, Mr. Presidents, especially. We've reached the end of 15 days of budget talks. First of all, I sincerely congratulate the AK PARTY Group and the MHP Group on the fact that Mr. Presidents have witnessed these discussions, but we've had to listen to much more, much heavier, much more patient every day. But this bench has a way of doing it. He doesn't respect us when we're just talking about the VP, he doesn't respect the House; every day he yells, we know that, but at least you have Mr. President General with you, you don't scream. The junkman doesn't scream, the judge doesn't scream. Why are you shouting? Sir, Mr. Efkan Ala gave a speech as if reminding him of A News. I believe that's the first joke of Free Bey. What kind of joke is that? How do I answer that? So I'm going to count 10 TV channels and say, "You're like a trumpet." It doesn't mean anything, it's wrong. (CARP PARTY APPLAUSE, CHP LINES) That's not language. The word is civilization. Style is the identity of man himself. Mr. President, Mr. President, despite your 10 choices, why can't he be in power despite 90 years of history? If you say so, the answer is with you. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) People don't say yes to that, people don't say yes to that approach. Look, Mr. Deputy President of the Group has just referred to Mr. President in your presence -- I would expect you to warn him, cut him off, it would not suit us. Say, I would expect this -- with a dictator's emphasis on Mr. President. He gave a speech yesterday. But we're not surprised, we're used to it because whether you speak or don't speak, whether you slander or not, this nation has voted 25 percent for you for 30 years or 50 years.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0103par0244	Mr. Turan, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0102par0245	He didn't do 26, he won't do it. You called Menderese the didictator, you said Özal. If you didn't call Erdogan, we'd be sorry, you said. You're not gonna get her into college wearing a scarf, we're dictators. You're not gonna put a man to work with his beard, we're dictators. You're going on vacation on July 15th, you're going to have coffee, we're dictators. You will invent 367, destroy democracy; we are dictators. You'll be the head of February 28th, we're dictators. Look, you, sacrifice to this dictator, be sacrificed. Dear friends, everyone knows very well who is the dictator and who is not the dictator. With that understanding, you will continue to be Turkey's most stable party, not to increase the game, and in the same way, to be at the same rate for 50 years and 100 years. Shut down the whole party, all of you quit, you'll get 25% anyway. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Everyone knows in what circumstances Gazi Mustafa Kemal is the leader of the party, but under what circumstances did you become President of the party, again, this nation knows. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] One minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0104par0251	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0105par0252	Come on, you lead. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0106par0254	I hope our budget is good. I think we have the right to a more respectable opposition, and so does this country. This country needs the opposition, not to attack, not to insult, not to congratulate its country's president, 15 times in the election, but to congratulate Biden, despite the unconfirmed consequences, but to congratulate the President who was elected after his country's election. This country needs to know to say yes to the elected, not to the one who calls here, to the one who respects the House, to the one who is chosen until the election. There's economic problems, there's trouble, the crown, but the captain is strong, and you're not going to solve it, and it's us again. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) That's all the trouble, but if you still don't have more votes in the polls, look in a mirror once, take a look at your style. You yelled 15 days, we talked for two minutes. I congratulate the AK PARTY again on your common sense. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0107par0259	Thank you. Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0108par0263	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, now on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Rich has spoken. Here's your problem, first of all: we're discussing the presidential government system, we're discussing it. You're taking this discussion as an insult because we're having an argument about political debate, perhaps political science, or maybe everyday politics. Well, there can't really be an assessment that far from intellectualism; first of all, I'll tell you that. Why would having such an argument make it disreputable? That's how you look at it, so that's the problem. We're discussing politics. Secondly, while discussing the presidential government system, we're expressing a few issues that have nothing to do with discrediting. We say you've united the separation of forces in one person -- judgment, law, conduct. Well, you've eliminated the separation of forces, and we're saying it's one of the most fundamental issues of democracy, and we're discussing it. We're discussing the balance, the control mechanisms you've turned upside down, you've rendered them inoperable. We're arguing that you've destroyed the rule of law. Now, these, the things we're discussing, the things that have to do with everyday politics, it's not about discrediting. If you're doing all this and you're defending it, then you're standing in a place that's really unreputed, let's identify it. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Now, what is the simplest definition of custody? It's the simplest expression of not knowing and chewing the will of the people. You've appointed trustees to 54 of our municipalities, the municipality elected by the people; you've violated election justice, election law, chest law, and we've eliminated custody. You did the biggest custody, and you're still defending it.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0109par0270	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0108par0271	. Look, I'm telling you, you've eliminated election law, chest law. I'm charging you with something so important, you never blush, you don't bother. You're the focus of custody, you're the new focus of custody; it's obvious. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Thirdly, look -- and you're saying -- that your democracy will never be erased, it's written in history and in the memory and conscience of the Kurdish people, and it'll never be forgotten, and I'll tell you that, I'll tell you that, don't say a word about it. Now, it's like this presidential government system is such a system that it's all over the world, there's no other system, and we're discussing it, so there's no such thing.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0110par0276	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0108par0277	I'm picking it up, sir. That's what you're doing, and you're saying it's a great thing, and what you call the presidential government system, it doesn't exist anywhere in the world in this way. Look, there's the presidential system, there's the presidential system, there's the parliamentary system; it's all based on the rule of law and democracy. You destroyed it, we're discussing it. Otherwise, we're not discussing anything else in the presidential government system. Now, one person makes all the decisions, not the final decisions, Miss Özlem, one person makes all the decisions. So he makes the decisions in the economy, like in the interest-inflation relationship, he hits the economy against the wall, he makes the decisions in health, he makes the decisions in tourism, he makes the music, he makes the art. Does this have anything to do with a democratic presidential system or the presidential system? Obviously autocracy, nothing more, obviously autocracy. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0111par0282	Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0112par0284	Mr. President, I'd like to say a few words very briefly, not to create too many polemics, but also because it's the order of our fellow lawmakers to speak. First, speaking of February 28th, Mr. Efkan Ala, I waited for the Justice and Development Party to rise up and cheer on Coral Akşener. You didn't do it, you did it, you did it. I have a President-General who single-handedly resists the coupgers at a time when even an important part of them closes their doors and escapes in. I've waited for you to clap, you didn't do it, thank you. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Mr. Özlem is rich. What is this reinforced parliamentary system? He said, "I want to tell you in a few words." The reinforced parliamentary system is a system where the one man in the country has not been accepted in every institution of the state without being called "ama" or "a," where the MPs ask the ministers to account without conducting it, the reinforced parliamentary system. The government's resources are not distributed to the selected five-alarm gang, but to 83 million, which is a strengthened parliamentary system. Augmented parliamentary system is the name of a system where the court decisions are made by independent judges, where the judge does not extend his eyes and ears to the palace. In the reinforced parliamentary system, ministers resign, unforgivable; resign; there is no such thing as forgiveness; there is no strengthened parliamentary system. Local courts comply with the Constitutional Court rulings in the reinforced parliamentary system. This is not the only man system you call the presidential government system. You can't refer to the reinforced parliamentary system as a system where the palace is full and the citizen is hungry; it's not like this system. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0113par0290	Mr. Turkkan, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0112par0291	The palace is full, the citizens are hungry; this system is such a system, the reinforced parliamentary system is not that kind of system. It's not a system that gives bread to a citizen and says, "That's enough." Look, guys, the budget's over today. You know, we only have one thing on our mind. We've talked for hours and days, and there's only one thing left: dry bread. This budget is called the bread budget, my friends. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0114par0295	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0115par0296	Dear Private...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0114par0297	In the speech made by Mr. Bulent Turan, I had an open taunt, and I have the right to answer...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0116par0298	I just told him not to yell, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0115par0299	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0114par0303	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let's first clarify one thing, a matter of congratulations to Biden. Your president isn't here, so I won't be able to make an example of you because the person sitting next to you isn't following you. Mr. Erdogan said, "Will you congratulate me on the congratulations of Biden?" He said, "I won't call until I'm sure." Four days after he said that, the election was finalized just last week, Bulent Turan; first write it down. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Secondly, a President of the Political Party will call the main opposition party, the opposition parties the Fifth Column activity, you will have no problem with that, you will be cut off as the apostle of democracy who used this expression and why, and you will return and do not wear down the office of the President, the office of the President is the top of the state, don't devalue it. The person who came to the office of the President is sworn by the Article 103, and at the end of this oath, I will work with all my power to carry out my duty with neutrality, and honor in the presence of the People of the Turkish Republic. He who utters this word swears neutrality on honor and honor, and then insults it five times a day, not by running away from live broadcasts, but by reading from the prompter, prepared texts; and if he defames it, it is he who devalues the office. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Well, you have to avoid the presidency, right? The blame for insulting the president, the head of state, the party, non-party, non-pollemic, non-indulging president, was staged at TCK 299 to protect the head of the state.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0117par0309	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0114par0310	As the constitution changed, we begged, and we said: "Change 299, lift up 299, change the laws of harmony." This is no old armor for the party president. Instead of lifting it, he chose to hide behind it, to take it into his hand as a weapon; the result is: 9.556 people were convicted for defaming the president -- who sued 27,717 people. This number is only 71 in Solomon Demirel, and 82 in Ahmet Necdet Sezer, and 233 in Abdullah Gül. And of the 27 thousand, 903 were charged with defamation of the President, Mr. Bululi Yıldırım, 264 were under 14 years of age; 12 and 13 years of age were charged with defamation.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0117par0312	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0114par0313	Now, if you're referring to the disgrace of the state's head to the loud speech of the Republican People's Party orator, there's another structural problem here, but if I answer in your tone, Mr. Turan: Yes, when you're wronged, when a troll's mind is slandered, when a giant party follows you, when you're lynched from the videos that have been cut off, you go screaming at us when we're attacked, but at the end of the 18 years, you're going to the account, you're going to yell, you're going to answer, you're going to shout, you're going to answer, you're going to answer, you're going to answer, you're going, you're going to shout, you're going to answer, you're going, you're going to shout, you're going to shout, you're going to answer, you're going, you're going to answer, you're going, you're going, you're going to answer, you're going to answer, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going to yell, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going to
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0118par0315	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0119par0316	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0120par0317	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0119par0318	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, according to 60, I'd like to answer in a minute, so there's no polemics, no time for other speakers.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0120par0319	Sure, no, because, my friends, look, all the Group Vice Presidents are here.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0119par0320	Well, I wouldn't expect that answer to my kind attempt, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0120par0321	There are five Deputy Group Presidents in the AK PARTY, not if the Deputy Group Presidents of each party take a separate word from each party and evaluate the words of the speakers, we're only doing this in the context of bullying. Come in and let's finish this, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0119par0325	Well, I'd like to say this, Mr. President, to make sure that no more taunting is allowed.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0120par0326	Yes, please be careful.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0119par0327	This nation appreciated and evaluated the system change, and this nation allowed the transition to the presidential system as predicted by the Cumhur Alliance. That's behind us. At this time, Mr. President, if it were, if it were, the President was biased, not disputing. Our president -- in his vow of disparity -- everybody appreciates that 83 million people are taking undisputed steps to benefit from services equal to those of the district, the central government. Mr. President is the president of our political party, just as Gazi Mustafa Kemal was in the olden years, as was the Inönu. He has both the presidency and the partying. So if you try to read today's mind with the old system, you'll end up in a dead end. So, if our friends so much as want to recommend the old system in front of our nation, the people will say yes, but know that no democratic right will ever go back. There is no system in the world where democratic rights are taken and given back. Turkey has put its period of power far behind coalitions, fights, ministers' negotiations, proxy transfers.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0120par0328	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0121par0329	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0119par0330	I didn't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0121par0331	No, no, I don't want to talk about bullying, we don't have a say in the matter. Mr. Abdulatif Sener gave his speech, and then Mr. Efkan Ala said on the stand that Mr. Abdulatif Sener had the right to answer both by twisting the words of Mr. Abdulatif Sener, and by taunting the person of Abdulatif Sener, according to the Civil Charter 69...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0122par0333	It didn't happen, he didn't even talk, he didn't even mention his name.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0121par0334	Friends, allow the office to decide.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0123par0335	Friends, let Mr. Free express himself.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0121par0336	I'll pass on my request. Who gives you the data to Mr. Abdulatif Sener? Who puts this data in your hands, like...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0124par0337	What's that got to do with anything? What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0121par0338	...to humiliate a preacher in front of the voters. If you'll excuse me, he'd like an answer on behalf of himself.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0125par0339	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to explain this.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0126par0340	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0125par0341	Mr. President, it's me...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0127par0342	What's he saying about my request?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0126par0343	Okay, wait a minute, hold on, demand, but we'll consider the request.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0127par0344	No, but then...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0126par0345	You're demanding it. I'd like to take a look at the transcripts, because I followed them.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0128par0346	He didn't say, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0127par0347	Mr. President, is this a formal debate, and Mr. Turan is using testimony?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0126par0348	Let's see what he has to say, before he says it.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0129par0349	Mr. President, there's no reason for Free Bey to be nervous.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0127par0350	I'm not nervous.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0129par0351	You can promise as many people as you want, to Abdulatif Bey, and to our other friends. But I'd like to say that Usul is the key criteria for running this House. If you, on behalf of the group, return to the individuals after the answers, for the record...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0130par0352	Anyway, I'll make that assessment.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0129par0353	...and the friends mentioned in Efkan will ask for a word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0131par0354	No, Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0130par0355	Mr. Special, I'll take a look at the report, and I'll review it in this session.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0131par0356	Mr. President, now, I'm so sorry. You've managed it many times, many times, and the one who's being bullied has two minutes -- you're not leaving it, it's true -- but...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0132par0357	He didn't.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0131par0358	...now that the PARTI Group's talks have begun and -- there are people watching television -- when you put Abdulatif Bey's say-over an hour later and put behind that hot debate, there will be a loss of rights here.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0132par0359	No, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0131par0360	I beg you, let him speak for two minutes, and we'll be done with this part.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0133par0361	Mr. Special, look, you know I'm comfortable with this, I'm tolerant, but I've followed the speakers' speeches, and I don't recall any name-calling, as you call it.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0131par0362	No, not by name.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0133par0363	I'll look for it.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0131par0364	Mr. President, I'm sorry, let me remind you that he made a phrase, "Where from?" He said, "I'm going to ask you, sir, who came here and started talking about where from?"
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0133par0366	Here you go, Mr. Sener.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0134par0368	Mr. President, you were supposed to ask for the transcripts.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0135par0369	We didn't even answer so you wouldn't get any taller, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0133par0370	Mr. Sener, please don't give me any more trouble.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0136par0373	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the Justice and Development Party spokesman, said he used the World Bank data when he was talking about the revenue distribution, and according to these data, the income distribution in the painting I showed was unconfirmed. In fact, the World Bank data is data that we know we can count on, but what I'm showing here is data from the United Nations' human development report. As realistic and accurate as you find World Bank data, the data in the United Nations human development report is equally accurate. However, what part of the population do you compare, or do you get income before or after taxes, so it is possible to do different graphics. The graph I'm showing is clear and clear. It showed how much of the income in this country, in total, is taken by half of the population, 50 percent of the population in this country. This is half the income that half the population in this country receives, and that's half the income that 1 percent of the population in this country receives. This is in the United Nations Human Development Report. There's nothing wrong with that. This is a lot of talk about the IMF, and let me put it this way: Look, the 18th Stand-by Agreement with the IMF was held in February 2002, and $16 billion was taken from the IMF. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The government of Erdogan took a stand-by deal in 2005 and received $6.1 billion from there. Prior to Erdogan's government, the Ecevit-run stand-by agreement lasted as short as eight months in the former government. Erdogan therefore spent a large portion of the $16.5 billion set up in the stand-by agreement by the previous Ecevit government.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0137par0377	What did Erdogan do to you?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0136par0378	Erdogan also spent the money in the 2005 Stand-by Agreement. So we paid the last installment of the previous government. It's not right to say that Erdogan paid the last installment of the government's spending money, the IMF money.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0138par0380	You will say Mr. Erdogan, Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0139par0381	Mr. Rich...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0140par0384	Mr. President, I, of course, don't want to take credit for my long conversation, but I want to tell Mr. Saruhan Oluç, that I'm stuck with this intellectual level thing, because that's exactly what I said in my speech, and I said, "I'm inviting you to an intellectual level." Look, to criticize a system... this Parliament has criticised the parliamentary system for many years, and that's what you mean when you say in the disseminated parliamentary system. You can criticize anything about the presidential government system, but I say no one has the right to call it a dictator. Critics yes, language no. The whole point here is that this has nothing to do with intellectualism, we're talking about a level of criticism. And in doing so, what has parliament done to be so humiliated that the state's institutions, the nation's, especially the institution's not being devalued in this sense, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is being so humiliated? So, what I'm saying here is that there are institutions that need to be protected, that the state is more important than us, and that we need to stay on a certain level when we do these reviews, and that's how I want to be understood. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit03spe0139par0387	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0139par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. The commission is in place.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0141par0008	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0139par0009	I'll make a brief promise to Mr. Danış Beştaş, for the record.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0141par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. I just made a promise for the record. Speaking on behalf of the ruling party group, Mr. Efkan Ala used a phrase that caught my attention. I've spotted it twice, gentlemen... I've seen it twice, I haven't followed it. Really, this is unacceptable. I've looked at our last issue, we're 101 women's deputies here; two of our friends have been elected mayor. So here's an approach that completely ignores women... so I'm saying on behalf of all women that they may not accept, but... at least they can call the MPs, but this is another way of ignoring men's language, men's approach and women. I think Mr. Efkan Ala...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0139par0012	That's not what he meant.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0141par0013	You know, there's no meaning, there's no argument, but it's also a reflection of a culture, a male dominant culture. I hope he does. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0139par0015	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0142par0016	That's not what he meant.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0139par0017	Now, the first word on behalf of the OK PARTY Group belongs to Ankara MP Durmiş Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0143par0021	Mr. President, my esteemed deputies and my esteemed citizens who listen to us on television, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of the well-placed PARTI Group to share the general budget of 2021, and in this context our view of the overall economic progress of our country. I'm supposed to use the time assigned to me financially, but I can't pass on some of the issues that have been raised in the previous meetings, even though I've wasted my time. My dear AK PARTY friends, my fellow lawmakers, I say this for justice. When you came to power in 2002, you found an agreement with the IMF. Then, of your own volition, in 2005, you made a 2nd agreement. The total resource used to add up to $28 billion is $28 billion. Only four billion of it used the three-way coalition before you, and you used all the rest of it. Doesn't justice mean it's like that? Why don't you say it like that, and you've been trying to say the same unreal things for 18 years? [[A round of applause from the good parties]] When you came to power, you had three options: either this stand-by agreement is against the interests of my country. To say, tear it up and throw it away, or to look in it and throw it in the trash. These are not the things I accept, to say, "Taste" or to apply it as it is. You didn't touch the decimal, you applied it without touching the point. Please be right. If we're going to travel as a country, we're not going anywhere without telling the truth. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Second: Again, the speaker mentioned a balance sheet of Turkey. So if we think of Turkey's entire existence as a balance sheet, he counted its assets. What did he count? He counted divided roads, counted airports, counted tunnels, counted highways, counted bridges, counted, counted, counted. But the balance sheet also has a passive. Let's see what's in front of this asset. Please tell me, say, "Yes, we've done this road, this bridge, this hospital, this tunnel, everything, but in return we've used this much resources. I'll tell you the source you used. So far, you've collected $2.5 trillion in taxes. In the 1930s, when the needle he imported to sew up the tear was imported to bury the body, you used 70 billion dollars to sell the factories he built, without borrowing a penny from the outside, by growing 8 percent. On top of that, there's a public plus a special total of $450-480 billion in debt. Please tell me that. What we want from you as opposition is that we see the road, we see the bridge, you do these things, but how much did you do it for? Did you use our resources effectively or correctly? This balance sheet doesn't hold up its activator. We have a lot of obligations on the side, because you've changed the Public Contraction Act 191 times, and you've made me do it for a hundred cents on the dollar. Please tell us this, it's the right thing to do. I'm picking up where I left off, I've had almost five minutes of my time. Members of parliament, a century ago, under the roof of this great assembly, founded by the great sacrifice of our beloved nation, we would have come close to the second century of our nation's sovereignty, and the heart would have wanted to talk about beautiful things, and the right to budget, one of the most fundamental conditions of our nation's sovereignty, was no longer just a concept on paper in our country. The budget, which means that the legislature has a say in the expenditures to be made by the executive body and the taxes to be collected in return, is a concept that will be seen as one of the most sacred values of democracies that European nations have fought blood to achieve over the centuries. We unfortunately did not appreciate this concept, and today our Parliament has lost its budgetary rights, even if not legally. If this right had been protected, we could have announced the voice of nearly half the people we represent as opposition parties here, seen our criticism being taken into account, and asked for the account of where and how our people's money was spent, but at the point we came here, unfortunately, that was not possible. Let alone that Parliament has a say in the budget, the current government, unfortunately, no longer has the slightest intention of conforming to the conditions for the production of the budget. According to Article 162 of the Constitution, the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal, which should be submitted to Parliament on October 17th, was not the first time in the history of the Republic, although our Vice President claimed otherwise. The tradition of the budget being presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey after it was announced by the minister at a press conference has not been followed this year. Members of the Plan and Budget Commission, including myself, received the offer only on October 21st, when the talks would begin. The budget proposal was distributed five or ten minutes before the start of the talks, which was an integral part of the budget offer, and even before that, the brochure "General Economic Goals and Investments." I wish the violation of budgetary rights was limited to these few days delays in offering the law proposal. This year's budget process has shown that parliament's will has been completely ignored and that nothing is expected from lawmakers except to approve the budget put before them. As it has now become a reality, the budget budget system, which is based on performance, which was brought to budget in the early 1970s, with the amendment to Law 5018, which we can call the constitution of the budget, has been restored by a bag of legislation, which has not been implemented at all. The management claims otherwise, but the functional classification that allows more transparency has been removed. In fact, we'll see more clearly in the 2022 budget, but what is the wisdom is that these amendments to the budget proposal presented to parliament just a few days later in the official newspaper, published on October 16th, were considered, and the government's budget proposal was laid out on schedule, as required by the new version of the law. This is clear evidence that in the budget process, parliament is considered only one consenting authority. Another concrete evidence that parliament's budget rights have been revoked by the current power is that, as was last year, in 2020, the government did not see the need to bring additional budgets to parliament, even though it exceeded the budgetary limits. Dear lawmakers, one of the biggest damage this new regime has done to our country in almost every area for the last two and a half years, especially the economy, is to the country's resources that I have made, in the budget process, where the money of the nation has been spent, and how it has been spent, is that it has not been able to allow common intelligence and consultation, which has been called the government system of the presidency. Don't we all see that through life? Isn't it obvious that the already troubled economy of Turkey, along with the new government system you've brought in, has been much worse in the last two and a half years? Isn't it clear how the value of our Turkish lira melted, how the budget deficit and public debt increased rapidly, the sizes where unemployment reached, the situation in which our top institutions, particularly the Central Bank, have been reduced, and the economic-run institutional collapse, in general, is not in the open square? Do you really believe that this evil course could be stopped by the recent resignation of the Treasury Minister, who had nothing to fill that office other than being related to the President, and the name of a party at the head of the Central Bank, which should be independent? However, even though this assessment is correct, the problem we face is not a problem of individuals or individuals, it is a system problem. This bad course can be stopped, not by replacing a few ministers and senior bureaucrats, or by saying some hollow reforms, or by sending some warm messages to Western countries that have been referred to as enemies to our people until yesterday, but by transitioning to a strengthened parliamentary system, by implementing the principle of separation of powers in the administration. Each decision you make may extend the lives of your power a little longer, but it will cause our country to suffer more, our people to become poorer. It may be believed that the interests and welfare of individuals and families are guaranteed in the short and middle term because of their closeness to those in power, but it is inevitable that these people will be affected in the long term by the loss of social well-being and the negativeness that this will cause. In a poorer and more corrupt land, none of us will be safer; our children and grandchildren will not have better education, will not find better jobs, will not live among happier and more civilized people. The burden of generations to come will be really heavy. They're going to collect lost central bank reserves, the supply of supplies, reduce external debt, collect unemployment insurance funds, convert public currency debt into Turkish currency, pay unrefunded bank loans and reduce inflation. What a burden. It will be increasingly difficult to maintain property rights in the regime, which lacks the rule of law and is increasingly authoritarian. If this trend is not stopped, there is no guarantee that today's fortunes can be protected tomorrow, even if they are made legitimately. Because history has shown us many times that in countries where trust in justice has been lost and prosperity has been permanently reduced, there can be serious political instability and even major social breakdowns. As citizens of the Republic of Turkey, in order for us to look forward to the future and build a beautiful future together, we must first form an understanding floor that includes not only half of society, but as wide as possible, and shape our governance system according to this agreement. That can only be possible by switching to the reinforced parliamentary system. There's been a lot of discussion about this, but that's what we believe. Honourable lawmakers, I think it would be appropriate to summarize the economic performance of the last two and a half years, when the presidential government system has been implemented to emphasize the necessity of transition to the reinforced parliamentary system, which we see vital to the future of our country. Since the new government system, which the Cumhur Alliance considers worthy of our country, has been in effect, over 40 per cent of the overall inflation carried out since July 2018. However, this data belongs to Turkey's Statistical Agency, whose credibility has been severely injured recently. The loss of our people's buying power is far beyond that. As a matter of fact, the citizen on the street believes that inflation is much higher than it is explained, and therefore keeps its savings under more and more foreign currency. In recent times, despite all that's happened, our citizens, the natives, are still receiving foreign currency, and the amount of foreign currency protection accounts is increasing. It is not possible to blame our citizens for this, because in the last two and a half years of the new government system, the value of US dollars against Turkish lira has increased by about 75 per cent. Under the new government system, which he claims will bring a new age to the country, the value of Turkish lira has nearly half the price. I ask you, "Is that it? The decline of Turkish lira is only due to the acceptance of Mr. Collarak's resignation and the fall of interest inflation. It has been temporarily halted, with the prospect of abandoning it and allowing it to increase interest in the Central Bank. Of course, it is positive that there are signs of a return to rationalisation by giving up the crazy policies that were implemented during the Ministry of Collarak, which I will address some of them in a moment. This may be worth Turkish lira for a while, but the big problem is it can't cure the lack of trust. Trust in the economy can only be established by changing a system, by establishing an institutional structure based on the rule of being a part of it, which is to be given the proper job in economic management as an essential part of it. Other than that, everything that's done by power is just about buying time, and it's going to make the problems in the economy grow more radical, and it's going to become constant. And when we look at the public finance performance of the last two and a half years under the presidential government system, I'm afraid we don't see a very clear, bright picture. During the time that the treasure was run as a portfolio management company, the debt supply of the Republic of Turkey's state has nearly doubled and approached 2 trillion TL. Instead of a long-term debt supporting financial stability, he was moved to a short-term debt. More gravely, in 2012, the foreign currency and gold-generated debt's share in the domestic debt stock increased rapidly to 25 percent. That means that your government, which claims to be domestic and national, has, for some reason, made it far more sensitive to public debt actions by choosing to borrow from foreign currency rather than its own money. Because there's inflation in the country, it can't be controlled. I'd like to ask you again, is that it? By the way, I can't help but say that a country that doesn't trust its national money is a regional financial center where a lot of contracts are invested in foreign currency and the economy is earmarked and the discrepancies are transferred to the courts of foreign countries? I mean, can Istanbul become a financial center? Istanbul's construction centre is, unfortunately, not the Istanbul Financial Centre. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] I'm sorry to say that the current government is economically turning our country back into the 1990s. The budget deficit, which was observed around 21% of the illegitimate domestic body before 2018, reaches 5 percent today and a rapid increase in the interest load is the clearest indicator. The interest payments, which were $74 billion in 2018, are expected to be $137 billion in 2020. The 2021 budget forecast is 179-180 billion TL. In short, the sign of the coming point is chronic double open, high inflation, high interest, high public debt, worthless TL. The spokesman for the EC PARTY showed some graphics here. Behind those graphs is the World Bank's authority, correct. But if he reads that graph, if he reads it at an international symposium, they'll either take him out of the meeting or those who listen to him leave the room. You have to tell me where you got your start and what's in the middle. Go, then, get a graph starting from 1900, or 2. Get a graphic from the Mahmoud era, a different picture comes out. What's important is where he came from during your time. From 2002 to 2012, why don't you tell us about the loss of 250 billion dollars in revenues after 2013? That graph says that, too. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] Our interest payments in the new government system under Mr. President's administration, which has expressed its opposition to interest at every turn, have nearly doubled in two years, and the government itself expects it to increase. To make it concrete with a comparison, the amount put in the budget for support for our farmer in 2021 is 180 billion euros, almost 6 times that, and, of course, it envisions a budget deficit of 245 billion, depending on that. One of the clearest indicators of public finance worsening has, of course, recently, been the recent attempt to finance budget deficits with the Central Bank's resources. The government has suffered so much in budget financing that it wasn't enough to transfer the Bank's profits to the Treasury last year, it seized the balance sheet and the balance sheet. He took the profits according to the law, and he shouldn't have taken the spare accent, but he did, and I'm surprised that you're not able to get the amount that didn't happen in the evaluation account, and how did you connect it to the profit loss account, and then you took it from there? This is something that really needs to be questioned. There is, indeed, a crime behind this. How was the evaluation account combined with active profit damage, and how did you get it? It's not something that any mind would accept, but you've made it happen, I'm afraid. One of the main reasons why budget deficits, therefore debt burdens, and thus interest payments are increasing so quickly is that large-scale public investments are made by the construction-business or public-private cooperation methods, and in this context, guarantee payments to contractors that will last for decades in exchange. According to the government's budget law proposal, the burden of these payments will be over 100 billion euros per year. I'd like to ask you again: "Is that what this is? Due to the guarantee payments of these projects that Mr. President has told the public about, our Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Transport institutions have become unable to allocate funds to new investments. Each of these guarantees, given by the state, is a debt on the back of future generations, and the amount of it is not fully known. Those who are lucky enough to find work through years of mismanagement, while some of our young economies, who are unable to create a qualified labour force and employment, are struggling to reduce the burden of your power on their backs by paying taxes. Let's see where the new government system, which is supposed to dominate our economy, has brought unemployment in the last two and a half years. If you look at the official rates, unemployment has been reduced to 12.7 per cent by September 2020, but workers, jobs, and actual employees have been reduced. The large-defined number of unemployed has increased by 2.3 million, making 10.2 million. Why has unemployment increased so little, even though workable populations are over 2 million? The answer points to a really sad picture because hundreds of thousands of young people have stopped looking for work because they have lost hope of finding a job and are therefore not considered in unemployment statistics. However, the actual unemployment rate in our country has reached 30 per cent, according to some reliable estimates. When we look at economic growth, we see that from the third quarter of 2018, where the new government system was implemented, the economy of Turkey has virtually never grown, and in some cases, the US dollar, which allows international comparison, is seriously shrinking. Our income per person has been reduced to 10,500 US dollars in 2017, and today it has dropped to $8,500. In short, our citizen has become about 20 percent poor in the last three years, according to other citizens of the country, due to poor governance. In our opinion, the presidential government system is responsible for this in the first degree, and the Republic Alliance, its enforcer, is responsible for this in the second degree. As long as this administration system and this ruling alliance continue, Turkey is doomed to poverty. Unfortunately, our hopes of getting out of the mid-income trap, which, in 2013, was strengthened by 950 billion dollars per person's income over 12,000 dollars per person, have been destroyed as of today. So what I want to focus on here -- and my time is going fast -- is that eight quarters of constant capital investments in Turkey's economy were negative by the third quarter of 2020, but suddenly in the third quarter of 2020, fixed capital investments went to plus. If you look at the reason for this, it's a substructure of the gold, which was imported in 2020, at $22 billion, in fixed capital accounts. We may be making a mistake here. I turned to the Minister of the Treasury and Finance when the budget was being discussed, and I said, "Mr. Secretary, tell TÜİK to explain this to the public in detail, what's in it, where's the gold in it? We called it a gold fixed capital investment, but so far no one has made a statement, and we're still waiting, so please explain this. It's a pity that the economic picture in our country has gone so badly in such a short period of time, not just because of the wrong policies and the ineptness of enforcers. There are practices in this period that are either conscious or unconscious, which are both criminal, as well as in its content, and have caused major damage to our economy as well as its consequences. The first, and certainly the most critical, is that from 2019, the Central Bank was sold and sold in a covert amount of foreign currency reserves, and the Bank's net reserves were reduced by some calculations to up to minus 50 billion dollars. More importantly, it is not possible for a Central Bank to consume the currency reserves needed to maintain the value of the country's national money and, in the event of a balance of payments, to maintain the national economy's vital functions, to become a foreign currency debt, and to become a net exchange debt, not to be satisfied with it, not to be able to explain with reason and reason in a country such as Turkey. To be honest, it's no different than putting all the weapons in a cage full of wild predators and taking off all the armor. If it's not an irrational product of ignorance, then in my case, I can't even say it, so why don't you name it, what kind of business is it, please name it. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Honestly, I still can't believe this is happening as a person who's worked for me at the Central Bank for 35 years and who's been president of this institution, or rather, I don't want to believe it. However, unfortunately, the actions are obvious, and I hope that those responsible will have to answer and answer one day. Why was foreign currency sold here, and who bought it? The questions are important. But more importantly, what mechanism was actually used, and who sold these coins and how did the Central Bank end up sending this money to these exchange sites at the end of the day? How does this mechanism work? MY AK PARTY FRIENDS, I swear, that's what you need to know. Ask the new president, please, to write you a special report, who sold this currency first, and how was it transferred from the reporter's account to the buyer's account? Who gave these payment orders? These are vital matters. If you don't get the answers to these questions, how will the Central Bank save this currency reserve in the coming period? I'll tell you briefly: From the time you came to power in 2002 to 2020, Turkey's average net reserve is up and down around 36 to 39 billion dollars. If you need to save the same level of net reserve, then you need to get 30 billion dollars per year -- whether it's hot or direct capital or debt -- and you need to get it all by the Central Bank. You need at least five years to reset the loss of this currency reserve and then move on to the plus, five years. We also know that if you don't pay high interest in this environment, whether it's in the form of hot money, or because the law doesn't work well enough, foreign capital won't come directly. What are we gonna do? Ask that question, don't ask us; ask the president of the Central Bank you've appointed and ask him for a special report, please. And after that, if you think it's appropriate, share it with us, but we know what's up and down. Who sold this currency, public banks or the Turkish Entity Fund? And how did the exchange money get out of the Federal Reserve's safe? Another practice that the government uses as an excuse to fight the pandemic, but its damage to economic stability, is that banks are forced to give loans in the second and third quarter of the year, causing a loan expansion that has never been seen before. The Financial Stabilisation Committee, whose mission is to co-ordinate systemic risk sources, such as balloons at asset prices, extreme leverage rates, rapid credit enlargement, and precipitation, management of capital flows, and to add to its name, jeopardized the health of the banking system by allowing excessive credit expansion. Please, question this as well, not as you can see. Question this, ask for a report from the BDK, ask the Central Bank for a report and ask for this: make a stress test for the health and health of the Turkish banking system and tell us what the outcome is. Yeah, I'm running out of time. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, could you give me a few more minutes?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0144par0059	I've given you two minutes so far. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0143par0061	All right, then I'll wrap it up. In this country, the government has always dealt with the consequences and has told us how to deal with the consequences; he said to us: "Sir, we are stuck, sell your currency." We sold our currency, and the barbers gave us free shaves, sir, and the restaurants gave us food. He didn't, so he said, "Sell the dollar, buy the gold, buy the gold," and we did it. And he said: Take off that which is under the pillow, and We brought it forth, and We vouchsafed it unto the treasure. If anyone knows how to get this under the pillow into the economy, what's the explanation for it, let them come and do it. How do you get the money under your pillow into the economy? That didn't happen either. So we haven't always dealt with reasons, we've dealt with consequences, and that's the point of dealing with consequences. In fact, there's only one thing that needs to be done: to build trust, to build the reputation of national money, to preserve the buy power of the money you put in the citizens' pockets, to fight inflation. But you didn't do it, and there's still trouble with whether you can do it or not.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0145par0065	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0143par0066	So finally, if you want to do it, if you really want to do it, even in the current budget, you have the opportunity to pay the barber, the waiter, the service industry, the master, the school cafeteria, the service drivers, etc., to move on, and you can do it from within the budget, but you don't want to do it that way. What else can you do? Look, remember how we got out of the 2001 crisis, you can do the same today, you can put money in a citizen's pocket. Currently, the banking system has over $322,000, over $1 million in deposits. Each of the 3 accounts has 1 person, 100,000 people have over 1 million TL, and the average is $6.4 million. What did you do three days ago? You've removed the stalls from these deposit accounts, reset them.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0146par0070	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0143par0071	According to a reckoning that I have done and others have done, if this 100,000 people or 100,000 accounts are kept in a three-month savings account, you'll be given up there for $5 billion. But you're thinking of giving 5 million to a million, 2 million shopkeepers. These things can be financed, but they have to be intentional, they need to be clean, they need to be stable. If all this isn't happening, there's no source. Don't say, there's a source at the National Bank of Turkey, but you have to do it wisely, rationally, rationally, thinking about the citizen. Sir, if you take it from there and put it in the pocket of the one who's going to save the company -- he's going to go under -- it's not going to work, but if you're really thinking about the poor poor, it can be done, please do it. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0146par0074	Thank you. The second word for the group belongs to Group Deputy Chairman Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu. Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0147par0079	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the well-adjusted PARTI Group on behalf of the honorable presidents of our political parties, the esteemed Turkish nation following us at the head of their precious MPs and television, the Central Management Budget Law Offer of 2021, and the Central Management Act of 2019. I hereby salute you all with love and respect. At the beginning of my speech, I was going to voice my criticism by saying that the owner of the budget was the President and that the budget he owned had not arrived at the Parliament once and that the budget had been unclaimed. Mr. President isn't here, the Commission is in place, and the lines of Justice and Development Party -- the ruling party -- are empty. I thought the budget was unclaimed, but the budget of 2021 was orphaned.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0148par0081	The owner of the budget is here.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0147par0082	The problem is the lack of ownership of the budget, and this budget has been left unclaimed under this sacred roof. The President owns the budget, the President does it, the President technically prepares it, and the President will use the budget, but neither he nor his party is in Parliament, I'm afraid. I regret to inform you that neither in the Commission process nor in the General Assembly, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been able to demonstrate the will or will to add a penny to the budget of the state of the Republic of Turkey. The V.A.C. shouldn't have had assigned bureaucrats. At this point, it's clear that the administration of the government has become the custodian of custody. Therefore, this budget will be the focus of custody, and it will be no more than a budget imposed on the living of a man. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, when the original owner of the budget wasn't in parliament, naturally there were several issues other than budgets, and debates beyond purpose. By the way, our appointed ministers have also drawn attention to their styles by giving a performance of stone to elected politicians. When the system was called the presidential government system, the criticism of opposition parties was carried out directly on the President's person, there was a one-man debate. And when the ruling wing personalized these arguments -- my opinion is that it was not expected. In fact, we tried to explain that a number of behaviors stemming from the characteristics of Mr. President combined with the court googism created a single sense of manliness and damaged the image of Turkey. Long live Padişah. We wanted to remind you of the great pains of saying, "God is greater than you. " Or we didn't mean to hurt the spirit of the regime by ignoring five contractors just by saying it was one man. Congressmans, we are not unaware of the difficulties Turkey is facing. Thank God we're aware of the traps of imperialism, the plans of forces that are watching over us. We're also aware of the minimum conditions for holding on to this geography. It's a production-based and competitive economy and a strong defense industry that we can't afford. Therefore, we voted yes to the budgets of both our Ministry of Defense and our Defence Industry, as the PARTI, but we can't say to our citizens who can't boil their pot and are condemned to live under the age of hunger. Let me give you a drone, SIHA, ATMACA, and an ATAK if it doesn't exist. The great Turkish nation deserves both security and peace and prosperity simultaneously. I couldn't give you peace and happiness, but I promise you security. You couldn't have done your duty. Respected lawmakers, we continue to deal with important issues in foreign policy as well. At the point where Turkey's obstacles can be overcome, we will continue to demonstrate the determination to continue the maximum contribution. Today, if our Armed Forces are operating beyond our borders, they're doing it with the thesis of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We all condemn the decisions against our country with joint statements, and we celebrate our victories in the same way, but Mr. President Azerbaijan is too harsh to take a single opposition representative with him. At the same time, he does not even consider inviting opposition members to the program on the opening of Marash. It is also useful to say that we condemn this double standard. You are responsible for your calling, and it is incumbent upon Us not to respond. I have stated that we have made a joint commitment to repel the decisions against Turkey and the sanctions intended to be carried out as power and opposition, and HDP is the exception of this approach. The HDP, who, at every opportunity, shows its teeth for imperialism and declares it knows against it, does not condemn the United States, does not answer France, does not speak to Greece, essentially accepts as an ally of whom it is an ally. We do not want to be divided. We do not expect anything different from those who cannot speak a word in connection with their betrayal of the separatist organization. We would like to remind those who describe our southeastern Anatolian provinces as the Kurdish cities, that more than 60 per cent of our Kurdish brothers live in the west of Ankara. Attempting to produce politics through ethnic origin and religion is of no use to anyone. Ethnicity was not enough, and it is now understood that there was an attempt to develop a phrase through the sect and especially through the Aflammatory. The level of this nation, its choice, its choice, and where the Turkish nation stands is understood by the biography. Muhammad on the one hand, Abu Sufian on the other, Ali on the other, Kazeti on the other side, Hasan on the other side, Huseyin on the other side, Yezid on the other side. No matter what you say, millions of Ali, millions of Hassans, millions of Husseins will not allow imperialism to happen. But don't worry, no one can shut you down. Despite being described as the focus of anti-secular acts, this power, which is only imposed by grant restrictions, cannot be registered as nationalism in a Parliament where you are not. Therefore, your presence is needed. They will, of course, find a way out for them, since they will not be able to teach nationalist, democratic, and developmentist nationalism to the People's Party, which is nationalism in its name, one of its six readings. (PARTI and CHP rows) Your presence is also a means of raising your feet over nationalism, which they say has taken over by the power that tries to brush with shaving cream. There's a good thing about every bad thing. It means, if that's what it takes.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0149par0089	Mr. President, what do you say?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0147par0090	We said what we said.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0149par0091	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0147par0092	Mr. President, I'd like to return to the budget after this entry. Budget authority is the reason for the existence of parliament itself. The law, which does not have the authority to approve a state's budget, has lost its most basic function. One of Turkey's most important responsibilities to the nation of the Grand National Assembly is to oversee where taxes collected from the citizens are being spent and where they will be spent. All this talk of budget talks that we're discussing, budget approval, it's almost meaningless in a Parliament that's been stripped of its meaning. There is no reason for Mr. President to be concerned if he doesn't accept the budget law imposed by the party's presidency because he has the right to increase the budget of the next year by raising its value rate and continue collecting taxes and making expenses. So, today, what we're going to express here is that the country's budget of 2021 has been deprived of its power to discuss on the common ground of judgment, to find what's best for our nation, to find what's best for it, and to do what's best for it. The main reason for this is this: Parliamentary democracy would account for people, and this freak system would account for the palace. The prime minister and his cabinet, elected by the nation in the democratic system, were responsible to the Gazi Parliament, a place of national will; in the party's presidential government system, the members of parliament are the officials that he appointed, not the members of parliament. Article 98 of the Constitution shall grant the Veteran Parliament the right to ask questions under the authority to oversee them. During the 27th term, the required and answered question motion rate remained at 8 percent. Isn't this the Constitution of the nation? Isn't that the state of national will? Is it true and acceptable to you that this Veterans Assembly, which is the founding will of the Republic of Turkey, and its valued members, have been ignored by political power? So, as lawmakers, what is our value here? If we can't even answer a question we've raised to political power, you can answer: What will be the reputation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? You made a promise to the nation when you brought the party presidency government system, and you said: "The executive body, along with the new system, will not be able to draft the bill, but the law will be drafted by law lawmakers." (As we have witnessed in commissions and General Assembly, the MP only signs our friends' legal proposals and puts them in front of us under the name of the law. The law is prepared by the bureaucrats of the palace when it should be prepared by lawmakers, and our fellow lawmakers at the ruling party can't reveal their free choice and will, unfortunately. Representatives of the ruling party are working in the Turkish Grand National Assembly to avoid changing a single point of the law text, which is put in front of them instead of being granted the will of the nation. Mr. Erdogan, after his election, I will not be the President of Turkey. He said, "He has expressed himself correctly; Turkey has become a country ruled by decrees, not by law, by the presidency of Mr. Erdoğan." In the first two years of the party's presidency government system, 600 MPs discussed 1,493 articles, while President Recep Tayyip Erdogan alone carried out 2,229 articles. Even this data has shown itself and shows that the presidential government system is a system designed for the leader, not for the nation. The parliament is being deliberately pacified, and the effectiveness and control of the law is being reduced. There's a parliament in the Party's Presidential government that can't respond to written question motions, only signatories in law proposals, budget approval, nonverbal questions, non-responsive, no vote of confidence, in a nutshell all legislative and control powers have been removed from its hands. If the legislature of lawmakers has been stripped of its legal authority, if the High Assembly has lost its tax and spending power in its form, then this Grand Assembly has lost its powers and has been pushed aside. But let it not be forgotten: from the very first day of its establishment, Turkey's Grand National Assembly, the only Parliament with the title of the Shaazi Parliament, has acted on the awareness of the responsibility and qualities that history has imposed on it. Under no circumstances does the nation's sovereignty require any person, institution, community or class to ensure that it is not allowed to be released and that the nation's will be granted in the interest of the nation's nation, on the honor and honor of the members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, if Parliament does not have any political control authority over the executive body through constitutional means, the solution is to turn it into a improved, reinforced parliamentary democratic system. If today's Parliament is trying to be transformed into a government institution that approves law proposals from the palace bureaucracy, the solution is to turn it into a improved, reinforced parliamentary democratic system. If Turkey's Grand National Assembly does not even have a operational control authority over its most basic duty in tax spending, the solution is to transform it into a improved, reinforced parliamentary democratic system. This political order has not only failed to recognise the Parliament's control and legislative function, but has also made this nation pay huge economic costs, and continues to pay. In July 2018, large unemployment in July 2018 was 5.6 million, and at the end of the two years with the presidential government system, the number drew close to 10 million people and increased by almost 80 per cent. As you know, between normal unemployment and broadly defined unemployment, the most striking mass is those who have lost hope of looking for work. So you brought a system and led millions to despair, not even the hope of living in prosperity, but just the hope of finding a job. The situation of the young unemployed is even worse. According to official records, young unemployment is 24.3 per cent, which means one out of four young people are unemployed. Between 15 and 24 years of age, we have 1,200,000 college graduates. Of these, 400,000 have given up hope of looking for work, are no longer looking for work, and some 250,000 of our remaining 800,000 young people are unemployed, so more than half of our 1,200,000 college graduates are unemployed. You've condemned an entire youth to an eternal internship. 62% of our young people have settled abroad to live there. If a country loses its youth, a country's youth loses its vision of its own country, there's no need to look beyond the limits of the beka problem, that's the real problem in that country. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] In 2017, Turkey was ranked 17th in the GDP world ranking, while the presidency fell two places back in the 2nd year of the government system, and Turkey was already in the 19th place in 1990, and we are expected to fall into the 20th place at the end of this year. In 1990, Turkey was the 49th place in the world on a national income per capita, and in 2019, we were ranked 74th in 2019. It's not what we say, it's not your data, it's IMF data. The painting is in the middle; the new Turkey is searching for the old Turkey. In the second quarter of 2018, our national income -- about $880 billion -- will likely drop under $700 billion at the end of 2020. Turkey's national income has melted around 200 billion dollars in two and a half years. This means that Turkey's illegal domestic product has evaporated as much as Greece's illegal domestic product. This system will blow the country. When you say, "You have vaporized our national income, you can boast of your work." You have condemned the Turkish nation to poverty with the presidential government system you have brought with you with a promise of peace and prosperity. In the past, poverty was the problem of a part of society, but today it has become the way of life for almost half of society. You've put the poverty you've created in order. The external debt between July 2018 and today is almost no different in dollars, from 430 billion to 450 billion. At the same time, the dollar was dry 4.61, and now it was 7.84. So our external debt increased from $2 trillion in dollars to 3.5 trillion. We are talking about a system that will raise the country. Our debts have been raised. When the system change is carried out, our budget deficit is 32 billion Turkish liras, while it is expected to have 240 billion Turkish liras at the end of this year, so it's up to 8 times that. The last year before the new system, which is 2017, is expected to spend $57 billion on interest costs, while 180 billion is expected to be spent next year. And the interest costs have tripled. We understand that those who take over the state administration by saying, "Give this brother the authority." They have broken the bonds of brotherhood with the nation, and are under the obligation of the international interest lobby. There are only a few indicators left unspoiled. And you're forced to say those numbers and try to block out this collapse. Don't work in vain, put those numbers aside and turn around and look at people. People's wallets are empty, the kitchen is on fire; tradesmen, farmers, workers cry, they can't profit, but they pay rent, they can't make money, they can't fight, they can't find work, they're trying to hold on to life. The inflation you dropped on paper doesn't fall in the market or in the market; the citizen is burning with real inflation. Market shelves are like stockboards, prices are changing so fast that the staff can't keep up with changing labels anymore. Once a citizen can't get the product for the same price, not a month later. Oil prices, dry food prices, are practically rallying on shelves. The TÜİK says, "You are wrong, prices have not increased." He almost mocks the mind of the citizen. It has now been seen that economic development and stability will not be possible, with all the powers gathered in one person, the notions of the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary destroyed, our independent institutions at the command of power, the system in which democracy has been put on the shelf. All authorities, positions and systems exist to serve the Turkish nation. In its centre, non-national constitutional order and political systems are doomed to change. In the remote corners of our Anatolian, if our citizens are hungry for pillows, if mothers and fathers are ashamed of their children because they can't meet the simplest needs, if citizens have reached the point where they can end their own life from poverty, poverty, despair, there is only one thing left to say: Turkey must be free of this freaky system and must be saved. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, I'd like to share with you some information about public-private cooperation, but in the opening statement of the budget, both our Group President and Mr. Erhan Master have contributed in a very comprehensive way. I said what I needed to say in my budget speech regarding this public-private co-operation issue that you're talking about, and even the last Prime Minister, I did all this. Come, let me enlighten you about this. I couldn't accept your invitation, but I'm going to accept that invitation as soon as I can, and I'm going to try to find out about it. What I'm telling you with my influence is that you have to hear the suffering of our nation under the burden of taxes and credit. You will hear it, or you will leave this power at the will of the nation. Indeed, they had no patience for you, nor could they have patience. If Turkey of the 21st century is experiencing a oppressive period, and we're still in search of justice and democracy, where is it? If the ruling party that has ruled the state for 18 years is still talking about justice reforms today, we have a problem. This problem is the common problem of all of us, 83 million. The problem is that, along with the presidential government system, a full siege of the judiciary, a suspension of justice. The essential rule of democracies is judicial independence; all developed state models aim to share the power of forces and to ensure balance and control mechanisms in this way. There is no mention of judicial independence in a country where politicians are involved, where illegal arrests have been made by phone or illegal evacuations have been carried out. Justice can no longer be established by a court order in which the citizen on the street no longer trusts the judge, a symbol of justice, the blindfold of the statue, and the scales are constantly heavy with those of the ruling party. The presidential government system is the name of the regime where one person imposes law and justice. If you impose judgment, the judge will cease to be a judge, the prosecutor will cease to be a prosecutor, and all members of the judiciary will become an extension of political power. Hitler's counsel for justice, Hans Frank, used to say to the German judges: "In every decision you make, ask yourself, how would the Führer decide in my place?" Unfortunately, the rule of law in Turkey of the 21st century reminds Germany of the 1940s. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Would you excuse me?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0150par0112	Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0147par0113	Today, judges and prosecutors who should be independent in Turkey feel compelled to ask themselves: "If our President were in my position, how would he decide? " Whatever reform you make in a country with judges and prosecutors asking that question, you cannot establish justice. This nation does not deserve a judicial order where the courts work as the Justice and Development Party's legal commissions. Now, what you're saying is: let's reform the judge. It's like giving pain medication to a patient in intensive care to reform the judiciary. Turkey's problem is a systematic problem, and the solution is only possible if the system changes. Otherwise, you can't build and establish justice in this country, let alone reform. Even if you do revolution. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0150par0117	Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0147par0118	Congressmans, the budget bill is being passed today. This budget, I know, is a figure budget; let it be a job, and let it be a bag. A budget in the form of a budget is just like the bag of laws that we make, so it's a force law. This budget does not favour citizens, this budget does not create development, this budget does not correct revenue distribution, does not anticipate investment. In 2020, there is no chance of finding a loan or an outside investor. This is a budget that will give the Republic of Turkey its largest budget deficit. Even the planned deficit is 250 billion, and it's a bad expectation that this number will go above $400 billion. At the same time and year, the current is up 40 billion dollars, making a historic record. Again, at the same time and year, the Turkish National Bank of Turkey's foreign currency reserve gave away $50 billion because it owed an extra Swap. My last words, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0150par0121	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0147par0122	So we're dealing with a double open in the above article, plus a lack of reserve at the Central Bank of Turkey, without reserve, without discretion, and with extreme swap debt. This budget is not going to cure unemployment, and it doesn't even matter to the budget. This budget is not a public welfare budget. In this budget, we see that the public is not saving money, and even the waste is not over. This budget represents itself as a budget for draining resources. This budget has no vision, so it's a mission. We found nothing in this budget in favor of a citizen. It means that we will vote no to this budget, which we have found nothing good in it, and I salute the High Assembly, and I thank you for your patience and kindness. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit04spe0151par0126	Thank you. I'm taking a three-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0151par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. The commission is in place.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0152par0004	Mr. President, I wanted to make a promise before the break, but...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0151par0005	Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0152par0006	Thank you. I asked for your word before you took a break, but you didn't see it. There was a tease, and I wanted to give him a quick answer.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0151par0008	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0152par0011	Thank you. The Vice President of the Good Party has also called our party's name and made criticisms and taunts. I just want to make a point. One is, it's about sanctions and the S-400. Now, we've told you here before, and I've told you from the bench, and I've told you once again, while there's a Secretary of State: first, there's a saying in philosophy that I'm reduced to Latin ad absurdity. Now, for that reason, I'm saying this: you're a member, you're a member of NATO. We like it, we don't like it; it's something else.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0151par0014	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0152par0015	A NATO member country wants to take the weapons developed by another country on a side against NATO, as well as high-tech weapons, and place them on its territory. It's the kind of thing I've been thinking about. It's the kind of step that's reduced to nonsense. At the time, when we first came to the agenda, we explained the purchase of the S-400, and we explained that it was wrong. This has nothing to do with whether we like NATO, whether it's realistic foreign policy, and we said it's going to be facing major challenges, and eventually a few years later, it's really come to the point that we're talking about. Now, it wasn't a realistic foreign policy, it was the wrong decision. Why must all opposition parties line up behind a wrong decision by power? If a foreign policy is right, if it is wrong, it is wrong; wrong is wrong. So we think it's not a very right attitude to claim opposition by aligning behind every false foreign policy of power.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0151par0017	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0152par0018	I'm picking it up. So, our position on this is very clear, and it has nothing to do with imperialism and whether or not we are against imperialism. And the answer to this imperialism was that we actually showed the position of the 6th Fleet in Dolmabahçe years ago, and I don't know where you were then. Now, the second issue is about closing the party. Mr. President, we are here in the House as all political parties, and we think that the closure of this party should be given a principled answer from all democratic parties. Whether or not the ruling party is closed down or not, that's not the issue of discussion. In principle and in terms of democracy, political parties fight and compete against each other in democratic politics; are they rivals or do they not find out whether they are right to eliminate a political party from democratic politics by pressuring the judiciary through power?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0153par0022	Complete, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0152par0023	This question has a principled answer. In fact, what we expect from all political parties is an attitude towards this principled position, essentially. Turkey is a closed-party cemetery. Look, judging by the Justice and Development Party, the National Peace Party, the National Party, the Welfare Party, the Party are closed. There's no need to count it, you guys know it better than I do. As far as we're concerned, five parties have been shut down, and the last one, the Democratic Society Party, has been shut down during the Justice and Development Party's reign. Well, is there any problem solved? It's unresolved. So you have to look at it this way. And the last one is: People's Democratic Party -- we always say -- you can't just lock the door, not the grocery store.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0153par0026	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0152par0027	That's my last word, sir. It's a great public movement, the People's Democratic Party, the voice of Turkish democratic forces, especially the Kurdish people, is its word, its representative. So let's put the lock on the store, and it's over, and it's over. There's no result. (Applause from HDP rows) We will continue our struggle against democracy, freedom, peace, justice, our struggle for equality, with all our strengths and resources, without compromise of democratic politics and make sure that we will come out of this struggle with greater and greater hope. And we're not worried about that at all. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0154par0030	Thank you. Dear friends, I will make a five-minute commitment to those who demand from the presidents of political parties, represented by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey but without a group, not to set a precedent. In this scope, I pledge five minutes to the Turkish Labour Party's President and Istanbul MP Mr. Erkan Bashaş. [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Head.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0155par0041	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly and all my fellow citizens, who watch us at the beginning of the screens, who live hard, hard-working, hard-working. Dear President, I'd like to make a request to begin. We've been trying for 15 days, we've only had five minutes; I've been sitting here for 12 days, watching the whole General Assembly; every time something's said right on this stand, there's screaming from this side. If it's possible, they'll listen quietly without yelling at me for this little speech.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0156par0045	Guys, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0155par0046	Guys, don't yell, let's finish. You don't have to confirm what I said. Now, dear friends, we've been arguing here for 12 days, and the AKP Group says in a nutshell: "Our President, our President, has put together a budget so perfect that 600 MPs have sent us that we've been working for two and a half months, and we haven't found one missing, comma. That's what they're saying. Now, I don't know how much we can talk about, I'm not going to repeat this budget, this budget, this budget. Look, I just got a report from the AKP Group, and I'm here with him. We are faced with a situation so strange that I think the AKP has really begun to prepare itself for the opposition, where it constantly responds to criticism from the opposition. Look, dear friends, sometimes history comes like this, a moment gets stuck, a word sums it all up in the moment of the squeeze. This budget is in history as the budget for dry bread, so you're going to tell this nation that you're going to eat dry bread. And what are you doing because you can't defend it for him? For example, look, be careful, I can read one-on-one from the transcript. I, for example, don't want to get into the fight with the soldier, who sees himself as a soldier, who sees himself as a soldier, are separate issues, but I'll point out one thing: The thing that the AKP Group applauds most is that you applaud a lot when the story is told here, friends. Miss Özlem has told a tale here, and there's applause behind it. Now, I'm not going to go into the definition of a soldier; I know what cases people are going after, for example, and I know that those who are connected with an accomplice are called soldiers, but let's not get into those arguments here. Now, what did Mr. Miss Rich say? He said: "It's a lawless Turkey." And if I'm not mistaken, he pointed to himself and said, "It's a lawless Turkey." Guys, the bans don't stop when they're just for you. Look, workers can't unionize in Turkey. Miss Özlem, you know that the workers came to see you, and when they left, they couldn't talk outside, they got beat up by the police. Do the bans continue for the workers? It does. Guys, are there any workers in here? Forbidden...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0157par0052	Yes, I do.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0155par0053	I'm sorry there was one person. Guys, three percent. How many people are there? Is that all the representation there is? I mean, the bans go on the same way. Now, in the matter of one man, there is one person who decides everything.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0158par0055	For God's sake!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0155par0056	Are we aware of the existence of three different organs called legislation, execution, judgment? Is it acceptable for all of this to depend on one person? I don't think that's acceptable. Look, guys, this can't be the case of Kavala today. Yesterday? İrfan Fidan was elected to the Constitutional Court without opening one file in the Supreme Court. Now, does this point to a single man's regime? I think it does. Özlem Rich says that all political parties have presidents, one decides. Look, Miss Özlem, you said: "There is a final decision to be made everywhere. Let's ask Mr. Bululi Yıldırım. Let's ask: You've been president, you've been Prime Minister, and you've been making the final decision, right? Why don't you ask about Davutoglu, Miss Özlem? (Applause from CHP and HDP rows) Davutoglu served as President; he served as Prime Minister; who made the decisions? I think that's what we're criticizing. We need to see this. Dear friends, I say that in this country, unfortunately, anything for those who have money is free, and in the same way the ban goes on for the poor, for the labourer, for the poorer, for the poorer. Now, let's stop with the fairy tale part, but it occurred to me that if I have to mention this budget with a fairy tale, I think that this budget will go down in history as "Pinokyo" budget, and as of today it's possible to call it "Pinokyo budget." [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] Now, I really wish I could talk more. For example, I can't help but say that sometimes the truth destroys hundreds of lies. Miss Özlem said: "There is no dictatorship if there is a chest." Here are the results of Hitler's chest, my friends. Either Hitler is not a dictator, or even though there is a crate in Turkey, we can call someone a dictator, that's what it looks like.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0159par0063	Tell me the comparison, the comparison.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0155par0064	Well, dear friends, unfortunately...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0160par0065	Are you against the trunk?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0159par0066	Tell me about the comparison.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0160par0067	You want custody?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0161par0068	In this country...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0162par0070	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0161par0071	Guys, if it's gonna be polemic, I'll do it for a long time. For example, your minister spoke here two days ago, in case the people chose you, he wouldn't give up power. You've been slapped in the chest in Istanbul, you've done everything you could not give; you're still talking to me from here, leave. Let's put them aside, let's not mess with them.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0163par0072	You're so democratic!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0164par0073	The people didn't give, the people didn't.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0161par0074	Guys, forget it. What I'm saying is, what would happen if this budget was a public budget, if the worker had a budget?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0164par0075	What would happen?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0161par0076	Look, it's health, isn't it? I say, let's do a heart test. All private hospitals should be governmentized. How can health be bought and sold? Don't you have a bad conscience? One of them's sick, so he can't go to the hospital like a five-star hotel because he can't afford it.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0164par0078	He's going, he's going.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0161par0079	But where the Minister of Health owns a chain of health hospitals, you can't state private hospitals, you can't nationalize them. I'm telling you, in the power of a laborer, all private hospitals belong to the state, and in hospitals like five-star hotels with no money and no money. Are you in?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0165par0080	Our hospitals are like five-star hotels.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0161par0081	Dear friends, let me continue.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0166par0083	We couldn't get our funerals.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0161par0084	My dear friends, look, it's education, isn't it? Education. What if he can't get his kid to read with no money, the one with the money... am I lying? He sends his child to the most luxurious schools with money; he takes ballet lessons; he learns computer education; he learns coding; he learns foreign language; he sends his child with money to America; he sends them to Europe with money; he cannot teach them without money. I say, if you have a public budget, you will not privatize education, my friend. We're going to nationalize all private schools, public children and working children will study in private schools. Why do you rebel against it? Do your kids have to go to private school or do these people just have kids who can't read? Dear friends, last, home: Look, I say that every person has the right to live in a safe, happy, peaceful home. It's a human right. Everyone has the right to have a home, but...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0166par0087	We gave it to him, we gave it to him.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0167par0088	Let's complete it, Mr. Head.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0161par0089	No, what you've done is you've made contractors rich in TOKI contracts, you've made people...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0166par0090	Ask the public.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0168par0091	Who built their house?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0161par0092	Friends, look, Turkey is a country like this: You pay interest to the bank for years to become a host, you make contractors rich, you work 40 years, you lose your life without a landlord. It's beneath human dignity. Dear friends, I'm afraid you've made the country that way, so it won't be over for 15 days, not five minutes of the country's woes. So let's take a brief and brief approach. We have to make a choice, every man will make a choice: we will either be with the workers, the workers, the poor, the workers, or we will be with the moneymen; we have no choice. This budget is with their fathers. This budget salt is the budget of the dry. This budget, unfortunately, will go down in history as the Pinokyo budget.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0169par0096	It's been a citizen's budget for 19 years.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0170par0097	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0171par0098	Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0170par0099	Mr. President, I'd like to speak from the stand, there's been a lot of bullying, very clearly.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0171par0100	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0170par0104	Mr. President, I think Mr. Erkan Baş is one of our best-known friends in this House; we've had a lot of talks together in the back of the House, we've met about miners, so I think he's one of the people who knows my approach to life very well. But I'd like to point out that when it comes to the working party, it's not just about the workers. Now, how many working families have children here, and how many of our friends have come here working as workers, so let's say, let's put our hands together... like Ramazan Can, who's been heating himself up, graduated from law school, and is one of the most valuable lawmakers of our party today. We have a lot of friends like that. How many of our friends went to private school? I've never been to a private school in my life, I've come here to study at a government boarding school without money. Let's ask all our friends. [[Applause from the EC PARTY ranks, noise from HDP rows]] Now, wait a minute, wait a minute... you're talking about fairy tales. I care about telling a story because it's the first time I've told a story here, why am I telling it? Our group is accused of something, and I believe there's a continuity of conversations; you accuse us, and I tell you the true story of the lead soldier. Your parable has nothing to do with us, tell me other stories. Maybe you could give the guys you're with an example of being Pinocchio. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, about the bans, when the bans... look, I never mentioned the headscarf in my speech, never took it in my mouth. But when there's talk of bans, I realize it's not understood. Look, Mr. Erkan Chief, there's no man in this country who can't be chosen just because he's a worker, and there's no woman who can't be chosen just because her head is open. The only women in Turkey who are categorically banned are the women with the mass headscarves. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Please accept this. Every time I mention these bans, do I have to confirm them again? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One moment, please, one moment, Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0172par0112	Please...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0170par0113	Every time we talk about these bans, I have to tell you one thing: Yes, sir, in Turkey, the first explanations can be chosen; yes, we had a woman like that before, we had a Minister of the Interior. Why do we have to confirm them? Those who live in this ban in Turkey; those who live without its category name, identity, name, face -- those who live without it -- are only women with headscarves, and that freedom came with our President during the EC PARTI period. It's very clear, and I'll say it one more time. So, if it's a fairy tale, we can tell a fairy tale every time we talk, and I'm looking down on fairy tales, and I'm looking down on the fact that I can't read a little life, so thank you, as long as we're telling the right stories. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0173par0117	Mr. President, I have the right to make a statement based on a different opinion from what I have suggested, according to 69...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0174par0118	What's it like, what's it like?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0173par0119	I didn't say the headscarfs weren't just victims of the headscarfs.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0175par0120	That's what you say.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0173par0121	He's referring to me for his opinions outside of my own.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0175par0122	No, Mr. President, that sample... it's an example of the workers, no, the workers can't come.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0173par0123	He gave me a different opinion than the one I suggested, and I need to fix it.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0176par0124	Mr. Erkan, I'll take a look at the reports.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0173par0125	Here you go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0176par0126	You're telling me, and I'm going to look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0173par0127	I declare that I did not say what Miss Özlem said.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0176par0128	I'll take a look at the records.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0173par0129	Please, I beg you, I want to talk about bullying according to 69.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0176par0130	In order to speak, the president of the Grand Union Party demanding...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0173par0132	Mr. President, excuse me, please, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0176par0133	I'll take a look at the records, Mr. Head.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0173par0134	He said that a party called the Workers' Party could not only represent the workers. He said, he said many things. None of what you're saying has anything to do with what I'm saying.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0176par0135	Okay, yeah, I'll take a look at the transcripts and I'll make a decision. I'm not making my decision now, Mr. Chief.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0173par0136	Mr. President, I'll talk to you for two minutes, it'll be over.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0176par0137	No, no.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0177par0138	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0176par0143	In order to speak, the president of the Grand Union Party demanding...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0177par0144	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0176par0145	...and Mr. Mustafa Destici, the Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0177par0148	Mr. President, there's an open taunt here.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0178par0149	Mr. President, what are you doing?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0176par0150	Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0177par0151	But there's a taunt, the president, pointing at us and saying, "Your friends" said, "Pinokyo," so we've heard it.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0179par0152	No, Mr. President, I've never dealt with it, ever. I have responded to Erkan Prime Minister.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0176par0153	I made a promise to our orator friend on the stand, and then I'll make a promise to the Deputy Directors of the Group.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0179par0154	I have answered Erkan Prime, and I have no answer for them.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0180par0155	Did you guys pick on me or not?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0176par0156	Guys...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0179par0157	No, I answered.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0176par0158	Mr. Rich, please...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0181par0159	You teased me, you teased me.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0179par0160	No, I don't accept it.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0176par0161	Mr. Head...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0182par0162	Please, look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0176par0163	Mr. Danış Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0183par0164	Mr. Erkan was sitting behind you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0182par0165	Didn't you say your friends?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0183par0166	Because Erkan is sitting behind Ms. Major Coral, he thinks he has every look, so he's got a lot of feisty.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0182par0167	Didn't you say "friends"?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0183par0168	I was looking for Erkan Bey, not you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0182par0169	Did you or did you not say your friends?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0184par0170	Who's my friend here?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0183par0171	Mr. Erkan, I've been telling stories, stories.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0185par0172	Mr. Destici, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0186par0173	Dear President, Honourable Vice President and Vice Presidents, valued MPs, 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2019 Central Management Certain Accounting Law Proposal, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Party of the Great Unity. First of all, I wish the budget to be good for our country and our nation, and I thank those who have done so. Dear lawmakers, dear citizens, we are experiencing extraordinary circumstances. The pandemic is causing mass deaths around the world, while it continues to shake up social life and economies. Beyond all interviews, I would like to remind you that it is primarily the duty of the state, the government, and, of course, of our Veterans Parliament to protect their jobs, our citizens, and the disadvantaged parties who have lost their income under the influence of the pandemic and the constraints. Just a reminder, I told you in my last speech, now that the presidents are here, I'll tell you again. What happened? Are you or are you not interested in giving 481 million dollars to political parties next year to our tradesman who's fighting to live? Or do you think you're going to be one of those who says, "Let's give this life"? If you give us this, you can give us exactly six thousand liras for our 130,000 tradesmen, over the three thousand lira rent allowance. One thing about minimum wage, I've already stated: minimum wage must be in line with justice in income distribution, there is a 22.88 per cent increase in budget, at least this increase should be above the minimum number of $2.855. Dear lawmakers, my fellow citizens, the budget is also a result. I've been tracking budgets for over 40 years, almost the same conversations, same agendas, positively, negatively, unfortunately, on our country's agenda. Forty years ago, we were talking about interest, inflation, foreign debt, internal debt, current account deficits, and today we continue to talk about the same negative situations. We must first eliminate the reasons for this. At the very beginning of these reasons, there's a cumulative number over $1.5 trillion that we've spent on terrorism in 35 years. If this figure had not been spent, public savings could have been achieved, and planning could have been done correctly for 40 years, we would not be paying high interest today, we would not be struggling with high inflation, we would not have a budget deficit, and we would not have a citizen, especially the minimum wage, and those under it had to live under these conditions. So I say, let's focus on the reasons, and let's unite, form the inner front, and let's fight this together. My dear citizens, my dear lawmakers, I have just pronounced the numbers that terror has targeted, lost, and cannot be compensated in any way. Now, some people say, "Why is a trustee appointed?..... why is a trustee not appointed to fight terrorism, but to lose another $1.5 trillion?" So, first of all, all of us and all of us need to put together a clear stance on this. Every area of terror needs to be dealt with, all its elements. If there is a party associated with terrorism, supporting and not condemning, of course, it will be shut down; it will be shut down according to the Constitution, and closed according to our laws -- the example of Batasuna and Herri Batasuna is in the middle -- it will be shut down according to the ECHM. And those who have expressed an opinion or abused it in order not to be shut down here, they've already shown how extravagant they are by supporting the closing of the party in 2010, and we all know that. When we listen to what those who are hostile to Turkey from the United States to France, Greece to Armenia, we can easily understand that their hostility is actually the presence of the Muslim Turk, the existence of the Muslim Turk, and the values that our beloved nation is blessed with.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0187par0181	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0186par0182	We have the means here to take over these countries. In particular, there are around 20 US and NATO bases in our country that have been deployed in some way throughout six geographical areas. Other bases are classified under the Treaty of Defence and Economic Co-operation (SEIA) signed with the United States in 1980. So we can start by shutting them down, and like after 1974, we can make sure that America sits at the table with Turkey, and that it does not fall into any more impositions, such as embargoing Turkey with water. Dear lawmakers, my dear citizens, the destructive activities of terrorist organizations and the extensions of these organisations that target our country and our nation, are actually helping us to understand the matter from a completely different perspective.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0187par0185	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0186par0186	We must be determined that when France is having problems with Greece, while Greece is having problems with Greece, we must never allow Armenia to take advantage of those who are with the United States and those who are with the United States when they are having problems with the US, and those who are a spokesman for terrorism and advocates of terrorist funerals, from the public resources of those who are standing in the presence of terrorist funerals, the lives of our martyrs and martyrs who have given their lives for this land in the same way as their families. This is a debt we owe to our nation, our history and our martyrs. Mr. President, I'd like to point out that a few days ago, a CHP MP here, underestimating the vote we received, was at a loss to occupy our party. Now, from here, I'd like to share the SEC results with them. The Great Unity Party, you know, joined the 2018 General Elections as a partner in the Cumhur Alliance.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0187par0189	Let's finish, please, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0186par0190	In the 2019 local elections in the east and southeast, we have nominated 818,872 of the valid results in municipal council membership -- 2 per cent in the municipal general elections -- 191.087 of the current votes in the cities and other cities, with the precision of our support for the Cumhur Alliance, only 1.4/4 of the major cities -- and only 30 million votes in the mayoral presidency -- when you think of it as a total number of 685 million, 6,6966 million votes. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My last words, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0187par0193	Let's finish, please. Look, it's been four minutes, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0186par0194	In each condition and situation, the man of his party and trial, 1,696, 762 players, will continue to stand there tomorrow as well as today, with the same consciousness and the same belief, the state's integrity, the nation's sovereignty and future as it was yesterday. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I wish our budget to be good again, to renew our support for the budget, to welcome our Veteran Assembly and all our citizens with love and respect. Peace be with you. Yours truly.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0188par0199	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0189par0200	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0190par0201	I didn't tease him.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0188par0202	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't need to come to the bench, I can answer from here.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0190par0204	Mr. President, it wasn't just me, I object. I didn't pick on him, if it wasn't for this.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0188par0205	I'll give you the pick-me-up line.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0191par0206	Please...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0192par0207	You picked on me, didn't you?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0193par0208	I didn't, I mean, I didn't pick on you again.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0194par0209	So through Erkan Bey, Mr. Erkan may be your friends over the head. He said it was a story you told.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0193par0210	Mr. President, it doesn't matter because he's sitting behind her, he's sitting behind Miss Coral, Mr. Erkan. I didn't mean the party I called your friends, the HDP.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0194par0211	Anyway, I'll give you a quick answer.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0195par0212	Mr. Rich, I usually give my word to the Deputy Group Presidents. I mean, apart from the bullying context, it could be an explanation.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0193par0213	But if it's teasing, I want answers, too. I've never seen such teasing, Mr. President. It's a kind of pick-me-up from a flying bird. For God's sake! That's an interesting tease.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0195par0214	I promise Mr. Beştaş. Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0196par0218	Mr. President, the story Erkan Prime told from the stand was the story of Pinocchio. He called us "Pinokyo."
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0197par0219	He didn't, he was with Pinocchio.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0196par0220	It's an identical example of lying, the concept. I mean, we don't know how to lie. We've paid enormous prices for telling the truth, and we're still paying them. Right now, we have thousands of friends...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0198par0221	Mr. President, I think there's a problem. I didn't tell him that, I refuse, Mr. President. I mean, Mr. President, no.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0199par0222	Mr. Rich, if you want, I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0198par0223	Yes, I do, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0199par0224	Please, but let it go, you two don't talk together.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0198par0225	But there's something strange about it, Mr. President. There's something really weird about it.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0199par0226	Mr. Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0200par0227	Since we don't lie, because we speak the truth, because we defend the truth against a hundred years of memorization in Turkey today, these attacks against us, these allegations, these arrests, these operations continue to happen. We are defenders of the truth, we never have a policy on lying. This accusation is unacceptable. I really don't want to cause any more bullying.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0199par0228	Please...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0201par0229	No, but he answers to me. Who says "Pinokyo"?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0200par0230	So I'd like to say that we've seen that this statement is not very unfortunate and well-intentioned. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0202par0232	Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0203par0234	Mr. President, I really think it's strange. If I did, I'd say I was picking on you. I didn't say anything to Mr. Beştaş. Since Mr. Erkan is sitting behind him, I am forced to turn my head there as I look at Erkan Bey.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0204par0235	So you picked on me.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0203par0236	If I were to choose a story for him, I'd think, you know, if I chose Pinocchio, I'd find another story with more blood on it. The Pinocchio tale is a tale pronounced by Erkan Bey, and my return -- related to the story -- is to Erkan Bey's friends, no bullying. That's why I find it incredibly unnecessary to be answered without teasing him. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0204par0238	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0205par0239	Mr. President, let's just file a report. Perhaps you can set an example of becoming Pinocchio to your friends.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0203par0240	Yeah, so it's you? Do you always have to be her friends? It's not you, I'm telling Erkan Bey.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0204par0241	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0206par0242	I believe you're from different parties, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0203par0243	Mr. Erkan is sitting behind him. Are you from the same party?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0207par0244	I've got the president, I've got my friend.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0208par0245	Miss Miss Özlem already told me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0209par0246	Mr. Erkan, I'll take a look at the reports.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0210par0247	Erkan Bey, are you my friend?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0211par0248	Mr. President, he claims, he says, "I've had enough."
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0209par0249	I'll look at the records, compare them, and I'll decide accordingly, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0212par0250	Miss Özlem admitted she was picking on me.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0209par0251	I haven't looked at the reports, Mr. Head.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0212par0252	No, he already told me, Mr. President, he told me.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0209par0253	The President appreciates your time in the Civil Code 69. It's called, please...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0212par0254	It's an open challenge, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0209par0255	But you read some of the Civil Charter 69, read all about it.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0212par0256	No, I read the whole thing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0209par0257	Look at his second joke.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0212par0258	Miss Özlem says you've been teasing Erkan Bey. She says you've been teasing him.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0209par0259	It's not just the passing of the name, look, you're out five minutes, I've given you my most admirable promise, you've spent three minutes of five minutes saying the name of the person, please...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0212par0260	Mr. President, now you're picking on me.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0209par0261	You're picking on me, and then we promise not to pick on you again, and then we promise not to pick on you until the morning. That can't happen, please...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0212par0262	Mr. President, you're picking on me right now.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0209par0263	I'll take care of it, I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0212par0264	You're picking on me right now, and I want to talk to you about picking on me.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0209par0265	I'll take care of it, I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0212par0266	You guys picked on me. You've made a mockery of me, I demand your word.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0209par0267	I mean, you probably think you're gonna get a lot of use out of this picking on me.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0212par0268	Please... you're picking on me right now...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0209par0269	Guys, I'm, look, I'm reading the Civil Code 69...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0212par0270	Mr. President, you're picking on me right now.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0209par0271	Wait a minute... wait a minute...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0212par0272	Mr. President, I have a request.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0209par0273	Mr. Head, I'm going to apply the entire 69. Dear friends, according to the third joke of the Interior Charter 69, the President says that if the President insists on not making promises, he will present them with the approval of the General Assembly if he is persistent. I'll vote on it. I vote that I make no promises, no promises, no promises...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0213par0276	Mr. President, you're going down in history, you're going down in history with this.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0209par0277	Those who don't want to be given... yes, according to the third joke of 69, the matter is closed. [Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP)]
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0213par0278	No, President, it's not closed, it's not closed. Let me read it. Mr. President, may I read it?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0214par0279	Mr. President, you didn't do that.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0209par0280	Read 'em, read 'em, read 'em, read 'em again, '69.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0213par0281	Mr. President, I want word on your bullying. I want you to promise to pick on me. You voted for Miss Özlem, you didn't vote for it.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0209par0286	The first word on his behalf belongs to Yalova MP Ahmet Bügümş. Here you go, Mr. Big Shot. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time has been ten minutes...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0215par0290	Mr. President, you voted Mrs. Özlem. And you teased me, so I'd like to say it again. I want a word again, vote for the 2nd, and vote for the 2nd. So you picked on him.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0209par0292	Read 69/3, 69/3...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0216par0293	Sit down!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0217par0294	Respect the House!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0218par0295	Wait a minute... I'm talking to the president.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0219par0296	It's over, it's over, no. Here you go, Mr. Big Shot.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0220par0298	Mr. President, precious MPs, we're finishing our 2021 budget talks today after the long meetings. On this occasion, I have made a commitment to the entire budget on my own behalf. I salute your high council. We stand before you and our beloved nation in our 19th budget since our party came to power in 2002. From transportation to health, from social policy to agriculture, from energy to urbanism, we've been riveting our nation's heart for 18 years with service politics that we've run from our country east to west, north to south. We're moving forward today in a much stronger way. As we restore relations between reforms in the fields of justice and security and the individual and the state, we also bring to life a more involved understanding of governance. In the coming months, we will strengthen this process further by taking steps under the previous Human Rights Action Plan and Judicial Reform Strategy. Congressmans, the budget we're talking about isn't just numbers and statistics, it means a lot more than that. For us, the budget means the welfare, peace, security of the citizen; the budget means the future of children and us young people. Since 2002, I want to talk to you about two structural transformations that I consider important in managing budget resources: According to OECD research, 43.4 per cent of central management spending in 2002, almost half of them were going to interest. As of 2020, we've narrowed it down to 11.3 percent. Again, in 2002, 85.7 per cent of tax revenues went to interest spending, which we reduced to 17.4 per cent in 2020. Now people's money is not going to interest, it's going to service, it's going to invest. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We've always put education and health first in our budgets. It is a huge gain for our country's future that the largest share of the 2021 budget has been relocated to education and that the healthcare budget has been increased by 40 per cent. Today, we are one of the most effective countries to deal with the pandemic process, thanks to the thousand sacrifices of our medical staff, each of whom we are grateful for their sacrifice. At this time, again, our teachers were with their students spiritually and with the idea by turning their homes into classrooms. Turkey will continue its course in good faith by strengthening the health army and the training army further. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Only the hospitals, roads, dams, power plants, industrial facilities that we've launched during the epidemic are the greatest indication that we won't stand in the face of any difficulty. All the investments we've made in the process... We have worked tirelessly and tirelessly to achieve our goals, both our beloved nation and the whole world has witnessed. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the important geopolitical risks that the epidemic process has triggered in the past period have brought up an intensive foreign policy agenda for structural testing and trade wars in international institutions. During this period of major transformations, Turkey is an actor, acting with an understanding of the rules of the game, not only in accordance with the rules of the game, but in an active, problem-resolved, table-and-field policy. While our country struggles to build its future safely, it also develops policies that will open the door to peace and prosperity for mankind. In this sense, the world is greater than five. In this sense, Turkey struggles not only for the United Nations Security Council, but for the reorganisation of the entire UN system of rights and equality, starting there. (AK PARTY) Today, there is a Turkey calling out for rights from Libya to Karabağ, from Eastern Mediterranean to Cyprus. In this context, not only our State Department, but Turkey's Grand National Assembly also plays an important role. At different times, under this sacred roof, I find the decisions and declarations made by our opposition and political parties to be very valuable both to our Foreign Office and to show the common will of our nation. Mr. President, good lawmakers, like any public policy, foreign policy can be criticised, but if there is a policy, it is criticised. But when I look at the opposition's remarks, their findings on foreign policy, I'm afraid I don't see a policy proposal. On the contrary, there is nothing but a mass of hysterical, agitated words in the face of instant developments. The opposition supports the steps we take with Libya to protect the blue country, which is a good thing, but there, the U.N. criticises us for being on the side of the people of Libya, friends and brothers, against those who have committed treason in order to remove the legitimate government from the brutal mission. In Azerbaijan, our friends fought an epic battle to save Karabagan from enemy invasion, and we applauded it together. Turkey also stood by its friends with all its determination and all its strength, but the opposition, Turkey, is bringing terrorists from Syria to Karabağ, and even brokering it, has revealed a great lie. Are we not the people of this country, the friends of Azerbaijan, as your friends in the West, or as your brothers? Why did you come up with such a lie as a political suggestion about our country's common interests and interests? For the record and for the record, we are in the same direction today if the great hero Enver Pasha is in Kafkasya, Baku, with what spirit, excitement and ideal. If Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk fought with whatever spirit, excitement and ideal to organize the resistance in Libya, and he started a resistance line of resistance to the Desert Lion until Omar Mukhtar, we went there with the same goal, to contribute with the same direction. Even if times, places, circumstances change, if our destination is our beloved nation, our actions, our steps will never change. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in fact, I'm not going to express this for personal polemics, and it's never been my style to do politics through personal polemics, but it's said here before this session, this fifth arm function. Now, Franco was the first to say it, and this came out during the Spanish-Fransian War. You've got to get past it once. Why? Because some of the issues expressed in the world of thought become conceptual, and from those who say it, they are independent of the circumstances, the conditions that cause it to be said, and they become an understanding for us and for the thinkers. Here's one of the fifth arm activity. I mean, if I'm not a Marxist when I give a seminar on plus value, then it's not necessarily a fascist who says it first. It's a big mistake of thought. But before I got here, how is this fifth arm function defined, what is this concept? The fifth arm function is to perform devastating work by subjecting a population or state to spiritual influence that can't be seized by actual intervention.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0221par0312	Just like you did!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0220par0314	So there are two cars internationally, two basic vehicles, diplomacy and military activity in the field. He's trying to bring countries into certain political positions using these two tools, all the actors are doing it, but unfortunately, now I'm going to give you some examples that might seem abstract to you. Look, now, what is this, not the fifth arm thing? According to rumors, jihadist groups were also sent by Turkey to Azerbaijan. An opposition official says this in the field of foreign policy; it's fifth arm activity, what else? (AK PARTY) Or will we be attacked by the YPG/PKK as our army struggles with great heroism to destroy the terror corridor north of Syria?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0222par0316	He says you can't.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0220par0317	Someone's trying to pull this operation back without using a diplomatic or military instrument, and unfortunately, there are some of the local actors who are using it, knowingly or not.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0223par0319	Mr. Big Shot, here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0220par0320	I'm so sorry. Or let's look at this: the Tripoli administration of the Libyan issue -- which is considered legitimate by the UN -- is the government of the government -- a jihadist government. It's a more reasonable, segregated government, which is the criminal, coupist General Hafter. Why don't we contact them? It's the same when we say, "Why don't we contact them?" All the global forces are trying to force us into a relationship like that. That's the fifth arm activity in an open job. Now, that's how the list goes on, Congressman. We can formulate the opposition's position at this point: So let Erdoğan go, as long as Erdogan goes; we don't care if our national interests are damaged. Whatever Erdogan does, let's not have natural gas, oil, let's not dig these up. As long as Erdogan is gone; let our national tank, our drone, our CIA, let them not work; let us not continue to produce them, let us not develop them. Now, this is a truly sad situation, and our nation really asks for its account, every election.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0224par0324	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0220par0325	That's why the opposition loses every election and comes back here. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm completing it, Mr. President. And the second thing I want to say is, here you go a lot, here you go, here you go, here you go, so that's what's going on, the young are getting away from you, and I'm also running my party's presidency of the Central Youth Corps. (AK PARTY) Look, I mean, this is the most important sign of coming, going, in democracy, the elections, there's no other sign. We'll see who's coming again and who's going on the way to the election -- God willing, there's an election in 2023. But until then, political parties have been trying to organize themselves, telling people what they're going to do when they're in power, telling them what they're going to do, even if they're in power. Look, lawmakers, since June 1st, 363,626 new young people have been admitted to the AK PARTY. (AK PARTY) These are just under-30s teenagers. When we add the women to the main stage, the number is more than a million. I don't understand how we're doing. But, of course, the point of view is important. An opposition official who evaluates this member's work says...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0225par0331	They're not memberships, they're job applications.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0226par0332	Mr. Big Power, are you done?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0220par0333	I'm just finishing up.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0226par0334	Let's finish, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0220par0335	An opposition official who evaluates this says: "Here they go to the EC PARTY to get a job. I mean, municipalities, large municipalities are fired because they are from the AK PARTY, not in our administration. What are you talking about in an atmosphere like this? Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I hope our budget for 2021 brings blessings to our nation. Since I've overstepped my time, I beg your pardon and pay my respects to each and every one of you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0226par0338	Thank you. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0227par0340	Thank you, Mr. President. Hajip has distorted, misinterpreted what I've said here by referring to an assessment of Libya, which I made at the Turkish Grand National Assembly compound. He also distorted and distorted an assessment of our party's spokesman for foreign affairs. Still, he made another taunt by comparing us to his definition of the fifth column. Actually, there's quite a lot of teasing, do you want to hear all about it, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0228par0343	Mr. President, let's take a vote.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0227par0344	Let's do it.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0229par0345	Are there any more?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0227par0346	Yes, Mr. President, I do. We don't care if our national pride is damaged by Turkey's national pride.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0229par0347	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0227par0348	Two minutes... I have a right to personal abuse, and I have a right to the group, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0229par0349	It's all in there.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0227par0350	How do we do that?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0229par0351	You'll do it.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0227par0352	I see you're tolerant today, I hope you don't spare me.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0229par0353	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0227par0357	Thank you. There's an injustice here, too, so he's giving you ten minutes, if you can answer in two minutes. Now, first of all, I'll tell you -- which one should I answer to -- if you accuse the Republican People's Party of national interests, you'll be ungrateful, and I'll say it on every occasion. In addition, the AK PARTY has a tradition and feature: AK PARTY is stuck, its reputation, its trust in society is erosion; the AK PARTI is immediately wrapped up in a headdress, such as it is, which will open up a matter once and for all time.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0230par0361	Who figured it out?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0227par0362	The AK PARTY gets stuck, and it immediately embraces the values of the people, the values of the people it has forgotten, the values of the people it has starved.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0231par0363	We always embrace values.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0227par0364	The AK PARTI gets stuck, forgets his days with terrorist organizations, criminalizes people, and the AK PARTI gets stuck: Wow, that's what you're saying. You think these people are ignorant? How can you make such a mockery of this nation's intelligence? I stand by what I said. On that day, I said, "Our old friend Libyan people, do not send soldiers there when their children are fighting among themselves." What's wrong with that? I repeat the same thing.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0232par0367	Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0227par0368	But the same CHP also did this: we came in the economic zone, the sea jurisdiction agreement, we said yes, we owe it to all of us to protect the rights and interests of Turkey in the Eastern Mediterranean.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0233par0369	He said that, too.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0227par0370	The issue of Azerbaijan: Friends, Recep Erdogan said one day, in here or in the group: "Thank God, I don't mean to criticize Mr. Recep - my children didn't have a lawful bite in their throats." Shall we believe that?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0234par0372	Mr. Altay, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0227par0373	The U.N.F. has issued a sincere warning that he has forgotten the momentary, live broadcast.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0235par0374	That's not what happened, Mr. President, that's not what happened.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0227par0375	In Azerbaijan's righteous case, he warned our brothers and sisters in the international community in Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) not to cast a shadow on Turkey's righteous struggle. Not only is Azerbaijan yours, but everyone in this House, friendship, law. (CHEERING) So this flag isn't just yours, it's everyone's.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0235par0376	Mr. President, the U.N.A. Apologies...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0236par0377	Mr. Sagittarius, please...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0227par0378	You're not just patriots, you're not just lovers of the interests of the nation, of the interests of the country, but I'll tell you something else while I'm out on this occasion, there's a short period of time: the age of custody is this custody debate; custody is a bad thing, and a search for what's coming. I'm partially accepting the old custody, and she's right, Miss Miss Özlem. He had military custody in this country, thank God we're dead. This is not just your success, but the success of the Republican People's Party and other parties. Those who talk to me will be in trouble.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0235par0379	He's right.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0227par0380	There was a problem with the trial, thank God... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm gonna need 30 seconds, 30 seconds.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0237par0383	Is it over, Mr. Altay?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0227par0384	If you'll just give me the last 30 seconds, I'll make a commitment, thank you. Do you know what replaced military custody? Mafia got it, Mafia got it. The congregations replaced the custody of the judiciary, and the cults took over. This is worse and worse than that. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0238par0392	Now, on behalf of the administration, I promise Mr. Fuat Oktay. Here you are, Mr. Oktay. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 60 minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0239par0396	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the General Assembly of our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation, who are monitoring budget talks at the beginning of their screens, with respect and conversation. We are now nearing the end of the negotiations in our Veteran Assembly on October 21st, starting with the Plan and Budget Commission, the 2021 Years Central Management Budget Law and the 2019 Central Management Act Proposals. At the beginning of my words, I give grace to the Lord, who turned death into a wedding, in the year 747. We shared our budget and final account with the most transparent form of both the Commission and the General Assembly, representing details of the basis and objectives of our budget. We have answered the questions that have been raised by you by lawmakers with precision. Throughout the budget talks, we have encountered things that were sometimes repeated over and over and over and over and over again, and the answer is as clear as day, even though -- although that is -- is not to be understood. I'm afraid sometimes we've seen the debates here move outside the General Assembly and be personalized. In fact, by cutting the level extremely low, there have been some who have been relentlessly trying to assassinate our President, my own and our ministers.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0240par0400	Neither were the ministers, Mr. Vice President, nor were the ministers.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0239par0401	I'm not going to use the same level, mean language, of course. (AK PARTY) Everyone does what they do for themselves, but I can't help but say that the representatives of Dictator Franco (Dictator Franco) in Turkey, tried to slander and slander our President, and they dared. (APPLAUSE) First, let's be clear: Franco is living in CHP today; he lives in you, not us.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0240par0403	Shame on you, shame on you! The free has said less, and the less he says it!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0241par0404	Behave, behave!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0239par0405	Recep Tayyip Erdogan is local and national, a man of the nation.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0241par0406	Get over it, get over it!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0239par0407	He takes power and power from his people. God trusts him, and he is with his people, and he does not need anyone else. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) He hasn't made a pass at any of the wards until today, and we won't be able to pass through or give out after that. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have also brought some of the most important issues to our nation during our meeting. We've all got our notes here, and we're going to be followers for our nation. We said, and we will be. Again, we've corrected the right wrongs here. We talked about how we made the budget more efficient for a stronger, more prosperous Turkey, with the programme budget system. In its main lines, we have again demonstrated our new structural reform efforts to help the 2021 budget reach its goals, and our vision of progress as the Cumhur Alliance, which we will continue to reflect on the ground of national understanding. The budget negotiations we've been working together since October 21st have been one of the inter-agency mechanisms of balance and balance between forces, which the presidential government has made clearer, and we've tried to explain it, and we've explained it. We answer to our people in budget talks, and we share our road map with our citizens as an executive. What did we do last year, and in what direction will we use the 2021 budget? We gave extensive answers to the questions. As we talked about it, the same questions were asked over and over again. There are often those who try to mislead our nation by covering their ears with answers and ignoring the facts. You said public-private cooperation, we told you. You said the Tank Palet Factory, we explained. You criticised them, we expressed them again, and we explained them one by one. You said one man, the government of the presidency doesn't work. You said, "We've explained it over and over again, we've explained it." We already know that your purpose is not to eat grapes; you are eager to beat the farmer, and we know that. There's a wedding in the neighborhood, we don't go if they don't. You're saying that, as far as we can tell. We say, "We will not turn away from our way, even if you are averse, and you do not respond to our call to be united." [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Look, guys, from the day the budget talks started in the Plan and Budget Commission...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0242par0413	People, open, open, open!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0239par0414	I've just said here, as the same questions are being repeated, while we've been here continuing budget negotiations, in the meantime, just in the meantime, what have we done that we haven't stopped as a government? I'll tell you about them, some of them. It's just that during the budget talks, while we're fighting with Covid, on the other hand, we're working on new investments under the leadership of our President...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0242par0415	People, open, open, open!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0239par0416	I'm just going to count a few again. I'm just going to count a few, and I'm going to count it whether you don't see it or not.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0243par0418	Guys, don't shout, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0239par0419	We've completed and opened the yellowkamis-Karakurt-Horasan road between Kars-Erzurum. From our city of Serhat to the other side of our country, to Tekirdağ. Tekirdağ Dr. Ismail Fehmi, we completed the city hospital and opened it again.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0244par0421	What money did you do it with?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0239par0422	With our city hospital, Tekirdağ, our total number of city hospitals has reached 13.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0245par0423	How much did you do it for? How much?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0239par0424	We've given you details about that in the past, which is why I'm telling you, you don't hear everything we tell you. I've told you the details, I've told you the details in previous interviews. Look, you're saying you don't get it again, so what do I do? And when you say that, you get upset. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Education, health and infrastructure in Malatya and Kopeli, which also includes many investments in the industry, the opening of the Kahramanmarash-Greece road, the openings of ASELSAN technology facilities to strengthen the design and production infrastructure of our local and national technologies, which, by the way, began production as of yesterday. Good luck to the industry of cognac and to our country. (EC PARTY Applause) I continue, just in this time -- the first national helicopter engine, the delivery of TEI-TS1400.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0246par0427	It didn't work.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0239par0428	You'll be pleased, but it worked, even if you're upset. And you'll see, not only in Turkey, but in other countries in the world now, you'll see how we export those engines. You'll see that no matter what action anyone does to us, there's no effect at all from now on. You may be upset, but we will continue to do so. Don't stop, keep moving! [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We've developed the first domestic and national air defence system, HESAR-A+, again, with ASELSAN and ROKETSAN regardless of sanctions. What happened? They didn't give us a part of it, a critical part of it, we developed it and we did it. And from now on, it will be. Again, it's not over. We've prepared our national space program road map that will bring our country's bar into space and allow us to exist in space now, and we're putting it into practice. Our president will be sharing this programme with you and our nation very soon. We also completed the Samsun-Sivas Iron Road Substructure Renovation Project. Samsun knows our art politics.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0247par0433	There's no applause.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0239par0434	I'm going from the Black Sea to the Mediterranean. I'm moving on to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, where we've always been with a national case. Look, we've completed the Emergency Hospital of Nicosia in 45 days, not Turkey, which will cure the Turkish Cypriots. And again, Mr. President went to the island and opened it himself. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] There's more, the Presidential Symphony Orchestra Concert Hall. And we've done it again, and we've done it again in this period. These are just a few of the projects we've completed in these two months.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0248par0437	Don't stop, keep moving!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0239par0438	Again, in that time, we didn't abandon our tradesmen, our tourists, our employers. We've expanded our financial support for the fight against the epidemic, and we've extended the duration of the VAT reductions we've already implemented until June 1st. We've continued our fight against terrorism in and out of the country, uncompromising and uninterrupted. We supported Can Azerbaijan's victory in Karabakh with all our means. There's a lot more than that in the last two months, but our time is limited, so I've only been able to count a few. You know, you know, here, like this, when you were laying paper rolls on the floor, we saw that you didn't get your share of the digital transformation that we pioneered.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0249par0439	You read it on paper.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0239par0440	I mean, we've seen you still dealing with the papers.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0250par0441	You're reading from the paper.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0239par0442	I'll just tell you this:
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0251par0443	What's in front of you, what's in front of you? What's in front of you, be afraid of God!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0239par0444	...what we've done in these two months...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0251par0445	Fear God!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0252par0446	Don't read it on paper.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0253par0447	Turn those papers off.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0254par0448	...if we put it on your papers, it won't get from here to your desks alone.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0255par0449	Fear God!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0254par0450	Look, I'll tell you, from here, it's not just your lines, it's all the way from here to Fizan.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0256par0452	Mr. President, shall we take the papers from your front?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0254par0453	In addition, you see, all over Turkey, again, in many different areas, we share the investment in co-existence, one after the other, to serve our citizens. As our President always stated, ritual is a business; that's the way we work. The wordmaker and the artmaker know how to separate and separate our people.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0257par0455	I hope he knows.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0256par0456	You can see it going.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0254par0457	You keep talking, we'll keep working for our people. Once again, no stopping...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0258par0458	Keep robbing.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0254par0459	...go ahead. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Yeah, guys, look, we're listening, we're listening, we're listening, we're not making any noise. I don't know why you're getting so excited.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0259par0462	They're excited to see you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0254par0463	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our budget has the content of our country's integrity, the unity of our nation, and the power of our state even higher. Our budget will be the basis of our development goals, stability, and efforts to improve the welfare of our country. We rely on our budget, on the dynamism of the presidential government's system for public functioning, and on the will to develop under the leadership of our President. We rely on our industrialists who produce values in Turkey and all over the world, our health workers who fight the epidemic with sacrifice, and our engineers who beat our country in national technology. (EC PARTY) We rely on our farmers, our tradesmen, our young men, our women, our workers, our scientists, every member of our nation, including our citizens living abroad. Our nation believes and believes that our government will raise Turkey with all its staff, especially our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan. It is also a sign that we have been given the authority to budget for the 19th time. We haven't let that trust go to waste in the past, and we won't let it go to waste after that. We will continue to deliver from health to education, security to security, and to implement concrete and dynamic policies on the basis of our budget, under the leadership of our President, from industry to the economy. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we've gone out to run public services, and we're looking at a result-oriented approach. The programme, which is the best budgeting system for our government's development perspective, is in this direction to further strengthen the bond between public services and public resources. The performance-based programme system, transparency and accountability that we've implemented in the 2021-year budget has highlighted. The programme continues to use analytic budget rating as part of the budget, allowing all financial statistics produced in the previous budget system to continue to go public. The budget of 2021 was prepared in line with education to health, agriculture, tourism to industry, our country's development goals and future vision. We are objectively approaching the concept of priority in public service. We are careful to allocate resources to everything our citizens need in a maximum and most qualified way. We've spent $211.4 billion in education for our children and young people, $238 billion in health care for our citizens, $42.4 billion for our farmers, 81.2 billion in social benefits, $50.6 billion in real estate benefits, $22.7 billion for our pensioners' holiday bonuses, and 9.3 billion in support of the loan use of our citizens, especially our tradesman. The budget for 2021 is the budget for increasing social justice. In this scope, we allocate about $16 billion, $2.1 billion in social and economic support for non-payment costs, and about 11 billion in revenues for the Fund for Social Aid and Solidarity. The budget of 2021 is a budget that will be disadvantaged and will support all areas that require special care. In this scope, we have earmarked $12.7 billion for pensions connected to elderly people over the age of 65 and disabled, $10.6 billion for home care support, $554m for maternity aid. You know, where's the pensioner in this budget, where's the tradesman? Well, here's the answer: the shopkeeper's here, and the farmer's here, and the pensioner's here.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0260par0471	If the tradesman is satisfied, there's nothing wrong with us, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0254par0472	If you don't want to see it, if you don't have the eyes to see it, if you don't see it, we have nothing to do with it, our citizens, our people see it.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0260par0474	If the tradesman is pleased, we'd be happy, Mr. Vice President, if the tradesman is pleased, we'd be pleased.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0254par0475	In the budget, our main priority, again, is to see revenues collected in a fair way, with a sense of service to a citizen. Let me make it very clear: With the legal and administrative regulations that we've made so far, we've been especially concerned about the women we've tried to strengthen in all aspects of social life. As the budget for the year 2021 was being prepared, we created the Women's Enforcement Program for our women. We've made the direct source for women visible in the budget. In this regard, we have increased the budget for strengthening women by 19.8 per cent in 2021. I've only told you about the increase in share in our Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services, which we've reserved to strengthen the woman. There's still a legal dimension to this. We have KADES to practice One Touch Against violence, and she has economic strengthening. When it comes to women's rights and words and so-called barbecues, if they're a little bit sincere about it, our governments will give us the right to the distance we've made in our time, but is there any hope that this right will be delivered? We don't have any hope because there are people in their own organization who can't even afford to account for the abuse and abuse of women. There are those who cover what happened and try to legitimize it.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0261par0477	Mr. Secretary, tell me about the Ensar Foundation.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0254par0478	You're used to sticking the needle and the sack in someone else. These things must be done wherever they may be, we must all do what is necessary.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0262par0480	Izmir Kemalpaşa... say that too.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0263par0481	Make a statement for Kemalpaşa. Make a statement for Kemalpaşa, then speak to us.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0254par0482	There's no band, no party, no nothing. We have to go all the way.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0262par0484	Sing Kemalpaşa, sing it.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0263par0485	Make a statement for Kemalpaşa. Here's a sentence for Kemalpaşa.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0264par0486	Dear Altay... friends...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0265par0487	On the other hand, there are those who are in the grip of terror, who don't speak a single day to our daughters, our women, who make mothers cry, who separate a brother from a brother.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0266par0488	You can't say our women, it's an insult to women. You can't say that women are not property.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0264par0489	Keep your masks on, fellas, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0266par0490	Women are not property, correct the statement.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0491	While you're here making charming remarks and comfortable...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0266par0492	Women are nobody's property, correct the statement.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0493	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0266par0494	You said our women, we are not property. Women are not property, correct your statement.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0495	How precious women are to us; we come from values that kiss the feet of our women, of our mothers. We know him very well. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] While you're comfortable with what you're saying here, while you're comfortable with what you're saying, the women you say you're a representative of, the children are wasted in the hands of terror.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0266par0498	You're the ones who live in palaces. You're the ones who live comfortably in palaces.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0499	Maybe you have relatives, relatives, friends from the neighborhood.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0268par0500	Tell me about the boys in the back.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0501	Why don't you speak up to those who have taken smaller children from their mothers' bosoms and given them to the treacherous PKK? If you say women's rights, why don't you speak to these women, these children?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0269par0502	Pay for the children you killed in Roboski.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0503	Have you wiped the tears out of the eyes of the mothers of Diyarbakir for one day? Did you ask why you're crying, why you've been waiting here for months? Did you ask?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0269par0505	Give an account to the children of Emine Şenyahar. First, answer for the children of Emine Şenyahar.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0506	You don't have the guts to ask. You can't ask, you don't have the guts. We don't really expect you to be the voice of all women.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0269par0507	We are the voice of women, you are the voice of the palace.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0508	I told you at the beginning of my speech, everyone does what suits them. We're fighting for it again.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0269par0509	We have not forgotten Ceylan Önkol, Uður Kaymaz.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0510	To keep our women and children from falling into the hands of treacherous terrorist organizations.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0269par0512	We're not your property. You can't say our women. Women are not property.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0270par0513	Guys, please, there's nothing wrong with yelling like that. That's not the way to negotiate. Please...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0514	...but we're still fighting, and we're gonna keep fighting.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0269par0516	Women are not property, correct your statement. Women are not your property.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0517	We secure our women by law, secure them legally, mobilise our security forces when necessary.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0269par0518	Women are nobody's property.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0271par0519	Why don't you tell me how you look for women naked?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0520	You don't wear catch badges, you don't wear keyboard boys.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0272par0522	White trolls, white!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0523	According to OECD data, Turkey is the country that has increased its level of participation in women's labor. Between 2002, 2003-2020, the country is ranked first among the OECD and EU-27 countries, raising women's employment by 66.5 per cent.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0272par0524	Where? Which Turkey? You're talking about the fantasy world.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0525	We, the woman's education in women's abuse, in preventing child abuse...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0273par0526	What did you do to the Ensar Foundation? Why did you protect the Ensar Foundation?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0527	We will continue to do our part in the leadership of our President in matters of employment, decision-making and participation in the administration. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, again, during both the day and all of these talks, there have been a number of economic-oriented evaluations. In this regard, in fact, from the early days of 2021, we're going to talk about this again in very concrete steps, but I'd like to share, once again, our macroeconomic vision. During the year 2020, almost the single focus of the global economic agenda has been the effects of the epidemic. Finance and monetary policies were mobilized to protect the lives of citizens, support employment and economic activity, along with all possible tools. With all this support, in the third quarter of the year, there was a certain recovery all over the world and a process of normalisation. In recent months, there has been a period in the world, unfortunately, when the epidemic has again risen, and we are living as Turkey, which has affected the economy in a negative way, particularly in the service sector. On the other hand, the start of concrete results in vaccine studies strengthens the prospects for global recovery. In this context, mass inoculations have begun in many countries, and it's about to begin...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0274par0531	When does it start with us?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0532	...and it looks like it's going to be fast with the year 2021. From the spring of 2021, economies are expected to be revived. Mr. President, in an environment where the Covid-19 epidemic continues, our economy has been one of the highest growing economies on a global scale in the third quarter of 2020.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0274par0534	When's the vaccine?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0535	With the help of effective practices to support our economy in the face of the epidemic, Turkey's economy has grown by 6.7 per cent year-on-year. While all main sectors show high growth, 9.2 per cent growth in private consumption spending, as well as an increase in investments by 22.5 per cent is remarkable. In the third quarter of the year, economic activity has begun, indicating that growth will be positive this year. That's the difference between us. We'll all see that we're separated by positive growth from all over the world. No matter how negative a picture you try to display as opposition, no matter how negative a photograph, the sun will not be covered with clay.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0274par0536	When's the vaccine? 250 people die every day.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0275par0537	That's for everyone to decide, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0538	People are already making up their minds, we're offering the 19th budget. Preliminary indicators for the last quarter of 2020 show that the economic recovery continues. The Industrial Production Index rose by 10.2 per cent compared to the same period of the previous year, much higher than expected 7.5 per cent in October.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0276par0540	Again with the fairy tales.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0541	Production industry capacity use has been stable since April, and has been at 75.3 as of November, making it the highest since March. The unemployment rate gradually declined to 12.7 per cent in September. We've managed to lead our country to a path of growth, even during the global epidemic that happens every hundred years. Remember the old Turkey. If there was a breeze in the world, if there was a breeze, there would be a storm in our country, and today there is a Turkey on solid ground. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, under the economic measures we've been implementing since the first days of the outbreak, we've been directly spending $40 billion from the budget to our citizens and entrepreneurs. We've postponed the tax payment at about $30 billion and the payment of the SGK at $40 billion. We've provided a tax reduction of $15 billion under VAT discounts for certain sectors and a job-rent discount. In addition, by increasing the resources provided by the Credit Guarantee Fund, we offered an interest-funded loan to our tradesman, artist and merchant. In this framework, the amount of financial measures we have implemented to support various parts of our society is $551 billion; it has also exceeded that, over $551 billion (Applause from the AKP PARTI) at our President's presidency's cabinet meeting on Monday (December 14th 2020), which we agreed to continue by expanding the financial measures under the economic impacts of the Covid-19 epidemic, so that's not enough. We extended the duration of such practices as the currently underwent layoffs and tax reductions until 1 June 2021. We also provided three months of income loss and rent support for our directly affected tradesman.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0277par0543	How much? How much?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0544	We've already told you, but you don't understand. I mean, we've told you so many times, we've told you that. Guys, what can I do? You're making me say it.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0278par0545	Tell the AK PARTY, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0546	We've said it, we've said it many times. It's going to go on. Our shopkeeper hears it, our citizen hears it, don't worry, he knows it. We're getting feedback from them.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0279par0547	You're giving me $33 a day.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0548	We've also supported the tradesman who was directly affected by restrictions, but we're also providing a total of $5 billion grant to our citizens and tradesmen. From now on, we will continue to be with our additional support packages, our merchants, our business people, our taxi drivers, our tailors, our barbers, all our tradesmen.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0279par0550	Give me a number, number!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0551	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers increased inflationist pressures in 2020 with rising unit costs due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the cumulative foreign currency dry effects. In November, the Central Bank imposed a strong financial tightening in order to ensure price stability in the face of inflation improvements and expectations.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0280par0552	In Amasya, tractors are being impounded.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0553	The fight against inflation will be firmly supported by monetary policy steps, finance policies and financial sector policies. The country's risk premium has been marked by significant setbacks, while the portfolio currents for our country have also been increasing. Despite the harsh conditions of the epidemic, our banking sector maintains its strong structure. With our economic policies, macroeconomic conditions will be made more suitable. We're determined to enter a post-infected and competitive structure. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have quickly recovered from the normalisation process since March 2020, when exports were negatively affected by the outbreak. As a matter of fact, our exports increased by 1.6 per cent in June-November during the same period as the previous year. In the same period, imports increased by 10.9 per cent due to gold imports that were strong. We continue with the first step programme for exports in 81 counties to spread to a broad base of export activities, and we continue to work towards the start of exporting our KOBİ, which is particularly capable of producing throughout the country. On the other hand, we support our KOBIs by the hands of EXIMBANK to increase export opportunities. Due to global travel restrictions, the decline in tourism revenues has been one of the main reasons for the increase in current transactions. To compensate for the damage done to our tourism sector, we've launched the Safe Tourism Certification Programme, which is also shown as an example in the world. In addition, we postponed the housing tax practice to 2022, and we carried out a lot of support packages. So we closed 2020 with a lot less loss than our competitors in tourism. All of these measures and the potential of our economy indicate that in the coming period, we will see a reduced trend in the current account deficit. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we are taking judicial reform as a priority, since we are aware that the legal and economic fields are not independent elements in improving the investment climate. We will carry out judicial reform without delay in co-operation with our partners in a way that will ensure economic confidence again. As part of improving the business and investment environment, we will also simplify tax legislation, providing efficiency in incentives and support, and again setting principles and foundations for support programmes. We will support domestic and innovative production in order to achieve sustainable growth by increasing efficiency. He spoke of a race run by lions and gazelles, Mr. Sener of the CHP. He's entered numbers, he's done a lot of calculations, he's shared data, I'm not in a position to count them all, and my time is not available, so let me just access a few of his accounts.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0281par0558	It's still 20 minutes away.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0559	He talked about unregistered employment, and he said that our time had gone up a lot, so we looked at how much it had increased. In 2002, there was 52.1 per cent of unregistered employment. We looked at how much in September 2020, and you know how many friends, 32.2 percent. The math's wrong again. Wrong count again. So you find the difference: 52.1 percent minus 32.2 percent. We've recovered, Mr. Sener.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0282par0560	People can't hire anymore so they can run it off the books. Oh, don't you see that?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0283par0561	Are there Syrians here, too, the Syrians?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0562	Another example, your export... you said not to go to the 2000s until the 70s. You said, "It's much worse." We said, "Allah Allah." So we knew that there was progress, and we were happy as a nation. We thought we were doing something wrong. Let's see, not in the 2000s, in the 90s, in the 80s, or even in the 70s. We said we don't need to go all the way to the 70s. Do you know how much export was in 80? It was $2.9 billion. So, what's 2019? $180.8 billion right before Covid. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Our nation knows the difference between $2.9 billion and $180.8 billion, which makes the account very comfortable, but Mr. Sener said, "No, not only that, but look at the odds. Look at the ratios, then you'll see.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0284par0565	Compare it to the others, Mr. Secretary. You're saying another account. The volume of commerce in the world is already increasing.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0285par0566	Compare it to other countries.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0567	And we thought, let's see, there's a difference here. Well, just because there's a difference here, we thought we'd take a look at the odds. In 1980, exports were 3.2 per cent. We said that if it went up to 180, if it got worse, our national income would be... I mean, we'd actually be happy again, it'd be tremendously increased, it'd be a lot higher. Look, we've looked at the proportions; the rate of exports in 1980 was 3.2 per cent, do you know how much in 2019? 23.8%. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Oh, you want us to tell you the difference? I mean, should we tell him if this is a setback or progress?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0286par0569	People don't have money in their pockets, they're in people's pockets.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0570	Look, now that you're running off to other areas, what do I do? Give it to me, we'll talk till morning, we'll tell you all about it. No, there's no need to be an accountant. [[Noises from CHP rows]] I've told you before, look, CHP has a problem with miscalculation, the opposition has a problem with miscalculation. You said, "Strike and watering." Agricultural support payments have increased by 12 times in the last 18 years. The budget for agricultural support, which was $1.8 billion in 2002, was set at $22 billion in 2020. (CHP rows) The increase rate of agricultural support in 2020 is 37 per cent compared to 2019. In November 2003-2020, real payments were totalled at $311 billion.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0287par0574	180 billion...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0575	You said "watering." As for watering, we thought we were doing a lot of work. We were wondering if they were virtual, and we checked them again.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0287par0577	Ankara.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0578	Look, as for watering, we bought Turkey with 276 dams in 2002, bringing it to the 876 dam as of today. Shall we tell you what the difference is? (CHP rows) Look, we've built underground dams, and we're going to keep building them, and we're going to keep building them. If you want, we can tell you what these are and what these underground dams are.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0288par0580	Guys, as long as the account's quiet, not by yelling.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0581	Yeah, and we saw something else today, and we were surprised at him, and we felt something like a private equity feud, and we thought maybe we got it wrong, and hopefully we got it wrong.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0289par0582	You've got it all wrong, you've got it all wrong.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0583	When we come to the capital, we're going to nationalize these investments, we're going to shut them down, we're going to do, I don't know...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0289par0584	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0585	So you know what that means, what you're saying? Let me sum it up, in a language that our nation understands and all of us understand; you say: "When we come to power, we, again, will make all of this KIT. "
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0290par0586	No, he'll use it for free. We call it free.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0291par0587	It's not just that...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0588	Look, I mean, because you don't know the account book, because you can't manage it, because of the damage you've done, because of the CSI, do you think our nation has forgotten about those CSIs, public banks? No, our people haven't forgotten any of it, and they won't.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0292par0590	You've ruined the country, the country!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0267par0592	I want to call out to the young people from here, to the Y generation, to the Z generation; they may not be able to revive what I mean when I say.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0293par0594	You sold the country, the country!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0294par0595	The Z generation knows better than you! They're well-bred children. You're insulting the Z generation! Enter the Internet, the KCE, or the Public Economic Initiatives, and run a scan like this. You're insulting the Z generation!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0295par0598	Mr. Altay, please...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0296par0599	You'll know exactly what I mean; you can do it if you want.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0295par0600	Mr. Altay, please... this is no choir talk; solo, solo debate.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0297par0601	Is that all right, sir? So you think Z generation is ignorant? Let the public know that the Vice President is accusing the Z generation of ignorance. What a shame, what a shame!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0295par0602	Mr. Altay, please...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0298par0603	Another subject, again today, was another subject that we heard so much about, so interestingly, that we were surprised to hear it as well, are we hearing it wrong? I mean, we saw an IMF crush today. You had the country in need of the IMF.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0297par0605	MHP did, MHP! Look, your partner did, your partner did. Tell it there, tell it there, tell it there!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0298par0606	You've been begging for money for years, borrowing money. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Recep Tayyip Erdogan and AK PARTY, who paid off the IMF's debts and saved Turkey forever from the IMF. Yeah, say thank you. Our nation knows very well how you and the IMF met secretly in hotel lobbys. (CHP rows) Once again, I'm telling you to relax. The IMF period is closed, the IMF period is closed, my friends. Turkey has already put those days behind us. You answered to the IMF; we cut the accounts, cut the accounts, and asked the IMF to account. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) We're going to change the regime and the system. I'm telling you again, with this accountability and ineptness, you can take this system back to the eras of public banks, which have gone down from mission losses, from wrong administrations.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0299par0609	President of the EPDK...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0298par0610	The longing to take the country back to the 1940s to the Chief of the Nationals, our nation will not or will not allow you to do so anyway.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0300par0611	You don't remember the National Chief...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0298par0612	Mr. Sener, I want to thank you for one thing. Congratulations on having the late master Necip Fazil applauded the CHP's ranks.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0301par0614	You also applaud Nazim Hikmet.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0298par0615	I want to give you credit. The Master's verses, I mean, they were really beautiful and meaningful.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0301par0616	You applauded Nazim for years.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0298par0617	Again, for the opposition, I repeat from the transcripts of Mr. Sener. Years have passed, and you've been skating. You're flying kites in the unknown sky. We're running like lions, very fast. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, in 2020...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0302par0620	Lions, tigers, story on!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0298par0621	When there's no answer, what are they gonna do this time, they're gonna try to make it personal?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0303par0622	Go on with the story, masala.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0298par0623	I mean, we're sorry about that, but I'm not going down that road.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0304par0625	People are waiting for a cure, a cure!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0298par0626	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, as in the 18 years we left behind in 2020, were led by our President in the field and at the table...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0304par0627	The opposition doesn't say "talk about it." People are waiting for a cure! Do your duty. Your job is to create a cure, not to address the opposition from there!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0305par0628	What did you give the farmer?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0306par0629	Guys, please, let's leave it at that.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0307par0630	...an active, human foreign policy.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0308par0631	But let him speak properly, the President, without taunting.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0306par0632	Mr. Sertel, please, I don't remember promising you anything.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0308par0633	But let him speak without taunting, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0306par0634	There's someone on the stand, talking.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0308par0635	Mr. President, let him speak without taunting.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0306par0636	According to what, according to what clause, did you take the promise? This isn't right! Please...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0308par0638	Shall we ask him... and let him speak of Yimpash, and let him speak of Yimpash?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0306par0639	Everyone appreciates what they're going to say.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0309par0640	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we're taking power from the presidential government system and we're taking immediate action in the face of any recent development that concerns our national interests. There are critics of the decisive attitude we follow in solving problems in our country's surrounding geography. These circles ignore the responsibilities of our history and geography. In solving problems, we always put diplomacy first. And when it comes to it, we're never afraid to do what's necessary in the field. As a result of this firm stance, the whole world realized today that there could be no progress without Turkey or Turkey in many regional issues. The actors of foreign policy, including the United States, the EU and Russia, actually know what cooperation means with us, what Turkey and its cooperation mean. Instead of unjust sanctions or scenarios, they've seen and lived that the negotiations serve our common interests more than they've done, and they'll see and live after today. Our steps in Syria have prevented a corridor of terror from forming on our borders, praise be to God. We have secured the security of the Syrian people in both our citizens and the region under our control. We also opened the way for political solution initiatives in Syria, which are essential to the safe and honorable return of the Syrians we have hosted in our country. Our support for the legitimate government in Libya has prevented more brotherly blood from being spilled. We will continue to be with our Libyan brothers from military cooperation to trade, from education to energy in many areas. As you know, Operation Irini in the Eastern Mediterranean has become an open embargo for Libyan government. Sooner or later, a pirate in the Mediterranean will get his answer from us, and sooner or later, he will get his answer from us. History tells us that the fate of pirates is not good. Everyone reaps what they sow. Those who try to corner our country in the Mediterranean with various kinds of salvos will fall into the pit they dig. One by one, we'll disrupt the games against Turkey, as it has been so far. We did not, we will not, we will not, we will not, we will not, we will not, we will not have the rights of our country and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. There are two dimensions in the eastern Mediterranean that are equally important to us. One is to protect our country's rights to the continent. The second is that the island is guaranteed the rights and interests of the Turkish Cypriot, including natural resources around Cyprus. Our national drilling and seismic research ships continue to operate in our own continental territory, as well as in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus's license zones. The same way we discovered natural gas in the Black Sea, we'll find energy sources in the eastern Mediterranean. As for Cyprus, Turkish Cypriots have clearly reflected their will for a two-state solution in the last presidential election. The Turkish nation has never left the Turkish Cypriots alone in the fight for equal sovereignty, nor will they ever again. It is not possible to forget past injustices, persecutions, or to ignore the games that are being played today. The international community must stop ignoring the Turkish Cypriot. Once again, I speak to the international community, especially the EU, from our Veterans Assembly: Do you think the embargos, including basic human rights, including transportation to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, will go on like this? I want to shout from here one more time that we won't let that happen. Until when will you ignore the presence of the Turkish Cypriot on the island? I want to shout from here one more time that we won't let that happen. Although the international community is blind and deaf in their conscience, we cannot leave the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus alone, we cannot leave. The closed Maraş will remain closed. They said, "What happened?" Now it's opening, we're opening.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0310par0645	Let's open it all up. Maras is the land of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and is lawful to the Turkish Cypriots as his mother's milk. Let's open them all together, hopefully. That's how we do it, that's what we want to do. Of course, that's what we want.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0311par0648	We wish to work together. So our rebellion, our thing, is from here. We'll see that we're stronger together when we're united.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0310par0649	You've got 13 planes, you can't find us two seats, you can't find two seats on your way to Cyprus.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0311par0650	And let's not forget, in fact, that a large part of Marash is an Ottoman foundation. Abdullah Paşa Foundation, Lala Mustafa Pasha Foundation, Bilal Agha Foundation; International law has immunity for foundation property. Despite the fact that the KKTC has kept its own land, the Maras, a sign of goodwill to the solution, it has been unreachable for forty-six years. Maraş, the pearl of Cyprus, remains at large. On the basis of international law, however, it was possible to open it to the rights of its rightful owners. Turkey has been there unconditionally for the breaking of this status quo. Because we know that the resuscitation of this ghost city will be an important embarrassment to the political solution to the Cyprus issue. In this direction, we supported the inventory and consultations of the KKTC (KKTC) in the closed Marash region. We have been with our ministries and local governments, and we will continue to be with the Turkish Cypriots to return to the old days of Marash. We have done this as a joint political decision by the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, which rejects the irresistibility caused by the unilateral interest of the Greek Cypriots. One of the number-one beaches of the world is no longer closed. Maraş, Turkish Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot are in use of parks on the beach and coast, streets and streets. With the completion of ongoing processes, I hope we will all see the days when he has found life altogether. This will also bring value in tourism as well as in the political vision it brings to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and will bring serious economic gains. The solution, I don't say new to the island since 1571 - will come with the strong will of the Turkish Cypriot, the main element, and the support of Turkey. As long as there's will, there's a solution to everything, and we have willpower, praise be to God. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We will continue our struggle to make the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus an equal member of the political and economic system. In addition, we stood by Can Azerbaijan in the battle of sovereignty in Karabağ. The toad represents a glorious victory now. The flag of Azerbaijan is flying in Karabağ today. We were not the ones who surrendered our Azerbaijan brothers to the killers at Boraltan Bridge, who took refuge in our country, like the Inönu period CHP. (ARK PARTY APPLAUSE, NOISES IN CHP CENTURY) We've made up for the embarrassment that one party left our nation at Boraltan Bridge, in our position on Karabag, and we've made up for it for all of us. That's what suits our nation.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0312par0654	You didn't sting the Azerbaijan flag at the stadium in the Armenia match.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0313par0655	Sacrifice to the Innu, sacrifice to the victim!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0311par0656	In 2020, when humanity was tested by a global problem, the entire world shut down, Turkey took on its citizens as well as presented the best examples of international solidarity.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0312par0657	You didn't sting the Azerbaijan flag at the stadium in the Armenia match.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0311par0658	Once again, you seem uncomfortable, but we don't understand why you're uncomfortable.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0314par0659	That's because you're disrespecting the Inönun.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0315par0660	You can't disrespect the Inönun. It's not your place!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0311par0661	In addition to providing medical assistance to more than 150 nations and many international organisations, we have brought over 100,000 citizens safely into our country. I mean, why didn't we get that when you should be proud of it? [[Noises from CHP rows]] In 2021, we will continue to implement the most effective foreign policy to protect our national interests and contribute to regional, global peace under the leadership of our President. Today there's a Turkey that speaks its own words, makes its own way, and walks in its own way. We've always been on the side of communication, diplomacy, not one-sided sanctions that would damage relationships. We believe that both our region and the world need sustainable cooperation, especially not embargoes during this epidemic. As always, in the interests of our nation, we will continue to be on the side of my flood.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0316par0664	Close the figirlik, İncirlik.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0311par0665	We have no fear of sanctions, sanctions. There's no Turkey left for sanctions anymore. It is not sanctions, but Turkey's friendship that will win.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0317par0668	Mr. Oktay, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0311par0669	Every country that excludes Turkey will have a narrowing range of movement in the region. I, once again, strongly condemn this wrongfully sanctioned decision. And once again, I would like to underline the strong will of our House to sanctions and express my gratitude.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0318par0670	Close the figirlik.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0311par0671	Turkey has known to be the only punch against these sanctions. What will be the effect of these decisions? We've already said it over and over again, and let's say, just as with the drones, the S-400 is going to be the most advanced air defense systems in the world, and it's going to help us develop these systems.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0318par0672	Close the figirlik.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0311par0673	So two days ago, we had a test shot of the low-altitude air defense missile system HESAR-A+, which we produced with domestic and national capabilities. In the air and on land, in drones and SIHA systems and autonomous vehicles, we now hope to transfer our experience to sea vehicles, and we're moving on to further strengthening our sovereignty in the blue country. In the field of defense today, our radar and electronic warfare systems, missiles, rockets, and ammunition, which we produce with domestic and national capacity, strengthen our heroic army in our domestic and cross-border operations. Thanks to our heroic security forces and our rising defence industry, there is a Turkey on the field and on the table, and with diplomacy, with its leader, who speaks and does what is necessary to protect Turkey's rights and interests. (AK PARTY) There's a Turkey standing next to friendly and sister countries that's coming to the rescue of the oppressed, the victims. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, if you'll excuse me, I'll finish.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0319par0676	What extension is this? We demand the same, we demand the same tolerance.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0311par0677	We had services in other areas.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0320par0679	Just a minute, Mr. Oktay... Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0311par0681	I was going to tell them, but since there's no time left, I'd just like to say thank you for the closing. Mr. President, I give my thanks to our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan for the perspective, leadership and vision of 2021 Central Management Budget Proposal and 2019 Central Management Computing Law Proposal.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0321par0684	Long live the padishah
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0311par0686	I sincerely thank all of our deputies and the President of the Plan and Budget Commission and members of the budget, including the executive staff, all of our Parliament staff, our Minister of Strategy and Budget and our Ministry of Finance, our ministries, all of our concerned institutions and institutions and employees, including the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, for their support and contributions to the negotiations of our Veteran Assembly 2021. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to thank our ministers, again, and also our MPs, who have supported us under the roof of the Cumhur Alliance, and Mr. President Bahçli.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0322par0690	Us? Us? We've contributed so much, we've criticised so much, we've tried not to lead you astray. No thanks to us? Why won't he give it to us? Politics is polite.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0311par0691	I already congratulate you on your new year, and I wish that 2021, after the challenges of the epidemic, would be a healthy and peaceful year. With these thoughts, I salute you all, with the Central Management Budget of 2021 and the Central Management Act of 2019, and once again, I wish our bid for the good of our country and our nation.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0323par0693	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0322par0694	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0323par0695	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0322par0696	Mr. Vice President insulted and insulted our party in the sixth part of his speech on the stand.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0324par0697	No insults.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0322par0698	I do not ask for ridicule, but for insult, and for time, for your tolerance, for your leniency.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0325par0699	Here you go. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0703	Mr. President, two minutes isn't enough.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0325par0704	Let's not make a new taunt, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0707	Mr. President, thank you. We went to Azerbaijan, with representatives of all the groups in Parliament, and you took us, thank you, and I wish the President had invited representatives of all the political parties in the Parliament to Cyprus and Azerbaijan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] What's the matter with you and this Innu? Let a stone fall upon you to the end of the land. It would be rude to say so. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Second, in fact, in the history of the republic, everyone's flaws may be lacking; politicians are criticized, not criticized, certain beliefs that we can't criticize, and so on and so forth, but when there's loyalty, there's loyalty. In those conditions that Turkey is in -- in which it has spent its life on the battlefield -- the key of the state, by its own will, in order to crown the republic with democracy, this is my greatest political victory. Fighting with a great human being who can say, "This is my greatest political victory." [[Applause from CHP rows]] We all have high sensitivity to Azerbaijan, but I wish on October 14, 2009 you hadn't banned the Azerbaijan flags and had the police gather them. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, I'd like to say something to the AK PARTY group.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0327par0717	Say it.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0718	Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, believe me, criticism is more flexible and tolerant than you are. You know why I'm saying this? By the way, I'd like to send a message to Mr. Erdogan. Mr. President, if you don't see me, they'll show it to you later.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0328par0720	It's very flattering.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0721	And thou shalt not forget that the kings are more kings than kings. (HPP) And for God's sake, Free Private did not compare Mr. Erdoğan to Franco; on the contrary, he spoke like Erdoğan, Franco. (Cheers and applause from the ranks of CHP) And in the mind of the Free Special, naturally, of Franco...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0329par0723	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0724	Mr. President, I haven't started yet, there are five papers here.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0329par0725	No, I don't have that much.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0726	Well, we want tolerance, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0329par0727	Plus one minute.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0728	Plus a minute isn't gonna cut it, so let's make a deal. Now, dear friends, the dictator matter, we agreed... I told Özgür Bey today: Mr. Free, Mr. Recep is not angry with the didictator, we've already submitted him to the reports here, and the Council of Presidents' Court has agreed that this is a criticism and there are judicial decisions on this issue. Why do you call him a dickhead? Say "Dictator" to me, bro. [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] Now, come on... dear friends, look here, I'll read a paragraph from Mr. Erdogan. I read Erdogan's words, shut up and shut up. It means that the understanding of our nation, our flag, our country, our state, that we built on all of our politics, all of our work, should be destroyed. Let's ask Erdogan now. So...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0330par0732	Right.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0331par0733	If it's true, why do you object?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0734	Is it true? Okay, that's right. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Before Erdogan, there were two flags in Turkey, you have no idea! Before Erdogan, there were two countries, you don't know.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0332par0738	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0739	Before Erdogan, there were two states, you don't know.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0332par0741	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0742	Now, look...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0332par0743	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0744	I had Franco take a look at it, and I didn't know much about it. Here's what they say about Franco.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0332par0746	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0747	Franco...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0332par0748	Do you want an extension, Mr. Altay?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0749	If you'll be so kind.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0332par0750	No, let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0751	I'd appreciate that. I said to the counselors, take a look at this man. Let the Qur'an crash, local and national, Franco, local and national.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0333par0753	Franco's all yours, do your best.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0754	I mean, in Franco, it's Spanish, it's Catholic. Now, of course, our President, if I go, the only state will be finished, the only flag will be finished. When I leave, the capitalists will drown you like blind kittens. If you dismiss me, the markets will collapse, and everyone will become poor. He said, Trump, nothing happened. And one of them said: "My humble body will eventually be dust, but the Republic of Turkey will always have its share." (Applause standing from the CHP rows, applause from the HYIP rows) That's what it is, that's what it is, brother. We don't depend on anyone. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Give it up for Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. [[Standing ovations from CHP rows, applause from good parties]] Gene gave a subliminal message, Vice President. He's obviously not going to make any promises. We are not from outside, from outside, from outside, for the sake of our power, Mr. Oktay said. In this country, Mr. Oktay...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0334par0760	Guys, we've got two minutes in four, so what do we do? That's it, please...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0762	Guys, let's shut up, let Mr. Oktay hear my question. Mr. Oktay, did America bring the power of Recep Tayyip Erdogan? Please respond.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0334par0765	No, there's no cross-examination here. Are you going to do a test? Please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0766	I got my answer.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0335par0767	People have brought it to power, it's been in power for 18 to 19 years, and it will continue to hold.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0768	If America has brought Recep Tayyip Erdogan and AK PARTY, it will.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0336par0770	People brought it, people!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0771	Well, thank you! If Recep Tayyip Erdogan was brought by the nation, he couldn't do anything if Biden's father came, but we said, "Who brought him, people?" There's no doubt that people will take him.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0337par0773	Mr. Altay, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0774	My last words, sir, but we didn't ask anyone else for power. For example, we didn't send someone to sweep Erdogan into the toilet. We didn't say, we didn't send word.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0338par0776	It's a shame, it's a shame!
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0777	Don't sweep Erdoğan into the hole. We didn't tell him, we didn't tell him.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0339par0779	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0780	We're Fetullah Smiley...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0339par0781	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0782	After December 17th and 25th, let's send a messenger to make things right. We didn't say anything, and we...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0339par0783	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0784	We didn't sit at the table with Soros, we won't negotiate.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0339par0786	Mr. Altay, please...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0326par0788	Mr. President, what happened?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0339par0789	Guys, let's take our seats, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0340par0790	That's what a politician understands.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0341par0791	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0339par0793	Guys...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0341par0794	Because of the bullying...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0342par0795	Calm down, sit down.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0339par0796	Let's take our seats, please, standing friends. Guys, look, it's been pretty good so far, we're almost done, please. The Chiefs of Staff... Dear friends, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0343par0800	The Vice Presidents of the Group are disturbing the peace of this House! They don't give a congressman a minute.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0339par0801	Mr. Ziver, calm down, please. Guys... Mr. Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0344par0804	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0345par0805	I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0339par0806	One moment, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0346par0807	First, there's a request from Ms. Meral Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0339par0808	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0347par0809	Don't make fun of me.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0339par0810	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0347par0813	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in fact, we've listened to the Vice President, and we've heard it before during this budget. His style has never changed, and he's going on a climb; there's an incredible arrogance, an incredibly superior approach. It's like there's no lawmakers here, we're all ordermen, you don't have the guts, you didn't do it, you didn't do it; it's weird. It's not good to be so arrogant. The day after tomorrow you will leave power, and you will not be able to live. Don't be so proud. I mean, you can't really understand that. ▪ The concept of our women was more contested than our turn. In this House, we'll keep saying it every day: we're no one's women, we're us. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP and CHP) (Applause from the Peoples' Democratic Party' Democratic Party) (HDP and CHP) (Applause from the Peoples' Democratic Party) One of them says, "Lords, there are hundreds of women here; one of them comes, our women, our women, our women, our women. " It's as if they're gracious to women. Women aren't asking for anything, we're fighting for our rights. He also said in his speech: "Cyclical boys wearing badges." We women don't call ourselves lunatics, so I'll tell you that, he's a man's tongue, but women don't do keyboard boys with badges like that either.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0348par0816	You don't even understand that.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0347par0817	Women eat gas when they fight, TOMA (TAMA) cuts him off, is taken into custody, is insulted. And I salute the women who are fighting for their rights. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Yes, the other one, what's done is presented as a blessing. I've listened to the ruling party group during this budget period until the end, which means we're already listening to our mission. I just thought of something, and I hope I'm wrong. We know where the budget is being prepared, in Fivepe.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0349par0821	Mr. Danış Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0347par0822	I think the texts are there because there's so much in common in the texts that there's no fifth road, sir, as if there's a new heating for the headdress, as if there's a problem; there's such a strange repetition. I'd like to bring this to your attention. The other, you send the children away, you preach. We fight for the children's rights, we fight for the rights of the young. We're fighting for young people to come and play politics at our party. While we struggle alongside youth, you send youth to prisons, we invite it to our party, nowhere else. This is where we invite you. I've said this before, and so have my other friend.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0350par0825	Don't the girls who go to the mountains, the boys who go to the mountains, these kids have rights?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0351par0826	Guys, we can't hear, please...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0347par0827	You two continue your role in Alice in Wonderland. By the way, because of Erkan Head, we're Pinocchio, so they really made us look like him. As Alice, you are in Wonderland. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Last President, this is the last time.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0351par0830	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0347par0831	I've told you before: stop giving the same answer to every sentence we make here, there's no receiver.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0352par0832	Stop saying the same thing.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0347par0833	You can't tie us to violence, to violence. None of us have that kind of connection, not one of us. But you're wearing them as badges, with your policies, with your cruelty, with your tortures, with your slaughters, and you're blaspheming the people's trustees, that's what the public sees. That's all I have to say.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0353par0835	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0354par0836	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0355par0837	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0353par0838	Mr. President, both CHP and HDP Group Vice Presidents have been harassing our group, our President, our friends. That's why I want to talk about the bench.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0355par0839	Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Let's not have any more bullying, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0353par0843	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs, Mr. Beştaş, of course, those who don't have the slightest contempt for PKK terrorism have no say here. [AK PARTY applause; HDP rows ▪Bravo! (!)
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0356par0845	Yeah, say something new, something new. Tell me something new. Say something else.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0353par0846	Secondly, those who read the text before Kandil have no right to speak to our fellow lawmakers, who reveal their free and original thoughts through their own improvisational speech.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0356par0848	You will know your place.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0353par0849	As for the words of Mr. Altay. Look, it's the CHP administration that officially recognizes Franco, it's the CHP mentality. (AK PARTY, applause in CHP rows) The Republican newspaper, which has brought to you the most intimate relations between the national chief and the fascist Hitler, probably gives you the best answer.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0357par0851	Friends, please, let's not be rude to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0353par0852	So it's also a clown who represents the president of a state, our nation, and our state, who, constitutionally, calls our army's Supreme Commander-in-Chief the "Dictator." It's clowning.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0357par0855	Guys... Mr. Directors, Mr. Göker...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0358par0857	You weren't like that when you were talking about the Deputy Director of the Group, Mayor.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0357par0858	Let's finish, please, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0359par0859	The Boraltan Bridge has become a national monument to our memory. In this regard, Mr. President Azerbaijan should be thanked jointly for the victory of Karaböp, which we all together have removed from our nation and our state. (Applause from the AKP PARTY, CHP and HDP rows) Under the leadership of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0357par0860	Friends... if we can't get each other to talk, let's take a break from the negotiations. Please...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0359par0861	Sir, I...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0357par0862	I'm not talking about you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0359par0863	I'd like to ask that my time be restarted.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0357par0865	Please, there's no such thing. Our nation is watching, waiting for an appropriate attitude for lawmakers, please. The man on the stand will speak and speak.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0360par0866	Mr. President, the CHP will be speaking shortly, shall we do so? Mr. Free... no way, guys.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0357par0867	Please, Mr. Turan, calm down.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0361par0868	I'm going to use my third minute, please, and I'd like you to reboot.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0357par0869	Let's finish, Mr. Akbasoglu, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0361par0870	Under the leadership of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, we fought for an entire nation and the independent Republic of Turkey formed our state together. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk has shown a goal, a full, independent Turkey. There, the leader who has implemented this goal and ideals is Recep Tayyip Erdogan. [[Applause from the EC PARTY ranks; noise from CHP and HDP rows]] Dear friends, from 1699 Karlofian Accords to today, we've had two advanced operations. The first, the late Erbakan, was Operation Peace of Cyprus in the Ecevit period of 1974. Thank God for our nation, our state's glory, our victory, our national pride. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And finally... four minutes, Mr. President, equality.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0362par0875	Okay, that's right. Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0361par0877	Yes, this happened together in Cyprus. Secondly, during our republic's history, our forward movement was carried out by Cerablus, El Bab, Afrin, and Mr. Commander-in-Chief Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the President of the Turkish nation and the state of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0363par0879	Allah, Bismillah, Allahu Akbar
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0361par0881	It is a common duty for Recep Tayyip Erdogan to show the national respect that should be shown to Ataturk, to Inön, to Celal Bayar, to Ahmet Necdet Sezer, to be justified by the people's will. [[Noises from CHP and HDP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] However, those who lack it will be rewarded with the utmost wisdom of our people.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0364par0885	Mr. Akbasoglu, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0361par0886	As a result, I end up with...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0364par0887	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0361par0888	Mr. Vice President came here, our ministers came here...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0364par0889	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0361par0890	...the 8th article of the Constitution, the 62nd Article of the Civil Code, has responded to their criticism of the equality of arms, the rights of the platform and the status of having equal rights.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0364par0891	Mr. Akbasoglu, please...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0361par0892	There's nothing more natural. However, our nation listens to everyone and prefers the one who brings out the right one, the right one, the best one.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit05spe0364par0893	Mr. Akbasoglu... Guys, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit06spe0364par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. The commission is in place. Now, on behalf of the second speaker, Republican People's Party Deputy Chairman, Manisa MP, Mr. Free Special. Here you are, Mr. Special, ten minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit06spe0365par0011	Mr. President, can't you see me?
tbmm-2020-12-18sit06spe0364par0012	The session's changed, they've stayed in the next session, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit06spe0365par0013	No, it's not like that, it's all left... let's get it on the books. I'll say something, sir. I'm not picking on... Okay, you've closed the session. But if you'll excuse me, I need to put a sentence into the transcripts.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit06spe0364par0014	I've given my word to the clerk.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit06spe0365par0015	But, Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit06spe0364par0016	Please, let's not go back to the previous session.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit06spe0365par0017	Mr. President, then I'll tell you this...
tbmm-2020-12-18sit06spe0364par0018	For the record, tell me from there.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit06spe0365par0019	Akbasoglu is my opponent, but it is my duty to protect his rights, and I find your attitude wrong.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit06spe0364par0020	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit06spe0365par0021	I find it wrong to call the preacher by reading the text in front of you while I'm standing; two. Three: Sisi was a coupger, they went to meet; Mali was a coup, and then a month later, the Foreign Minister left; the coupger El Bashir was welcomed in Turkey, so there is no lesson for us in dealing with the coupkers from the EC PARTI. Four, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit06spe0366par0024	Mr. Special, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit06spe0367par0027	Mr. President, Mr. Co-Chairs of the People's Democratic Party, esteemed MPs, I salute you all. I'm here to give you the final speech of the 2021 budget. Seventy-five days of constitutional process; twenty days of Commission work, twelve days of General Assembly work, and soon we will make a decision that will directly interest 83 million or even 87 million immigrants. Lawmakers in this hall will use a right on behalf of the nation who sent them here, an eight-hundred-year gain, a budgetary right. We're going to use an existential right that makes Parliament Parliament what we're here to use, not what we're here to consume, but a founding right that's why we're here. The balance of the government's left hand, which is given by the field's right hand, we're going to decide how and how much it's going to be used. Since a universal gain of eight hundred years, we are theoretically at the end of budget talks, which we have used since First Legislature, practically since 1923, and behind masks in all the Parliaments of the world for the first time, without contact, without contact, without contact, without contact, without contact, without contact. Up until a year ago, giant leaders were talking about missiles from continents to continents, early warning systems to detect them, radars, planes, defense missiles to destroy those missiles in the air, and they were interested in them. Away from them all over the world, they wanted money for missiles, not for hunger, for poverty, for inequality, for disease, for epidemics, for missiles, not for missiles, but for killing. What happened last year in China was a virus that the world didn't see, and all the leaders of the world, all the politicians, all of us, said: "Don't waste any money, don't bother. I can kill all of you for nothing. Seventy-six million people in the world have been infected and 1.7 million people have died. The total weight of the virus that did this so far is only 2 grams. The leaders of the world's other countries had no interest in poverty, income injustice, health problems. In fact, Boris Johnson or Trump, the maskless Trump, challenges of the virus are in all of our minds, but when four poor Chinese people in China drank bat soup in an animal market, it put the British Prime Minister in intensive care, and dropped the President of the United States into the hospital. We've all learned that we all, the whole universe, the entire globe, are as healthy as our poorest's health, as safe as the safety of our poorest. So what is it, not intercontinental missiles, but anti-continental warning systems, vaccines to prevent them, vaccines to stop them, and medicines to prevent epidemics, and for closures, stay-in-home, quarantine measures, such governments, such administration understandings were needed. Our basic impulse from this process, like all living things -- if we can save our lives first and get out of this process -- our superior feature -- is that there's a saying in the world that nothing will ever be the same. Social states will become stronger, social policies will become more important, egalitarian thesis will be stronger. I mean, it justifies our worldview, our ideals. Even the pragmatism of brutal capitalism is doomed to the idealism of our worldview. Here's the thing: instead of vaccinating all the people in some rich countries until we have enough vaccines for everyone, it's for the benefit of all mankind. [[Applause from CHP rows]] And the valued MPs, the republic, an idea, an ideal; a republic, a regime; of course, a transition from one man's regime to parliament; of course, democracy, but the people who founded the republic, they broke the enemy, they won the Instular War of War of War of War, but they made it even more difficult; and then they won the heart of the oppressed, the victim. He's done a lot of things, Republic, but three were very important: health, education, and his value to women. The republic, such as malaria and trahom, which prioritizes public health, pre-hygienic hygiene, combats epidemics, such as malaria and trachom... that 90 of the 100 people in Adıyaman have been sick and die in an outbreak of malaria that is common enough to be called the city of blinds, or to have reached 96 percent throughout Turkey. The Republic, with respect to the Republic, has prevented people from dying with protective medicine and measures protecting the health of the republic. The infant mortality rate was 25 per cent of each of the four infants born, and the mother mortality rate was 18 per cent, 18 per cent of every 100 pregnant women died, and almost one hundred women died, and since the republic was the cure for these deaths, the republic won the hearts of the people, the main battle. And we did it once. The Sivas Congress, described by the founder of our party, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, as our First Congress, was our call to the second century. Now, in our last congress, we have a declaration of the Second Century, which we all signed, which Mr. President has declared to Turkey and to the world. 13 topics, from education to foreign policy, social peace to political morality law. Most importantly, in a new community contract, the separation of forces, the proposals to the strong parliamentary system, the 11th title of Call to the Second Century, with 13 suggestions, proved us right. At the end of what we call a process, our worldview is justified at the end of this process, it recommends a strong social state. Inside the subtitles, for example, is a family support package. The whole world will not be the same in this process. When it comes to the idea of the basic income of citizenship, there is serious debate. Let him not be given to all, but to him that is in need. It is called, as in ADS. The macroeconomic effects that this is going to create are discussed, but none of them are opposed to the basic logic provided by ADS, and if the family support insurance had been established, for example, we've helped the minister, who boasted and boasted a picture of £6.5 million in thousands of families. But if we were talking about a family insurance package that we proposed in the Second Century, if we were talking about a family that was made up of 6.5 million families and more than two thousand liras a month, and four older brothers in marriage, they would be paid to anyone who is available; they would not have been affected by this pandemic with a minimum wage of two thousand liras. At that time, for example, the two basic challenges in the world, such as living off the street economy, the porters, the ones who go to the day to clean up, stay in the house. It doesn't mean saying, "Lieve." Work for a living, if you get the disease, if you get immunity, you can contribute to the herd immunity, it wouldn't be the third method that has developed for us to develop, automatically, except for the struggle with herd immunity and pandem.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit06spe0368par0034	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit06spe0367par0035	There wouldn't be a class immune system. It wouldn't be this system where people with money can stay at home, protect themselves, buy vitamins, nutrients, but your aunt who sells flowers, your sister who goes to the cleaners, your brother who's a porter, he's immune to packs. (HPP) This budget is a budget designed, even sent, and even defended according to the latest economic programme announced by the groom, Colonel. A warped process where the President of the Commission, who later accepted the budget, became the Minister to implement the budget. But this budget is a budget that's been made to look like there's no epidemic. This budget is a budget that doesn't know anything about what they're going through. This is a budget that does not prepare for the epidemic or the newly-needed strong social state. This budget is a budget that doesn't fund 130 million doses of vaccines that we all need.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit06spe0368par0037	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit06spe0367par0038	It's a budget that we can't stop because we can't help the farmers, the farmers, the workers, because we can't help the public health, the social state, the social government, and if we shut down today and quarantine this epidemic, we can't stop it. We'll make budgets like this. Who are we gonna do it with? The interests of all the democrats of the world are in one place, the sum of those benefits are in the interest of the continent. We'll do it with all the democrats of Turkey, we'll do it as social Democrats. We'll do it with Muslim Democrats, nationalist democrats, Kurdish Democrats. That's how we're going to do the public's budget and crown the republic's 2nd century with democracy. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-12-18sit06spe0369par0042	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you. Congressmans, the 2021-Year Centre Management Budget Law Offer and the 2019 Central Management Computation Law Proposal have been completed. We will now vote for 2021 Central Management Budget Law and 2019 Central Management Law Proposal. Proposals are subject to an open vote. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote of bids should be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We will now begin the open vote of the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and in spite of that help, the members of the voting boards who have not been able to get into the system to the presidential office during the time they've been given a vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Dear friends, the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 is an open vote: ▪ Number of votes used : 509 [[x]] Members of parliament, so, in 2021, the Central Management Budget Law Proposal has been accepted, so best of luck. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Now, we begin the open vote for Central Management's Final Accounting Law Proposal in 2019. I'll give you three minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I read the clear vote on the 2019 Central Management Computation Act Proposal: ▪ Number of votes used : 508 [[x]] Thus, the Central Management Act of 2019 was accepted, and good luck. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The issues on our agenda are complete. It is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (December 22nd 2020) to discuss audit issues and laws proposals and other tasks from the presidential proposals (3/1493) and (3/1493). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
