tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2021-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2019 Central Management Computing Law Proposal. Under the programme, we will hold a vote on the eighth round of talks today and on the first 2 articles of the 2021 Year Centre Management Budget Law Proposal, and on the articles of Article 4 (including Article 4). The eighth round includes the presidency, the head of the National Intelligence Service, the Secretary General of the National Security Board, the President of the Religious Affairs, the President of the State Archives, the Chairman of the National Palaces Administration, the Minister of Strategy and Budget, the budgetary of Communications, the budget and final accounts of the Defence Industry Presidency. 1) presidential Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Central Management Final Account for the presidency 2019 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2021 Central Management Budget 2) National Intelligence Agency Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2021 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board Secretary General 2019 Central Management Terms 1) The National Management Budget of 2021 2) The Central Management Final Account for the President of Religious Affairs 2019 1) President of State Archives 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Archives Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget of 2021 2) Central Management Final Account for the Executive Board of National Palaces 2019 1) Strategy and Budget President 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Communication Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Defence Industry Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Defence Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 Commission? He's in position. Lawmakers will be promised to conduct the talks on the tour with political party groups and at the request of the 62nd Article of the Interior Charter, which can be used by more than one speaker, and the duration of the talks on behalf of the individual will be five minutes each. Also, when the talks are completed, the question-answer process, the ten-minute question, the ten-minute answer, and the questions will be asked without justification. It's for your information. In the eighth round, I take turns reading the names of political party groups, executive and individuals who took the words: Peoples' Democratic Party Group: Sezai Temelli, Ridvan Turan, Mehmet Rüşt Tiryaki, Hüda Kaya, Sait Dede, Murat Sarısaç. Republican People's Party Group: Faik Öztrak, Tekin Bingöl, Bkent Tezcan, Yüksel Mansurvilç, Burak Erbay, Ali Haydar Hakverdi, Free Karabat, Atila Sertel, Free Ceylan. Justice and Development Party Group: Abdullah Right, Gülay Samancı, Hasan Çilez, Ali Cumhur Taşkın, Yalçın Akdoğan, Imran Kılıç, Niyazi Sun, Erol Kavuncu, Hülya Nergis, Tuba Serkal Pekal, Zehra Taşkesenlioğlu Ban, Mustafa Canbey, Selman Özboyacı, Selman Oguzhan Eser. GOOD PARTI Group: Yavuz Zekalalioğlu, Behic Çelik, Dursun Atash, Umit Dikbayır, Metin Ergun, Umit White, İbrahim Halil Oral. Nationalist Movement Party Group: Mustafa Kalaycı, Yasar Yıldırım, Mustafa Hidayet Vahaboğlu, Mevlüt Karakaya, Mustafa Baki Ersoy. Subjects: Poland Tamer Akkal versus Arlekcuoğlu. I'm reading Article 2 of the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal: MADDE 2- (1) Influences: As shown in the tablet marked "B," it is added to Law 5018; A) (I) The income of the general budget on the ruler is 1,082,029,040.000 Turkish liras, B) (II) private budgetary administrations have a total of $11,110,691.000 Turkish liras, including $14,546,924,000 Turkish dollars in income, 104,563,767,000 Turkish liras as treasury assistance, and a total of $11,110,691,000 Turkish liras. C) (III) The income of regulator and auditory institutions on the table is 8,267,484,000 Turkish liras, $168,772,000 Turkish liras, totalling $8,436,256,000 Turkish liras, is estimated to be. (2) Financing: The net financing of special budgetary administrations on the table No. 5018 (II), as shown in these laws (F), has been estimated to be 240,515,000 Turkish liras. Members of parliament, as you know, talks on budget tours are taking a long time. There will also be a two-point meeting and a four-point vote today. That's why I'd like to ask the speakers to complete their talks on their own time. I'd like to submit to your information that I will not give additional time to the speakers under the decision taken in 2016. I'm going to make a two-minute commitment to the Deputy Directors of the Group who want to talk about bullying, and I'm going to give them one more minute to finish all the talks of the political party group that they're in line with, and I'd like to make it clear from the top that I'm not going to extend their deadline again.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0002par0059	Mr. President, can I ask you something?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0001par0060	Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0002par0061	Sir, where has this been decided that the Deputy Directors of the Group have not taken the stand for bullying? A violation of the relevant provisions of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0001par0062	No, 2 plus 1 minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0002par0063	Okay, that plus one minute, but if there's any bullying, we're done talking, and then we're done talking...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0001par0064	He has the right to say something about bullying, that's one thing.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0002par0065	I do.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0001par0066	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0002par0067	Okay. I mean, we can talk about teasing, not after it's over.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0001par0068	For one thing, Mr. Ozkoc, it's hard for me to say no to an offer from you, but it's a process...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0002par0070	Thank you, my respects, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0001par0071	Now, Mr. Ozkan Eater...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0003par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, thank you for your support in my urgent request. Sadly, the problem of natural gas, which began on Sunday, continues. There were two explosions in the house yesterday, five wounded citizens, one of whom is in critical condition. I'm afraid there was another explosion in a house today morning -- just now, half an hour ago. Our citizens -- when they're not home -- go to work, but, by the way, because of the natural gasses that have been released, the valves that have been forgotten, etc., are filled with gas. Then, unfortunately, after coming home from work, the explosions continue because of subjects such as the public's turning on the power switch and so on. I've addressed the Minister of Energy here before. I demand that more teams come to the footman, and the conscious, professional team come, and the natural gas valves be re-active professionally. I'm inviting AFAD to the mission. In particular, Mr. Vice President, I expect your support, and we have serious problems with the footman. I'm seriously nervous that these explosions are going on. Mr. Vice President, especially from you, more environmental... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] 1) presidential Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Central Management Final Account for the presidency 2019 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2021 Central Management Budget 2) National Intelligence Agency Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2021 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board Secretary General 2019 Central Management Terms C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget of 2021 2) The Central Management Final Account for the President of Religious Affairs 2019 1) President of State Archives 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Archives Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget of 2021 2) Central Management Final Account for the Executive Board of National Palaces 2019 1) Strategy and Budget President 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Communication Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account THE PRESIDENT OF THE SURVIVATION [[Continue]] 1) Defence Industry Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Defence Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2019
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0004par0113	Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the first word belongs to Sezai Eylümli. Here you go, Mr. Permanent. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0005par0117	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. The budget for the presidency in 2021 is $4 billion, but the figure we're going to talk about is about $1.4 trillion. Today, we're going to talk about the presidential budget, hidden as a whole of the 2021 central management budget, because this budget, the budget of the presidential government system and the budget of this system, is not a budget designed in the parliamentary system, formed by its defaults. The budget, above all, is a comprehensive economic political text. This economic and political document is not only limited to the economy, but beyond that, it reflects the impact of political ruling decisions on social classes and segments. That's why it's political and by nature it's classical. If we're talking about the sociality of the budget, the class character, then we should talk about the budget first. Congressmans, the date of budgetary rights begins with Magna Carta. For the first time in 1215, the king's tax collection and spending powers have been restricted and opened to local control. Since Magna Carta also restricts the king's powers to wage war, peace is considered one of the first documents of peace because peace reduces the need for taxes. In this context, it is not only about democracy but also about peace. The parliament, above all, must be the only building that has created it, in the nature of democracy, which advocates budgetary rights for the community. We know, of course, that limited representation is an obstacle to the development of democracy. However, Parliament is getting its legitimacy from this representation, and the most important social reference that this representation is based on is, of course, budgetary rights. We're all here to represent society's budget rights, not to pass on this right to the budget. The current party's presidential regime ignores its budgetary rights. Shortly after the system went into effect, the House was disabled, quickly lost its powers and duties. Turkey's Grand National Assembly has become a structure that follows the President's instructions, rather than being a legislative, budgetary structure. Parliament's ways of interfering with the budget have been closed, Parliament has only begun to act as approval. Meanwhile, the fall plan and the exception created by the State of Emergency practices continue to include the parliamentary process of institutionalisation of the party's presidential system and the totalitarian character of fascism. It is the mentality behind the hate speech against the esteemed MPs, HDP, who led the political and social opposition. The HDP will continue to defend the community against fascism, retain its budgetary rights. The presidential government system is actually unlike any system. Here it is unique to us. Its rhetoric is as stupid as a local and a national car. Although this system, which means the denial of the political and social, has become legal, it has a problem of legitimacy on the axis of democracy, equality, freedom. The balance and control networks have been removed. Corporate autonomy has been neutralized, as well as institutional identities are ignored. When you say "presumption," you're talking about institutions where a democratic society can protect itself against custody. The central bank, Social Security institution, municipalities and even -- may seem interesting to you -- as the ministries lose their autonomy, not only does the political, social crisis grow, but also the regime crisis arises. Of course, you might say that the system does not have a regime crisis. But this system itself is a crisis. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is a trustee's system, a trustee's right to the budget. When trustees were appointed to our municipalities, those who attacked our understanding of local government were able to understand what the trustee regime was when the ministers asked for forgiveness through social media, how valuable autonomy is. Dear friends, there's no budget rights, there's no budget law, we're following a violation of the current budget law. The constitutional deadline for the budget proposal to be submitted to parliament has not been observed, the Constitution has been violated. Another attack on parliament's budget rights was the failure to comply with the budgetary debt limits and the increase of debt limits by a bag of legislation without being submitted to parliament. As if that wasn't enough, the budgetary bases were replaced by a bag of legislation, and the source of the government's projects in the name of public-private cooperation has been hidden. At this rate, if the budget comes in a bag of laws next year, none of us will be surprised. Where there's no budget rights, we're watching the destructions of this lack of rights, the crises, and the collapses that follow this process. Budget rights tells us a combination of all social rights. For example, when you discuss the Justice Department budget, you discuss the issue of justice in all its dimensions. There is no justice in this country, and injustice surrounds everything. We've been dragged into a wheel of injustice so far that we can't make a real law reform. We shouldn't be surprised how the justice system, the legal system, is dragged here because the rule of exception is isolation. The isolation against Mr. Ocalan did not only condemn the Kurdish issue to unresolved, but also the destruction of the legal state. If there's isolation in this country, we can't talk about the state of law and justice. There are hunger strikes in prisons, there are abuses in prisons, rights violations, tortures, political prisoners in this country, arrested journalists. Now, the air you breathe on the street is an isolated prison air. If anyone wants justice, talks about freedoms, democracy, peace, the choir of the Cumhur Alliance begins the song with silence and terror. Of the 805 intellectual humiliation alliances of terrorists, Irmirtaş. No, none of our friends are terrorists, none of our friends are terrorists; all of our friends, including Denizhattin Demirtaş, have defended law, justice, democracy and peace in this country, and will continue to defend it wherever it may be. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) is like a filthy tree with a word, whose root is torn from above the ground, and there is no way to hold it. Congressmans, there is no security in this country. When you look at the budget, not even the budget, but the Minister directly, you can see why there is no security in this country. The most fundamental issue of this country is the Kurdish issue, and the solution to this issue is now revealed in a global dimension, not with security policies, but with political and social peace policies, and we're watching how the entire community has been subjected to violence and oppression under the name of security. The strategy of security policies has been in the west, in the east, to be the state of the garnisone state of Fascism. If you recall, there is no Kurdish problem in a recent speech by the AKP's President. Those who know and want to solve this problem on their way there is no Kurdish problem. That means you're leaving soon. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Congressmans, it's not only about democracy, it's about peace. The 2021-year budget also ignores peace, leaving much of its resources to war with spreading policies and violent security understanding. There were 59 companies in military industry in 2002, and that number reached 1,456 today. The most important reason for the size of the number, of course, is incentives. The number grew dramatically because of the abundance of companies founded by names close to power. According to the 11th Development Plan, in 2023, the war industry was intended to be brought to a $27 billion turnover, so that in four years it would be four times net. With a war-based growth model, Turkey is heavily in debt and is driven to an irreparable financial crisis. The main reason for non-external policylessness is also this growth model. That's why one day, the EU is throwing Eurasian swings. Wasteful, militant expenditures have knocked the country down in exchanges and interest helixes. War is persecution, destruction, death is being taken away from home. Today, those who have been displaced from their homes in Syria, those who have been snatched from their land, refugees and refugees show us the entire naked human drama. Once again, we insist that avoiding the solution to the Kurdish issue, ignoring the political solution based on equal citizenship, trying to stand up with war policies, continuing to lead the country, the region and the peoples of the region to a major disaster. Congressmans, war is poverty. The poor have to be protected most by the budget. As long as we can't budget for labor, which is not a priority of war, which is fighting poverty, the budget will never be complete. Speaking on October 6, 2020, it is the duty of Erdogan, who spoke on October 6, 2020, on the week of the mosques and the clergy, not to boast in the presence, but to be patient in poverty. The true believer is the one who honeys the pain. The meaning of this is faith in the poor, a place for the rich. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) The small part of power also campaigned for suspended bread for the poor. I mean, honey from the pain, bread from the rack, what else? With this generosity, you spoil the people of Turkey! The price of the heavy invoice for wrong political and economic preferences reflects poverty and misery on society. Turkey is experiencing the largest poverty of the last 70 years, its population has exceeded the poverty limit of over 30 million. Budget rights are the right to work. The most obvious cause of poverty is unemployment. According to the agency of lying statistics, unemployment has dropped to 12.7, while the revised broadly defined unemployment and job loss are today in 28 per cent. Despite TÜİK (TÜİK), the worst is that unemployment in Mardin, Batman and Şırnak is more than 30 per cent. These are official numbers, unofficial numbers, you guess. Also in working life, social gender inequality is growing, and women's poverty is deepening. The income inequality between paid men and women is also growing. Men who work for themselves make almost 80% more income than women. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, the right to a fee worthy of human dignity is also the right to a budget. The minimum wage debate is actually playing a sensory game with us; we're not looking up, we're looking down. Overwhelmed income in Turkey and the distribution of wealth are the main causes of this poverty and poverty. The government continues to impose minimum life on workers for minimum wage instead of reducing excess and unfair enrichment, rather than draining the source of this injustice. About 10 million workers work in Turkey for minimum wage or minimum wage. The minimum wage has become the average wage. Employers are constantly taxed, while workers are oppressed under a heavy tax burden. Moreover, tax slices support injustice in itself. The labor tax bends the back of the workers. There's no justice in taxes without justice. The minimum wage must be completely tax-free. The minimum wage account should be based not only on the worker himself, but also on his family. Dear lawmakers, your understanding that restricts society only to those who vote for you but ignores their rights has condemned the vast majority of society to poverty. The pensioners today are the main component of poverty, and you've taken away their social security rights. 13.2 million retired and 60 per cent of the rights holders were sentenced to a monthly income under the minimum wage. These embarrassing figures have created widespread retirement poverty. Congressmans, education is a right, and perhaps the budget is a pen that needs to be focused on with the utmost precision. But we're dealing with a mindset that's burdened with teachers' salaries. Education has many problems, but given the recent period, digital inequalities are now deepening in the society of Turkey, which is poor with the economic crisis. Millions of students attending public schools have no Internet access, no computers, no smartphones. Digital education is more suitable for children without obstacles, children with disability? However, remote education provides numerous obstacles for children who need special education. Young Kurdish students at home face digital barriers as well as language barriers. Can an understanding that ignores the right to education in the native language speak about the right to education? Health is a right, but the pandemic process has shown that the 18-year AKP period has practically destroyed that right. The AKP government's capital-based Health Transformation Programme is bankrupt. Those who destroyed the healthcare system and created the healthcare industry faced the great evil they had created along with their pandemic. Even the Covid-19 vaccine is a commercial commodity, and the only thing that matters is not the health of society, but the earnings of city hospitals contractors. Congressmans, instead of fighting poverty, this government, which perpetuates poverty, continues to give funds to the bosses from its deepening budget. Dude, a political regime based on sergeant-racial capitalism is constantly building a tax debt, and it's a peace of existence. Peace for the living, war for the poor. A public purchase of 500 billion dollars has been structured -- the collection of unsolicited taxes -- look at the size of non-constructed debts, the most important debt pen not included is the farmers' debt. Instead of paying for the irrigation project they couldn't finish, the government, which has imposed economic violence on Mardinn, Diyarbakırn farmers, instead of supporting agriculture, condemns farmers to poverty by importing agriculture, and worse, agricultural policies also increase food poverty. For the 7th time, the grant of existence is on the stage. Where did you find it? No questions will be asked, no taxes will be taken on these assets, and no background tax reviews will be conducted in any criminal investigation, but in Turkey, the tradesman will continue foreclosure for the farmer. Members of parliament, the two most important issues in front of Turkey's democracy today are the Kurdish problem and poverty. In short, I tried to draw the frame of this. These two problems are moving together, and in many other structural problems, these two problems are the first-hand source. Today, the approach of power to these two problems is not based on solutions, but rather to feed on these problems. In democratic politics, power approaches the Kurdish issue with war and violence policies instead of solution-oriented, and the growth of poverty issues comes from its dependence on neoliberal policies. These are not only the political preferences of power, but also the characteristics of its character. Tekchi, with an authoritarian understanding, is trying to travel in a dead-end alley by overindulging, exploiting labor, plundering nature, legitimizing corruption, trying to suppress society with Kurdish hostility. The solution comes from the democratisation of Turkey, from the solution of the Kurdish issue, from a policy that brings labor, nature and women to the center. This is the radicalization of the struggle for democracy, the ruling perspective of radical democracy. On the basis of local democracy with the idea of radical democracy, the HDP responds most strongly to the government and capitalist understanding today in the struggle against pluralist, secular, democratic republic. Freedom of the oppressed peoples, with the struggle for equality of the working class, will surely get Turkey out of this war. Those of us who have the only political material to get rid of us should never forget that we are there, we are there, we are there. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0006par0143	The order belongs to Mr. Ridvan Turan. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0007par0146	Mr. President, I salute all of you with respect, with love, with the precious Regents and our dear people watching us at the beginning of their screens. At the same time, I extend my regards to all members of the Peoples' Democratic Party, lawmakers, co-chairs, mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, all the workers of the party who were imprisoned in the dungeons, my regards, my love. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, last week in the Istanbul County Organization of Peoples' Democratic Party, these insects appeared. Look, take a good look at these, let alone these. It's so pathetic that the Kurdish issue is my concern. The route that started from the order of the European Union goes through Diyarbakir. The political rhetoric is that I will finally solve this matter. The point of which the will and the will of Peoples' Democratic Party is based on is to plant insects in the Istanbul province organisation. It's so pathetic, it's so embarrassing for our people. You're probably seeing some of the technical materials here, we're probably seeing the rights of a people that have been destroyed, dear friends; we're seeing a historical right, a political continuity, a resistance. What you're seeing is that it's probably just an activity of MIT or Security Intelligence that puts it here, and we're seeing this struggle that is going on today, which is a society that's been deprived of its historical rights, its political rights, and it's a struggle that's going on today. Every time we look at this, and we start to see the same thing, then we're really going to be taking the biggest step towards resolving this country's most ancient Kurdish issue, perhaps. Dear friends, I made a promise on the MIT. Of course, being able to speak about the MIT makes it necessary to talk about what is the primary sadness in particular, which usually leads to the activities of intelligence organisations. Unfortunately, the configuration of the state of the Republic of Turkey, the alignment, the basic logic, institutional architecture, is based on security. Security policy has become a state that determines all of our public lives, all of our human relations, the organization of the public, all of the state's genetics. Of course, there are some historical reasons, some political reasons. Especially if we go to the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, the fact that the Republic of Turkey, founded as an Ottoman balance, is organized as a national state project, and the preferences of the military and civil bureaucracy, which established the Republic of Turkey, also shapes today's sense of security. What is it? As we say, it's the balance of the Ottoman Republic of Turkey. It's so rich that one of the last draft laws that the Ottoman Parliament-i Mebusan met is also one of the first bills the Republic Assembly met. It's not that much dissolution, it's a historical and political continuity, and it's this historical and political continuity that has shaped valuable friends who have also shaped security, security bureaucracy, and security perception as a whole. The Ottomans were a mosaic of the peoples, and what emerged when the Ottomans began to divide was a number of challenges when the project to create a nation state was involved, and it produced political consequences of even looking hostilely in doubt of the existence of all non-Turkish communities. It was a difficult project, the approach to getting a nation of states out of a people's mosaic. As a result of this, the Armenians, the Greeks have been publicly, politically and economically purged in various historical times, and there are one Kurds left, you know? So these separatists are described a lot now, but as a Turk, the Kurds saw their own fates together with Turkey, with the Turkish people, and side by side, even at the beginning of the struggle for salvation or the most difficult of the national struggle. Now, someone is saying that they're out of roots, these are the outer altars. If there were such a choice, the Kurds would have left us alone in the time of the Kurds. This choice, although this continuity, is still in some form, unfortunately, the security bureaucracy is trying to destroy Armenian, Greek, and then, at the point where we're here, to address Kurd's demands as something else, trying to address it as something else. In reference to Keyder of the ages, the national struggle begins in 1912 and lasts until 1920. The Balkan War followed by the First Share War, followed by the National War. It's not my place to assign him, but I think that in some minds, this concept of national struggle is still going on against Kurds and against the People's Democratic Party; it's still very strong under the roof of the Purification, National Social Socialism, or Franco Fascism, or Mussolini Italy, and still the Purificationist, who still wants to rule the pure Turkish Republic, and while doing so, unfortunately, a approach that eliminates our social and political differences, our wealth, unfortunately, continues quite strongly under the roof of this Parliament. Now, MIT activities, you see, are not something that can be handled independently of division, disintegration paranoia. In that historical period, the republic's establishment's challenges and security risks are currently under way, including the security and intelligence institutions of our country, the National Intelligence Agency, with a 1920 sense of security. Why am I saying this? I'm telling you, I'm also a member of this Commission. Now, the National Intelligence Agency or other organisations, not once at equal distance to the public, and the public service they've produced -- within the nail -- is just to solve the beka problem of a minority; it's agreed that I mean power and the palace. If not, for example, the Hrant Dink case, which has been inseparated for years, would have yielded a conclusion in the Tahir Elçi case. The Diyarbakır massacre, the Gar massacre, was witnessed by everyone, and the government is accused of it. Why didn't the National Intelligence Agency -- now, from us, the National Intelligence Agency -- where we discussed its budget -- create these services with this logic, with this perspective, by seeing all these intelligences, preventive services, as their own people at the time? One thing's very clear here: it's acceptable on one side, it's unacceptable on the other. If the constitutional rights of the People's Democratic Party are seen as a matter of employment, dear friends, forget the rest! If he automatically considers 20 million of this country to be terrorists, and he calls it a spy, then an organization, let's really talk about other things, we have a very serious issue. There's nothing bigger than that. On top of everything else, that means there's a problem. After this head did not change, after this sense of intelligence, this sense of security did not change, perhaps after not returning to the 1921 mentality, when the MPs from the province of Kurdistan saw themselves as an equal subject, after not being created as a historical and political medium, we did so much to prevent and listen so much to talk about MIT, see how beautiful it was that we put a listening device in the building of the HDP. The Human Rights Association has written a report saying that 160 people have been kidnapped this year. Some of them are our members, some of them our youth council executives. They're trying to spy on us. So, brother, if you need a spy, go figure out how else you can figure it out. (APPLAUSE) You're leaving members of our party under no circumstances. So the long story short is that the MIT is already providing us with their employment and not asking us for extra money, we don't agree with that budget, my dear friends.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0008par0156	Members of parliament, Mehmet Rushıt Tiryaki is next in line. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0009par0159	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute and cherish all our listening citizens who are watching us on television and social media. The other day, the Minister of Interior was saying, "You are no longer talking about the Selahattin Demirtaş!" He's trying to plant the seeds of hypocrisy among us in his own way, so let's not be too hard on him, let's just say they tricked him into it. I salute our co-Chair, our beloved Denizhattin Demirtaş, all the revolutionary prisoners, patriots, with love and respect. I'm going to talk about the National Security Board's Secretary General budget. Let's see if this Secretary General really keeps us safe. Look, almost every day, a Kurdish citizen -- often this one becomes a Kurdish peasant -- dies with a police or a police bullet tasked with securing a citizen's safety on behalf of the public, or the soldier dies under an armored vehicle used by the police, or drops bombs on top of him and dies as a whole. We've been talking about these murders over and over from this bench. Some friends, some friends who think they're more patriotic than we are, sit up and stand up. Our soldiers are fighting for our country, our police are giving their lives for our country. It's as if we're discussing it. Empathize and think, imagine that the same thing happened to you. May God not show you that your favorite, life-threatening, life-threatening, life-threatening, life-threatening son, a soldier, a cop's bullet, and this careless, reckless soldier, is not being investigated, even if it is launched, is not being punished. Yeah, well, that's exactly what Kurds go through every day. He dies every day with a soldier's bullet, a police bullet, but those who do so just keep walking among us. And there are statements made by public executives, and they are the most involved. Look, I'll read you three. August 2nd, 2019: "On August 1st, the border border of our country outside the border of Derecik district, from our northern border to the border of Derecik district, has been warned by our border troops to break into the area which is heavily used by the terrorist organization by illegal means. However, a warning shot has been fired on the rules of engagement by North Iraq, which has not followed the warning warning warning. Due to the roughness and rockyness of the region, the ricochet bullet core caused the injury of a citizen. Our wounded citizen has been taken to Derecik Sahara Hospital with vehicles belonging to our border troops at the scene, and unfortunately, despite all the interference, he has died." Is there a... is there an investigation? No. Is there a punishment? No. Another example: The following statement has been heard in the village of Esendere, in the district of Esendere, in the District of Hakkari Province, published by some press organs on November 2, 2020. It is long explained that during the search at the scene, the soldiers found a body lost and found its life during the search. That's exactly the kind of explanation that's been made. Is there an investigation? No. Is there a punishment? Not again. Another example: On November 30, 2020 (November 30, 2020) around 2:30 p.m., Derecik district of Yeşilova district, the mujavir in the restricted area of the military line, has died without being rescued despite all attempts to enter the country for smuggling, but the villagers on the ground are dying because of a verbal warning shot by our border unit. Is there an investigation? No. Is there a punishment? No. Now, I'm going to give you a couple of examples, and there are a lot of similar things going on with this policy of punishment. We've been living them every day, every day since the '90s, and they're not being investigated or investigated, but almost none of these cases end in punishment. There was a file in the public opinion called the JITEM file, which was ignored by a special action police officer who made detailed statements about almost all of the murders, which ruled out the acquittal of all the defendants. This file was not the first state-owned acquittal in the murders committed by state officials, but has already been acquitted in many cases, and it has been carried out during the period of the government. Thus, we lost the chance to face the past and truth because of these cases. Look, the Kızıltepe JİTEM case: 22 people were executed and lost by force between 1992 and 1996, the case was dismissed due to a statute of limitations. In this case, four of them were on trial, and nine of them were on trial. Again, in March 1994, the villages of Askonar and Cokoğülı in Şırnak province were bombed by 2 fighter planes and 1 helicopter, 38 villagers lost their lives. The General Staff said we had no flight on that day. When the investigation was launched, there was no record of the flight. As a result of the investigation, the irreparable explosion has been called "unsolved responsibility." God rest his soul, the Tahir Messenger has followed this case. In the end, the European Court of Human Rights ordered an air strike, not enough investigations, bombing people's lives, and concealing flight records. That's when the papers made a headline like, you know what they said? As a result of the fall of the bomb, a bomb dropped from an airplane, as if you were carrying potatoes and a sack of potatoes fell off the truck. Now, 11 villagers were lost in Kulp district of Diyarbakır Province, 1993; a trial could be filed years later, and the soldiers who were tried in this case were also taken advantage of because this case was denied due to a statute of limitations. In 1993, 21 people were taken into custody in Cizre, they were never heard from again; 16 years later, during the Justice and Development Party, the investigation could be turned into an indictment, but the case was taken from Şırnak to Eskişehir. Some of the defendants were acquitted in 2015, and some of the charges were dropped by statute of limitations. In 1995, Hakkari Yüksekova, the peasant Nezir Tekçi was taken into custody and never heard from him again; in 2011 a indictment was prepared, the case was transferred to Eskişehir, and in 2015 he was acquitted. In 1993, Şırnak Gölumlü was never heard of again from six people who were detained after the operation to the village; in 2013 a lawsuit was filed against District Commander Mete Sayar and the soldiers under his command; the case was transferred to Ankara, which ended in acquittal in 2015. In 1993, Brigadier General Bahtiyar Aydın, Specialist Yüksel Bayar and 14 others were killed; an indictment could have been filed in 2013; the case was sent to Eskişehirre, Diyarbakır, İzmir, and İzmir, from there to there, and the case was acquitted in 2018. In 1993, the villagers who went to pick up their belongings from the villages that had been evacuated in Mus Kızılkağaç, were taken into custody, some were released, four were found; an indictment could be filed in 2013, the case went to and from Mush-Van, and in 2014 the defendants were acquitted for lack of evidence. Again, in 1993, seven people were burned to death in the village of Vartinis, seven of whom were burned to death; in 2013 they were sued; in 2013 they were transferred to the West, to the Kırıkkale, where all the defendants were acquitted in 2016. It's getting longer and longer, and I'm at the end of my time. Now, look, there are at least 130 lawyers in this House, and there are as many lawmakers as there are. Now, the lawyers know, the law-educated know, there's a concept called unimpeachable responsibility, so in some cases you're responsible, even if you're perfect, and you have to make it up to them. If you have a vehicle, the owners of a vehicle must have a perfect responsibility, even if you have no flaws, you will be responsible for the damage they do. If the owners of the cattle flee from a barn where you surround them and harm another field, you will have to pay for it, even though you have no faults. If you own a civilian aviation business, you'll be responsible for the damage caused by civilian aviation. Do you have someone working for you - the perfect responsibility of the man who runs the law? They say you're responsible for the damage he's done. But how can we assume that the soldier you handed a gun to is not responsible for the damage done by the police or the bomb-loaded plane? Here's what we say, we repeat it every day: whoever has a flaw must be held accountable and punished, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0010par0181	In turn, it belongs to Mr. Huda Kaya. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0011par0184	Mr. President, Mr. General Assembly, I salute you all. Dear friends, there are injustices in every institution of the system, yes, but the Dianet Foundation, where people attribute a driver's license to the name of faith, is more than any other institution in which there is more sin, injustice, bigotry, injustice, and decay. With a budget that exceeds the 13th Ministry, with hundreds of thousands of staffs, does Religion represent 83 million of our people, which is such a huge budget? This budget, of course, is not in vain; as representative of this distorted order, the existence of Dianat is a matter of beka for the palaces; for the people, not for the nation, but for their reign. All our citizens have the right to the grant assigned to the diet, but the religion has only the tradition of Sunni and Hanefi. In Turkey, all our citizens who do not believe in Christians, Jews, Ezidi, Süryani, Alevi, Jaferi, Shafii, they pay their taxes as well as everyone else. The tax is taken against the mosque, whether it goes to the mosque or not. It's a budget our people don't approve of, and it's a budget they don't approve of. Friends, no religion, no religion of the state. The religion and religion of the state are justice, that's all. We can't talk about equal citizenship, we can't talk about justice in a society where diabetes serves one religion. There are 208 countries in the world. With so many hungry and poor people, there's no other country that pays more than 10 ministries for one sect, my friends. The Diet is today's representation of the institution of institutionalization by falsifying the facts, by striking back, by turning the ignorance that the apostles tried to lift into a religion. For centuries, they've taught these institutions to think, to question, to swear unconditionally without use of their mind, and to enslave people. These institutions, as if they had power in God's name, were legitimized by the clergy and their palaces, their reigns, and their persecutions, their massacres. During the reign of Emevi, a hundred and fifty years in the mosques were described to the people as terrorists and curses were read in prayers, and today, representatives of the same understanding show that they have not been left behind from their ancestors by their practices, which drove our people away from mosques for thousands of years. They don't give life to people who think and talk both religious and political, so that the palaces and kingdoms may live, so that their religious comforts don't break; people are imprisoned, their professions are blocked, their livelihoods, their rights to work, their security are destroyed. And just as we're talking about this distorted religious understanding and institutions, I respectfully salute all the women and all the lives of all the women who have been persecuted and slaughtered, all the minds of Ferhunde Malik Zade and Gonca Kurish in Turkey, who have been lynched by religious, fanatical, religious, pagans in Afghanistan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, I'm afraid today the same insights continue to endure the same insufferability to anyone who thinks differently of themselves. I will give only two examples of recent religious, zealots: One is Mustafa Ozturk Hodja, who had to leave his post at the University of Marmara. We do not participate in historical interpretations. It is a local inquisition to hurt the honor of a scholar, to lay down his job, to threaten, to cause the atmosphere to become uninhabitable in his country. Another example, Fatma Yavuz, who was expelled from the religion, is that I prefer to believe in the garbage can, as I believe in it: the reason why he was expelled from the line of religion: the fight against anti-criticism, such as the religious, insulting, demeaning statements, Islamism, Islamic law and religion, as I would like to believe in such a religion, is because of a green-painted Fascism, such as that of a woman who has crossed the limits, such as Ehlisun's line of religion, and who will describe her statements in the history of Islam, and the fact that she is underprivileged by a non-responsority, and that she has been exposed to the same thing as an uncontentruited, and that she has been exposed to the same thing as the same thing as the same thing as the same thing as the same thing as the same thing as the same thing as the same thing as the same thing as the same thing as the same thing as the same thing as the same thing as the same thing as the same thing as the other. Yeah, well, with all the budgets he's got, why don't you have real science people grow up in Diyanette, that's obvious. Dear friends, you know, last Friday, Religion performed a very important mission. What is this mission? Turkey performed a rain prayer in all mosques, trying to be alert with a call for a rain prayer, allowing meteorology to warn of rain. Even if you see the calamity coming, plant your seedling. Those who slaughtered millions of trees, as if they had no idea of his advice, called on people to pray for rain. More importantly, to fight those who cut down the tree and the forest, the true prayer of rain is to plant trees, but to whom will they fight? They've already cut off millions of trees, forests, people raising their hands for mining companies here. Nature means calling, inviting. The laws of the universe are defined: the prayer of rain is natural life, planting trees, defending forests, water, but you're going to fine those who defend the forests, the water, you're going to attack, and then you're going to invite people to the rain prayer with the warning of meteorology! Yes, I have no time left from this bench - the ones who represent the will of millions of citizens, the ones who are unlucky! Those who say that are the most dishonest! I want to say this one last time: Friends, you ruling and supporters, I don't even say that you have your last years anymore, because you have no more years, you have months left, and you know it very well yourself, now that we are going to your agencies, we know that you are going to clean up. But you have been involved in so many crimes, you have done so much evil to this people that you are no longer right to fear. Once again, I salute all our people who listen to us in dungeons, construction sites, workshops, squares, streets. Don't give up hope, be good, be good, the future is ours. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0012par0197	It belongs to Sait Dede. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0013par0200	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the central budget of 2021 of the President of the National Government of Palaces and the President of State Archives. I salute all our people who follow us. For days, here, our friends have expressed that this budget is the budget of the palace, the advocate, the war, and there is no budget based on the public; we will continue to express it. This budget is a palace budget, prepared in the palace, far away from the people, NGOs and relevant institutions, that even Parliament has no chance of interfering with the budget, and is sent to parliament only by procedure, for approval. When we look at the budget, we see remarkable increases from previous years. In this sense, the budget for the chairmanship of the National Courts Administration is one of the highest increases in public administrations under the general budget, with 273.4 per cent. The sweats of the poor, the workers, the peoples are spent on palaces and palaces that occupy hundreds of thousands of square metres of public land. It's obvious that most of our people live on the edge of starvation. Look, even in the shady numbers of TÜİK (TİK), as of 2019, the number of people who have committed suicide over the past five years has been 1,370, according to TİK data. Just the other day, in Samsun, a man wrote on his hand, writing, and ended his life. In a country with such bitter landscapes, let us consider the costs of the palace: According to the budget for the palace in 2020, the palace spends more than 8.6 million euros a day. This number corresponds to a month's salary of 3.715 minimum wage. Again, a worker who worked for minimum wage in 2020 has a monthly salary of $2.324, while the court costs 7.675 euros a minute. This year alone, the construction and repair of presidential palaces is expected to cost $610m in investment in vehicle purchases, equivalent to a monthly salary of approximately 265,217 minimum wage. The purchases of goods and materials for consumption, such as water, heating costs, electricity costs, internet subscription spending, have increased from 25.5 million to $40.9 million. The money spent on the palace's purchase of goods and services is 428 million TL, which corresponds to a monthly salary of approximately 184,000 minimum wage. In a period when people commit suicide because they can't bring home bread, the money the palace spends on the kitchen is $5,311,000, which is approximately a month's salary of 2.284 minimum wage. The fish smells from the beginning. As they say, yes, the fish smells from the beginning. We're dealing with a power that suspends law, fundamental rights and freedoms, gives no life to the one who isn't himself, and its cruel practices. Dear lawmakers, the right to live is the most fundamental right, the use and presence of all other rights depends on this right. The right to live is also the right not to be killed. In other words, the state is obliged to show respect for human life, and also to protect human life effectively, and to give deterrent punishments if it is violated. In Hakkari, we face a state that does not fulfill any of those obligations. So that all the official agencies are trying to cover up their right of life violations by hand. After each murder, the announcement pattern of Hakkari Governorate is ready, copied and copied all the time. Open up to the website of Hakkari Governor's website, all statements are at this minimum: ▪ A citizen has been killed in a warning shot to the air after he failed to respond to warnings made by the security forces. • A citizen has lost his life in warning shots all over the air. It's even a governorship that will go a lot further in some of the statements, which will inspire and advise the judicial authorities to conduct the investigation. While the dead bodies of the children are still at the scene, the governorate immediately declares a warning and a smuggling charge committed. Besides, none of our people, most of whom are children and old, are smugglers -- I'll tell you about it in a minute -- or even if they're smugglers -- and again, they're not -- are they being executed immediately where they're being punished for smuggling? Another important thing about these killings is that almost all of our citizens are being held at the scene of the crime, and if they were interfered, they might have a chance to live. They're waiting by your side, and no one's even allowed to help. Now, I'm going to tell you about our citizens who have only been killed by security forces in Hakkari, in the last few years, how the authorities have covered up the case and how they're trying to influence the judiciary. Look, Sürmili is a 55-year-old mother. On July 18, 2016, he was killed by a soldier's bullet taking food to his children who mowed grass in the district of Turkey's southeastern Turkey; the local court fines his perpetrator for three years and four months, except the upper court, which is a law court, which finds that a lot, for reasons that lift the responsibility, even the three-year sentence. What's the reason that eliminates the responsibility of punishment? It is in Hakkari, and it is in Hakkari. [[Applause from HDP rows]] See, again, on October 8, 2016, four people died in Hakkari Yüksekova, in broad daylight, in the middle of the mall in the middle of the day by firing from a cobra-type armored car. Do you know how much the perp does? The perpetrators of less than a year, of four people, are in prison for less than a year. Today, because of their opinion, because of their opposition, people can stay in prison for years, but the killer of four lives in prison for less than a year. [[Applause from HDP rows]] He's a 46-year-old shepherd. Again, he is slaughtered and kept in the village of the corporals, in the village of the corporals, where he has taken permission from the military to graze his livestock, and is not interrupted for hours. And the women that go to gather beets bring him to their villages, and take him on their backs. The ambulance is on hold, and Sertýn Şen is bleeding to death. You know what his father says? A shepherd was shot and who cares. Another ballistic examination of the murder of Sertýp Şen has found the perpetrator of the crime. The perp reported the gun was fired while checking to see if the gun was working, and this person was released on probation, and the perpetrator was out on the street. [[Of the HDP rows, boo! Shame on you!]] Vedat Ekinci, a 14-year-old boy. On 1 August 2019, Vedat Ekinci was killed in Çemekurk village of Derekık district of Derecik Province, Turkey. In the statement of Hakkari Governor's statement of the incident again, there is a pattern, a pattern, a pattern, a description; that there was a warning, a warning was fired into the air as a result of the warning. These people, of course, live in the air there, people are shot whenever fire is opened in the air, there is no gravity! That's what this is all about again.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0014par0212	You want to make it look like the PKK's killings killed soldiers.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0015par0213	Cora, do you object to this too?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0013par0214	The governor himself confessed, and there are those on trial. Sherali Dere, 61 years old. On 29 October 2020, he was killed by soldiers shooting right next to the 61-year-old Sherali Dereli house in Esendere district of Yükselova district. In this blood-freezing incident, Sherali Dereli is kept on the scene for six hours, no medical attention is allowed, and the villagers are not allowed to interfere with the wounded. The story of Sultan Dereli, the son of Sheralite Dereli, who twisted the heart of the human being was like this: We tried to break through the barricade set up by the soldier, and when we went to the place where my father's horse was, we met the horse's body, but we couldn't see my father there. There were voices coming from above. They said, "Stay calm! Turns out my father was injured and in their hands. We wanted to go where the voices were coming from, the soldier opened fire to stop it. After midnight, my relatives from the village and I were able to go to where my father was, while I met my father's lifeless body. It was after midnight. By force, we were closer to where my father was and we saw my father's dead body lying on the floor. It was not enough, but they made insults and threats against us, and they made my father's funeral wait there until five in the morning, and they did not give it to us. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm completing it.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0016par0218	The president, make an exception, finish his sentences.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0017par0219	What I won't break, no, I won't, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0016par0220	We've got two minutes to talk before.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0018par0221	Now, today, the cause of all these murders is the protection of the perpetrators. In all the massacres and murders against Kurds from the past, the institutions charged with so-called illumination found a legal cover for these murders, which was not enough, and rewarded the perpetrators. Yes, oh that's the way you treat the Kurdish people's children, women, elders. In the blood of these innocents, you will be drowned in the womb of these mothers, and that will be the end of you. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0019par0224	The order belongs to Murat Sarısaç. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0020par0227	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute our dear people and the entire General Assembly who are watching us on their screens. The AKP's government has made some of the institutions of the state a virtually manipulation and psychological operations centre, one of which is if RTÜK, certainly the President of Communication, because Turkey has dropped from 180 countries to 154°th place today in the World Press Freedom Index. So journalists are under huge pressure of the judiciary, and dozens of journalists are under arrest today.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0021par0230	What country is the 60th country?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0020par0231	I'll tell you in a minute.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0022par0232	Wait a minute, you'll see.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0023par0233	Patience, patience.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0020par0234	Today, hundreds of journalists don't have yellow press cards or are being taken away because you have to be a reasonable journalist to get a yellow press card. One of the most prominent features is the huge pressure on the press today. In the past two months alone, five journalists have been arrested in Van. Adnan Bilen, Cemil Uğur, Kentiban Abi, Nazal Sala and Dindar Karataş have also been arrested. The reason he was arrested is to uncover the case of two of our citizens, Servet Turgut and Osman Shiban, who were thrown out of a helicopter and tortured. And the state has made a very good statement about it, and has arrested them for a reason called reporting social events against the state. Later, in recent days, Ayşegül Doğan was sentenced to six years and three months. You know, in the 1990s, JITEMian head sentenced Orhan Doğan to 15 years in prison, and the current AKP government sentences his daughter Ayşegül Doğan to six years and three months in prison for journalism. So, now we're asking, what is this, not hostility to the free press? [[Applause from HDP rows]] Again, we have witnessed major atrocities in AKP power. 33 Kurds, most of them children, were bombed in Roboski, while their perpetrators were lost in Ankara's dark depths. Again, 177 people were slaughtered and burned to death in the basements of Cizre. Again, Osman Shiban and Servet Turgut were thrown out of the helicopter and tortured, followed by the murder of Servet Turgut. In 2017, Kemal Korkur was also slaughtered in a manner that was seen as being seen, but somehow his perpetrators were released by the AKP again. We're asking again, what is it, not Kurdish hostility? Let's hear it for President Erdoğan: Our Prophet respects man because he is a man. For example, in Medina, when a Jew's funeral is taken away for burial, when he stands up for respect, those around him ask the Prophet why he did so. The answer of the Prophet is very meaningful: he is a man. He explains his conduct by means of a message that sheds light on our day. - Amenna, it is beautiful. Well, then, why did you bury 261 funerals on the sidewalk in Kilyos? If you think so well -- and by Islam, you have to be valued, you have to be valued for funerals, people have the right to burial and grief -- then with what conscience did you send this mother her child's bones in a mailbox? Now I'm really asking the AKP from here: Or do you say they're Kurds? [[Applause from HDP rows]] You appointed trustees to our municipalities in September 2016, but our honorable people gave you the answer on March 31st. Then again, you took 48 of our municipalities. Our MYK member, our youth council member Serhat Aktemur, has been kidnapped in the middle of the street, kidnapped in the middle of the street in the busiest street in Van. Again, in the same way, you criminized the Democratic Society Congress, where the House had previously appealed to its views, tried to shut it down, tried to wear it down with all sorts of slanders. Your excuses and reasons have never ended, you've given reason after reason. In the end, you put dozens of our politicians in prison for the Kobani incident six years ago. So, we're asking again: what is this, then, not hostility to the Kurdish right to do democratic politics? The trustees you appointed first attacked Kurdish language, culture, memory and identity because trustees have become an abolition of political power's policy of assimilation and hostility towards Kurds. I'll give you a few examples from my constituency, Van. For example, in Ercish, the signs bearing the names of Kurdish intellectuals and Kurdish writers were removed directly from the libraries; likewise, in Muradiye, the Ayþe Şan Book and Guesthouse was closed; the Nuda Cultural Centre in Van Silkway was shut down; and the Kurdish signs were removed from their place in the alarm. What is this, not hatred of Kurdish? Let's take a look at the public hostility of your trustees. For example, as soon as the trustee began his work, he immediately laid off thousands of workers with the KHK. In particular, there are 306 employees who have won three cases by the court, but not one of them has succeeded in the interviews, they've won the trial three times, but none of them have been hired. In the same way, hundreds of Turkish Cypriots were condemned to hunger with their families. Again, like the poor man from Samsun who had committed suicide by writing on his hand, Mesut Babat was fired from his job by the trustee, and he committed suicide because of the trouble of living. So, we ask all our people from here again, not just the AKP, but what is this, then, not hostility to the hard work of the Kurdish people? [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, today the AKP tyranny has increased so much that they can't make detentions and arrests anymore. Today, we have 1,564 patients, who are heavy today, in prisons, only this year, 49. But the AKP, of course, doesn't see them because so far, he's been busy forgiving mobsters and the leader of criminal organizations. Again, the best indication of this is the isolation of Mr. Abdullah Ocalan.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0024par0244	The separatist.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0020par0245	While there was no isolation, democracy and freedom were the agenda in our country, peace winds were blowing throughout the country, the peoples of Turkey have taken over peace. Yet, you have destroyed the hopes of Turkey, Kurd, Arab, and all the hopes of Turkey for the sake of one power. Now, we're asking again, what is this, not hostility to peace? I'm running out of time, and the president won't give me any extra time. Finally, I say to the AKP people: Now, the AKP people have long found the only solution -- like the previous parties -- to shut down our party. I want to tell you a few secrets about this, and now, we see your mistake as: Do you know what your mistake is? Your mistake is to interpret us on your own terms, to evaluate us; we are not you. We're a party with a very long history, a great tradition of fighting. So let me just finish by giving you an example or two. For example, if only your president were gone, you'd be disbanded in three days. For example, if the trustees are appointed to replace your elected mayors by your people's will, you will compete with each other to become trustees in his place. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Again, as you today call your traveling companions, the Solomons, who swore to destroy you yesterday, were saved from what they called you. But our comrades are the Sebahats, the Figans, the Selahattin Demirtaş, our comrades Gültan Kışanak, our comrades Idris Bauken. [[Applause from HDP rows]] I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0025par0253	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, it's Mr. Faik Öztrak.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0026par0255	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the presidential budget. I salute the General Assembly. As I speak, I would like to point out that we are deeply concerned and strongly condemning the decision to sanction our country, which the United States of America announced yesterday. (HPP) This decision will weaken the NATO alliance's defence capacity. We, the Republican People's Party, will stand by any effort to overcome the problem. Dear lawmakers have been shaken by three crises that have been intertwined in our economic, political, and social lives for the past two and a half years: the state crisis that has paralyzed the country's administration, the economic crisis that emptied the pot in the kitchen, and the Covid-19 crisis that trapped us all between our lives and our wallets. As a result, our country is suffering from a deep depression. Respected MPs, today our nation, which is the center of all our consciences, is in a more fragile state than ever before. Our merchants cry out, "Give us bread on the roof of his miserable, closing store." The farmer who lost his field, his tractor, his cow in the barn to perform thinks of land and earth. We have hundreds of thousands of employees on forced leave who have lost their jobs at $39 a day, and hundreds of thousands of uninsured workers who have lost their jobs can't even find that $39. Our young people of the future of our country are desperate, and I work for food and road money, he says. The images of our citizens feeding off the dumpsters are probably tearing the hearts out of all of us. Our nation is going mad from nothing, and on the same day, a pool builder receives a French jet for $47 million, with his message of work and work. Thousands of our citizens are getting sick every day in the epidemic, hundreds of our citizens are losing their lives, but the people who run the country think they're fighting the epidemic by hiding the number of deaths from our nation. Citizens who do not know the truth also underestimate the epidemic; the epidemic is growing, and this time, the criminal becomes our citizens. Our nation's cries can't get past the walls of the 1,150-room palace. Our nation's fate, its troubles, its problems, its only roof, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and every respected member of its community have important duties in this situation. That party, without saying this party, as members of our Veteran Assembly, we have to work for the voice of our nation that we have entrusted. Today we have to remind the government of its true place and its original duties to those who have forgotten the reason for its existence, who are unaware of the state itself. What is the real purpose and purpose of the government? It's to ensure the safety of people's lives and possessions, peace and prosperity. Is everyone in our country today sure of their lives and possessions? Is there peace and prosperity at home? I feel like I'm hearing the answer to a heart with a conscience. So, how did we end up like this? We have to discuss this calmly under this roof. What is the cause of our state crisis? Two-and-a-half years ago, this order of custody of one man, who took life, destroyed balance and control in the state, took power in one hand, finished it off, and looked at the two lips of one man, our country is drifting from place to place. In the words of our first President, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the presidency is the name of the office that defines the virtue, direction, and proper qualities of a great nation. Therefore, those in the presidential seat have always been interested in being neutral, including the periods of multiparty life crawling. In our constitution, the implementation of the Constitution was appointed to the President of the Constitution to ensure that state bodies work regularly and in harmony. The presidential office has been highlighted as a state insurance policy in our constitutional and political system. That's why the President took an oath of neutrality on this stand. However, despite his vow of neutrality, when he sat in the position of party leader, this office failed, the state's insurance burned. The only man who's said to be more effective, faster, more stable has caused a great deal of chaos and chaos in our government. In this system, which took life on July 9, 2018, the members of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors have been appointed President of the EC PARTY, and the independence of the judiciary is on the shelf. The judges of the lower court appointed by this HSK have condemned him regardless of the immunity of our friend. That is, in fact, not knowing the law of our House. The Constitutional Court has violated this court's rights, correct this decision. The lower court has not obeyed the Constitutional Court's decision, it has violated the Constitutional Court. What, then, did the chairman of the EC PARTY sit in the chair of the President of the Constitution to ensure the implementation of the Constitution? Nothing; this is a state crisis. The Minister of Interior appointed by the President has disregarded the state's established rules and resigned on Twitter. Even a unilateral will of resignation has been taken into custody and has not been allowed to resign. His government is infected with the anti-discrimination virus. This time the appointed Minister of Treasury and Finance Instagram has resigned, and Turkey has waited twenty-seven hours to see if the government's treasury, the government's finances, is available in the wake of an economic crisis. The president, who is tasked with harmonising the state's institutions, is now having difficulty adapting even in his own cabinet. (CHEERING) Isn't this a state crisis? Another example is that we will make a quick decision. The executive body of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is co-organised into the legislative authority of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. With the actual implementation of the party's presidential system, 68 presidential decrees have been issued, but 40 of them have made changes in previous decrees, so that every 10 decisions that have been issued have corrected the decisions that have been issued before. Isn't this a state crisis? The state's career institutions have been shut down one by one to run the government like a company. Governments exist with their institutions. States with qualified institutions work effectively, efficiently and well. There are no more major institutions, such as the State Planning Agency, State Chief of Staff, the General Directorate of Laws, the Finance Review Board, the Board of Accounting Experts, but when the President of the EC PARTI, who sits in the position of President, the president, narrows down, he has to bring the ministers that he has closed down to work. Isn't this a state crisis? Again, two presidents have changed in two years in an independent institution such as the Turkish Central Bank of the Republic; the first one is not listening, and the second one is listening. 128 billion dollars in the Turkish Central Bank of the Republic's vault have been vaporized. Where did all this money go, where did it go, where did it go, how would it be put back? Is our coven able to account for these missing exchanges? No. Isn't this a state crisis? The leader of the main opposition party is threatened by a mobster released by the court's junior partner. Prosecutors looking up at the air and whistling if a fly flies around the president of the EC PARTI. We're opening the case, it's been weeks, but this guy still can't be deposed. Isn't this a state crisis? [[Applause from CHP rows]] In the budget talks, the officials appointed by the court to explain the budget to the People's Council, to inform their MPs, and to answer if necessary, dare to scold the MPs from this bench. Isn't this the greatest custody of the appointed one you've been objecting to for years? (CHEERING) Isn't this a state crisis? I can give you, like, a dozen more examples. Besides, we don't need to be wise to see the consequences of what we've been through. Since 2014, we've been going upside down in international comparisons, when one man has actually begun the party state regime, and the bad way has become much more evident. We were the 101st place in 2017, we fell six steps in 2020, we went down 107. In the Corruption Perception Index, we were 81st in 2017, but in 2019, we fell 10 digits in just one year and came to 91st place. At the Human Freedom Index, we were ranked 84, and at 2019, 38 digits suddenly deteriorated to 122. At the World Happiness Index, we were ranked 69, and we fell 24 steps in 2020 to rank 93. Now, is it possible to object to these global comparisons? Is it possible to ignore them? It's clear that the one-man party government regime is driving us back to the rest of the country. Today, if foreign capital prevents coming to this country, if the investors are canceling their investment decisions, that's why they need to be searched in these data and in this database. If international investments don't come, it's because the party state regime is the only man who quickly undermines the state of law and democracy and implements the control economy instead of the market economy. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Respected lawmakers, today, we're not just having a state crisis, we're having a deep economic crisis in the state crisis. The strategy for inflating the economy with external resources and debt began to signal warnings in 2007, the blockage in the growth model became much more visible since 2013, and the country has had a serious economic crisis since 2018. There's been an outbreak this year. In 2018, our national income was $892 billion when one man's custody regime came to life, and our national income dropped to $736 billion as of the third quarter of this year. So, in other words, this new system, this freak, this one guy, the party government regime, has taken 156 billion dollars out of everyone's pockets for now. International organisations estimate Turkey will drop out of the top 20 major economic leagues next year. There was a crisis when they took power, but we were in the first 20 economies, and now, next year, we're going to drop from the first 20. So, who's gonna take our place? We will leave the 20th place to Taiwan, a population of 24 million people.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0027par0274	Shame on you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0026par0275	With this custody party government regime, our country's economic dynamism is over. The growth rate of Turkey's economy was 4.9 per cent between 1923 and 1.4 per cent during the 2018-2020 period. I thought you said the new administration was going to blow up Turkey. Unfortunately, with the new system flying, we've had debts and currency rates, Turkish currency is a stamp. The public's debt supply was 967 billion dollars in June 2018, so the government owed 967 billion liras when the one man actually carried out the party state regime, today it's $1 trillion 935 billion. E, public debt has increased 100 percent in 28 months, which is not uncommon. In spite of what? Although the central bank's backup coins will be wiped out and used in a year, 128 billion foreign currency reserves have been used. Now, the vault of the Turkish Central Bank of the Republic is full-fledged. On July 2018, our net currency reserves, except for the swaps, were $31 billion, and today the Federal Reserve is paying $47 billion minus balance. As our ancestors say, those who lend money to the harpist sell their stables quickly. If the property of the state and the nation is changing hands in the crisis today, the cause must be sought here. The success of an economic administration is measured by how much work it can give its citizens who want to work, how much employment it can create. We've quit new jobs and jobs, and in the last 28 months, 1 million, 624,000 of our fellow workers have lost their jobs, and with the numbers that have been purged of seasonal effects, our true number of unemployed has reached 10 million,25,000 people. Can we say that people's vaccine is a success in a government system that can't increase their work? Of course not. Dear MPs, there is a fact that neither this system can carry Turkey nor Turkey can carry this system. This system cannot be revised, restored or rehabilitated. There is no freedom or freedom in a system where legislation, executive and judicial forces are assembled in one hand. As Montesquieu said two hundred and seventy-two years ago, executives who want to become Muslims begin by combining all administrative authority into their own personalities. Our experience over two years shows that the faster we turn from error, the better it will be for the nation. The first step to overcome both the state crisis and the economic crisis is to bring to this country a strengthened democratic parliamentary regime, where legislation, executive and judiciary can balance and control each other. We will succeed, crown our republic with true democracy. Before I finish, I'd like to make a brief mention of yesterday's shopping package of support. Yesterday, 1 billion 239,000 tradesmen announced that they would be given a total of 5 billion support for three months, and it was given the impression that this was a huge support. My fellow lawmakers, look, in the first 11 months of this year, only pool contractors were paid 12.8 billion Turkish liras. In exchange for what? Bridges we haven't crossed, airports we haven't flown, tunnels we haven't been through. Where's 12.8 billion -- 5 contractors pay this -- where's the 5 billion that's paid for 1 million 239,000 tradesmen? In fact, the only man in the party state regime, the people in the palace, they don't hear people's voices, they don't see people's problems, they don't understand people's troubles. With these thoughts, the General Assembly salutes the budget of 2021 and the new year to bring blessings and peace to our country and our nation.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0028par0282	Thank you, Mr. Oztrak. The order is for Mr. Tekin Bingöl. Here you are, Mr. Bingöl.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0029par0286	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The 2021 budget doesn't mean anything by its numbers. Why am I saying this? I'm speaking from the numbers of some institutions that are in the direction of the palace. For example, İSKUR; the unemployment rate of İSKUR is not convincing to anyone. For example, TÜİK; just when we look at the inflation figures of TÜİK (TİK) believe that even my most fanatical AKP members do not believe in these figures. Because the market denies these numbers, the market denies these numbers, the confectionary stores deny them. Another example, the Ministry of Health, is that no number they've explained since the beginning is true. We don't know our losses, we don't know our number of patients, and in such desperation, our citizens are trying to get out of this mess. For him, this budget, which reflects every drop of the sweat of the proud people of this country, is not the public's budget. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, the budget is tied to 1.3 trillion, which is fine, but the funding of this budget is 1.1 trillion dollars in taxes. Sadly, more than a third of these tax revenues, as has been in AKP's 19-year budgets, are being paid for taxes that have been cut from the sweat of my working brothers and sisters. Well, there's a budget like this coming up. Something else, let's see, before the presidential government system, what happened, then? First, let's look at budget deficits: 2017, the budget deficit closes at 48 billion. The year is 2018, and the glorious presidential government system begins, the envisioned budget deficit is 66 billion, but ultimately closes at 73 billion. Then we come to 2019, where the predicted budget deficit closes at 80 billion, 123 billion. The year is 2020, 139 billion budget deficits, but only in the ninth month of the year 140 billion; we will see, at the end of this year, the budget deficit will exceed at least 2 billion, and at the end of the year, 2021... there is finally a record in the budget, and for the first time in our record date, there is a budget that starts with a budget of 1.3 trillion billion, so there is a five-tenth deficit in the budget. Is he gonna stay with this? No way. Again, at the end of 2021, we will see, and we will live to see that this opening will find 300 or 400 billion. Don't, don't, don't connect this gap to the pandemic. Why? You helped him with a thousand liras, you gathered him with an IBAN; you paid him with a short work grant, and you paid him with an unemployment fund. It's not about the budget, but you did something; well, let's do it, no, the hasenatics are great. For example, we distributed masks and disinfectant to 156 countries, for example, to Tunisia, we donated $5 million to Somalia, for example, $3.5 million. There's such a beautiful proverb that defines you: "Where is your self-sufficient grandfather, to feed the citizen?" That's what he defines you. (HPP turns) Yeah, I've got 17 million poor people, I've got a citizen collecting bread from a dumpster, I've got a job, I've got a desperate, let's sweep our own door first. Now, the AKP was going to fight poverty as it began, a beautiful, wonderful thing. There's an incident that you must remember for 24 hours: the one that is full when the neighbor is hungry is not one of us. It's a wonderful thing, it's a wonderful event. That was supposedly the words of a mujahideen, and then he started traveling with the contractors, and then he was available. Don't get me wrong, it's a quote, it's not mine, it's Mr. Numan Survivor. (Applause from CHP rows) Mujahid, contractor, available... lf there's a question to be asked, you'll go back and ask Mr. Saved. Something else. What's in this budget? Since we're talking about the presidential budget, the presidency has 4 billion 39 million budgets, the Parliament has 1.9 billion. Well, it's the Clave; it's the palace that reigns, of course. Is that all there is to it? It's not. There's another budget for the presidency. What? That's a $10.1 billion budget with a backup grant in it for strategy and budget chairmanship. Three: national palaces budget, 230 billion. Four, very important: the communications presidency has a budget of 422 million. Is it over or is it possible? The big radish is in the saddlebag. There's a covered grant no one can question, so cover it up so I don't die! We don't know what's going on with anyone; 6.6 billion. A total of 21.5 billion presidents have a grant. Now, you're going to say, that's not all. You're right. Because one man already controls the entire budget, it's not limited. The daily spending of 21.5 billion in the presidential budget is 59 million dollars per day. Look, this 59 million is a month's salary from 59 million minimum wage in one day. There is the palace, there is the pleasure, and there is the kingdom. What else? Now, the Court must be counted. Who casts the members of the Court? Parliament. We all know how heavily assigned he is. For ten years, the Court has tirelessly issued a warning, saying, "O palace, you institutions, explain to these associations, to these foundations, to the troops. For ten years, they have not explained it, but the palace does not explain it. E, the fish stinks from the beginning, and if the palace doesn't explain... they don't explain their donations to 134 institutions and municipal associations and foundations. Well, don't be afraid. Explain. EXPLAIN, and be transparent, what you have given him, and what you have given him, and what you have given him. For him, this budget is not transparent, it's not egalitarian, it's not sharing. There is another feature of this budget, which is that the Court does not now wear or wear a palace. The other thing is, I've raised a question to CIMERbook about Red, and I'll tell you the answer I've been given twice, it's mind-boggling. If the Vice President hears this, I'll address it to him now. With the court's question, I have two basic questions: 1) Explain to the Union, the Foundations, the congregations, the associations. 2) The Red Moon is an institution that we all have to protect and protect. Do you know what happened at this institution? It's been debated for the last year, corruption, irregularity. What I'm saying is, let's take this institution out of the controversial environment. I'm writing it to CIMER, I'm writing it to the CIMER Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is writing it to CIMER. The last word: See the Web site of the Red One for answers to these questions. Don't mock our minds. Can't we think of looking at the Red's website? You're running away. Why am I asking CIMER this? Because Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the Honorary President of the Daughter, is asking for him, I'm asking for him, but there is no answer. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, there's no good in this budget, there's no good in any of your jobs because you've got a lot of ah's. You have taken the covenant of those who seek justice, you have taken the covenant of those who seek justice, you have taken the covenant of those who seek rights, you have taken the covenant of those who commit suicide. You've got so many ah's in your saddlebags, you've got so much apocalypse, you can't get any good out of what you're doing for him or these budgets. The last word is, we're going to go and make an extraordinary bid... You're not bidding, you're giving the address a job, you're acting out, you're angry, you're nervous. You're saying that no matter what we do, no matter what we do, we leave, the flood after us. There will be no flood after you, because this plundering and plundering order... A country that will prosper with the people's power to be established. As in Ankara, Istanbul, Adana, Mersin, Hatay, Aydın, Tekirdağ, I say, everything will be very, very beautiful, I give you my regards.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0030par0300	The order belongs to Mr. Bulent Tezcan. Mr. Tezcan, please.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0031par0303	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're doing the third budget of the one-man regime. Well, then, it's imperative that we all, together, take a look at the palace photo. Let's see what kind of painting there is. Look, the presidential office is tasked with observing the functioning of the state's organs in harmony, it's been described that way. The presidential office, which is tasked with the integration and regular work of the state, has now, unfortunately, become a position of hostility, a position of hostility. We're dealing with a presidential office that sees everyone who's not himself, every institution, everything that's hostile, and we're doing his budget. The president needs to be neutral, everyone says that, and the Constitution says that. So, what's the situation? We're dealing with a president who took an oath of non-biasedness, but who actually took an oath of hostility. (CHP clapping) Isn't that right, fellas? Look, dear friends, in this Parliament, for a long time, the political institution has pondered how to cleanse us of the law of violence. Let's get rid of the law of violence. What happened? You've built a new coup law in Turkey in the coup d'état of July 20th. Under the coup of July 20th, a Turkey was created in Turkey, where all authority was given to one person, not to a working democracy, but to one man. With a new culture of coup, we have to deal with a new coup law right now. Dear friends, the forces are gathered in one person's hands. You're returning, the reputation of every state's institution, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is at its feet, the reputation of lawmakers is at its feet. The presidential budget is being discussed, and the position of ruling lawmakers trying to line up in front of the president's palace is empty. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, the independence of the judiciary is at stake. Today, judges and prosecutors decided that fear of the wrath of the palace or the haste to enter into the palace had moved ahead of the sense of justice. There's no sense of justice in the courthouse corridors, there's the palace's wrath and competition for sucking up to the palace; such a Turkey was created. (HPP) Can you imagine, there are tribunal heads who consult with the president's advisor. The committee will go to trial, the president of the court is in the room talking to the President's advisor, which the court members agree to, such a court order. There are judges today who don't comply with the Constitutional Court's ruling. Where did they come from, the bingo? Who encouraged them? Didn't Recep Tayyip Erdogan encourage this injustice, this injustice? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, the cost of this one-man regime is not just the loss of law, justice, democracy. This single man has counted the cost of his regime, our friends, and I will only say two more things: the cost of this single man's regime in less than two and a half years is 156 billion dollars, 12.5 million unemployed citizens, 30 million poor citizens, that's what it costs. It's not just a democracy, not a statement of justice; it's a romantic democracy, not a statement of justice; it's a matter of bread; it's a matter of arguing against the hunger test of a citizen who can't bring his child bread. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, a new custody order has been established. This court order has formed a new custody order, a custody order that has no respect for the chest. They refused to lose the Istanbul elections -- not 13.500 votes. After that, they fell on top of the Supreme Election Board, canceled the Istanbul elections, people kicked them in the head with 806,000 kicks this time. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You elect a citizen mayor, you depose the mayor, you replace the governor, you dismiss the governor, you try to run the municipalities with trustees. This one-man regime came in the chest 18 years ago, continued with the chest until today. Now, when the day comes when he's going to leave with the trunk, he's looking for you to not respect the chest, but let no one do the math, this chest you don't respect, he'll send you back, I hope. You're going back with this crate you don't respect. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, the integrity order has been destroyed. Now, can you imagine, you're appointing an ambassador, suspected of bribery, not cleared in court? Look at the photo, representing the state of the Republic of Turkey; a shoebox in one hand, a chocolate box in the other, a state car under it, wearing the flag of the Republic of Turkey, traveling in an embassy car; this is the photograph you gave to the world. Or something else... there's a figure in the presidency, more than a permit, on top of the ministers -- not to mention the President -- the propaganda chief, Goebbels, head of propaganda. Now, on top of everything, this gentleman gets five paychecks, and when he shows up, he comes out with a huge rash, and he says: "I spent this no hasenata." So, gentlemen, is this government's money a guarantee of your paradise? Will you enter heaven with the government's money? (CHP clapping in rows) What's wrong with money that's not good for money? Is Beytülmal your vessel to open the gates of heaven? Are you going to enter heaven through the bridge that you built over the betelmal? What kind of work is that, what kind of understanding? Harmless money doesn't make a good harvest. No, if you're going to make a pilgrimage, come in and guarantee a human life, a fee, a income, a life, a life, a life, a life, a life, a life, a life that you have forced to live for $1.168 a month, $39 a day, for misery, hunger, poverty, and poverty. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, there's another thing, when you say merit, the Eagle Imam Hatip graduates have come to a very prestigious place in the state. First of all, I'm not saying that Eagle Imam Hatip graduates shouldn't go anywhere in the state. No matter what degree he's graduated from, but to graduate from Eagle Imam Hatip, especially to become an Eagle Imam Hatip graduate in the same circuit as Mr. President's Mahdum, has become the key to opening all doors in the state. So let the ears of Ibrahim Tatlises ring, as he used to say: Did Oxford go to Urfa, and we didn't go? Now if they asked Ibrahim Tatlises, there was Eagle Imam Hatip in Urfa, and we didn't go? That's what you've done, that's what you've done. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, 5 out of 1,780 television channels have been able to resign a minister, such as this, a custody order has been established over the media. Prison sentence is being tried in court, a criminal trial has been filed against Cumhuriyet daily for reporting 55 ads and the palace's propaganda minister. At the end of the day, the press execution institution has become the Press Adjournalist, and at the very last moment, ten and a half years in prison for pursuing the fugitive structures of our Istanbul County President. Look, I'm speaking from here to all of Turkey, and I'm calling to the court regime: not to our Istanbul County President, not to our 81 borough president, and even if you ask for eighty-one thousand years, we'll continue to say so. This budget is the budget of the spoiled, and we are not going to be partners in this sassiness. Thank you all, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0032par0325	It's the order of Mr. Mansur's sword. Here you go, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0033par0328	Mr. President, I have received a pledge regarding the budgets of the esteemed MPs, the head of the National Intelligence Agency, the Secretary General of the National Security Council and the President of the Defence Industry. I salute the General Assembly. I salute our martyrs who died for a sacred mission, such as the defense of the homeland, and thank our veterans. I wish our security forces, who are in charge of their duties, especially our Mehmet-donos, who are fighting against terrorism at first. Meanwhile, an sanction has been issued against our country in the United States. We never and never accept the decision of the United States of America to sanction our country through our Defence Industry presidency. [[A round of applause from CHP and MPP rows]] Dear lawmakers have been earmarked 11 per cent from the budget of 2021, along with backup funds for our defence, security and intelligence institutions, and the total budget has risen to 128 billion dollars. In our defense and security institutions, our staff is close to 1 million. We use a large manpower and a large budget for our safety and defense. On the other hand, poverty and unemployment -- which also stemming from security, security, security and terrorism -- were not included in the 2021 budget. As in other institutions of our country, our security institutions are not managed. Mr. Vice President, you can't provide security by looking after the Star Intelligence Agency. You can't provide security by giving a party MIT image at the opening of the new MIT building, where the AKP spokeswoman showed up. You can't provide security by providing equipment to rally squares for the activities of the MIT. You cannot provide security by allowing the name of a so-called criminal criminal to be brought together with the MIT. (Applause from CHP rows) Instead of preventing illegal wiretaps, report to the opposition leader in response to the fact that his phone calls are being tapped. You can't provide security with a serious attitude such as the opposition. You can't provide security with your attitude, which is even more serious, in exchange for their contributions to your election campaigns. You can't provide security by handing over almost all of our national defense industry to your family company. You can't provide security by making the Tank Palette Factory a backslide to a foreign state. (Applause from CHP rows) You can't provide security with your intelligence approach that cloudes the importance of diplomacy in foreign policy. You can't secure information, intelligence, and counterintelligence with your attitude with operations to prevent preventive activities. You cannot provide security with your understanding that deprives our country of its National Security Policy Document. You cannot ensure security by preventing security and intelligence activities from being audited by the Turkish Grand National Assembly. You can't secure the actions of workers, unionists, miners who struggle for rights by making them a security issue. (Applause from CHP rows) Since the President is being criticized, you can't provide security with the understanding of the only man convicted of nearly 10,000 of our citizens. Dear lawmakers, the unsafe environment and security problems in our country have become the most prominent topic in the latest published books. The book, such as Uncle's Spies, is the top seller of the best seller's list of books. Even this shows that the security field is being alerted, unmanageable, blown away. Now, it's up to us. Now, the task is to remove the area of defence, security and intelligence from one man's power and, once and for all, from the influence of the congregations and politics, making it the only institutions based on national security. Now, the task is to secure the security field, which has become unsafe in the hands of one man's power, right after the first election. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0034par0337	It belongs to Mr. Burak Erbay. Here you go, Mr. Erbay.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0035par0340	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, we're trying to make a budget in these difficult conditions where the pandemic surrounds our country. In this epidemic, our tax-paying shopkeepers are struggling for years; cafes, coffeehouses, restaurant owners are trying to survive; school servers, canteens are trying to survive; internet cafe managers, mobile vendors and TECEL vendors are dying, millions of our citizens are hungry, but the court and its supporters who need to find a cure do not seem to be satisfied. The announced support packages are not enough. Tax, insurance and BUG-KUR bonus debts must be postponed without interest and a much more comprehensive support package must be announced. I'd like to address the AKP MPs: I've seen your talks in budget talks. You don't see the status of the citizen. You're cut off from the public by your freaky system, and you're suffering from power poisoning. Look, I want to show you a photo: Years ago, an election campaign, Mr. Erbakan and Recep Tayyip Erdogan are campaigning in a modest truck.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0036par0345	Our teacher, we're proud of him.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0035par0346	Yes, your teacher. You know what you're doing right now? You're going to Friday prayer with a million-dollar car, Friday prayer. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You said: "We have been persecuted, we will fight for freedom." Yeah, people believed it, voted for you, came to power. You know what you're doing now? Now you are unjust. Look, you're oppressing our bar presidents, you're oppressing the miners. What you did to the doctors a few days ago, that is, unfortunately, in this case. So what you're saying, Mr. President, you're not doing well.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0037par0350	Tell me, what car is Kilicdaroglu in?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0035par0351	Look, do you know what's in these photos? There's luxury, there's vanity, there's waste, there's seat ambition, there's chasing the country for the love of seats, there's chasing after the country.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0038par0353	What kind of car do you drive?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0035par0354	Very valuable representatives, the President of the Ministry of Religious Affairs has a budget greater than seven ministries, a budget of 13 billion. I'd like to talk about two companies that have hope for humanity in these dark days that we've been through. One Pfizer, one BioNTech. Look, 96,000 people work in this Pfizer, which operates in 175 countries. Two Turkish doctors have 1,300 people working at BioNTecH. So, I'm asking you, do you know how many people work on Diyanette? 131,789 people work, so the number of people on the dianetin is 100 times as many as BioNTecH. Look, do you know what we did when we were waiting for the most needed medical technician and medical staff to be appointed to fight the plague? We've got 5,000 additional personnel on the diet, folks, 5,000.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0039par0355	It's not enough, it's not enough.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0035par0356	See, that's how your understanding of the country sinks, brings it to bankruptcy.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0040par0357	Look, check it out, stop by mosques, no imams, no imams in mosques.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0035par0358	Dear lawmakers, look, in the 2021 budget, we've earmarked $881,891 for homes where children are being harassed, where they're burned alive. With the money spent on these organisations, one million, six hundred and thirty-seven thousand tradesmen could receive 50 thousand euros each. (CHP applause) The public view of a power, that is, from the budgets. These budgets you've made include congregations and cults. You know what happens when the Republican People's Party comes to power? This budget will be given to the people who own the government, the people! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, do you know what's not in this luxury, wasteful, posh budget? We don't have Flaming Citizens. Not long ago, the Alevis and Cemevs were granted constitutional rights in Germany. But in this day and age, unfortunately, Turkey is not in the position of a temple, but this darkness must be resolved as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, when we examined the Dianet's budget, we also encountered incredible expenses. The Head of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, you remember, he had a saying, "Wait for the evening to buy fruit and vegetables." You know what he's doing with the Ministry of Religion? Look, Diyanette's building a major. That's $40 million.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0041par0362	Are you against that mosque?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0035par0363	You know what's in here? There's a bath, there's a sauna, you guys. There's just been a tender, and you've saved $2,749 grand to organize the garden of this. What else is in the Dianet's budget? There's a Harput Dianet Ashland in Elizýzýgü for $90 million. The earthquake houses aren't finished yet, so what's the use of it, guys? Just the other day, as we were investigating these, we found out that my constituency, my constituency, the Basement Partnert, was being built again for $100 million. We haven't finished 40 percent of the hospital in Bodrum. What's the hurry? Look, there is a saying to Abu Zer. He says, "How did you find my palace when you built yourself a magnificent palace in Damascus?" Abu Zer answers: If you have built this palace with your own money, it is waste; if you have made it with the people's money, it is treason, it is unlawful. This is treason, forbidden, my friends!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0042par0367	Where do you live in the basement?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0035par0368	Islam keeps the mind at the forefront.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0042par0369	You can sit in the villa and talk.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0035par0370	Look, as the drought continues in our country, meteorology has announced that it will rain.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0043par0371	Here you go, Congressman. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0042par0372	He said thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0035par0373	What did the religion do? The rain prayer, he said.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0042par0374	It rained and prayed and rained.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0035par0375	In the face - to - face training was banned, while the courses of the Quran continued face - to - face. And what did the President of Religion do? The Republic's founder, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, visited a fessified lunatic who insulted him and made a great stain on Dianet. You're destroying an institution of origin.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0044par0376	Congressman, come in, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0035par0377	I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0044par0378	Just finish it, just finish it.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0035par0379	When I saw them, I remembered a verse of Neyzen: Is it possible to worship while being a servant? / Go to bed and pray to Ataturk. / Because of people like you,/ this nation that will cool off from religion. I say, "I salute the love of the Republic, all our citizens who favour independence and freedom."
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0044par0381	Mr. Öztrak, Mr. Bingöl, Mr. Tezcan experienced politicians, they get through without a second. So when our lawmakers ask for a word here, I feel sad, I say it to make it clear. Ali Haydar Hakverdi, please.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0045par0384	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on the State Archives, and I salute the General Assembly. I would like to share with you the 18-year archive of the state, which considers itself a state, not a state. (Applause from the CHP ranks) We will finish corruption, poverty, and custody. You have come, and you have taken the entire state under the care of one man with the freaky presidential system. Unfortunately, terrorists in the government's government arrested and imprisoned our Chief of Staff. The secrets of the state were delivered to terrorists in the cosmic room, given to them what they wanted. Despite allegations of corruption, four ministers have been exonerated by your majority, and this wound remains on the conscience of the nation. At that time Zarrab was laid in front of him, and Zindashti, the drug lord, was evacuated, and the mafia backed him. At the time of the state of Şaş, a bag was put on our soldiers' heads, the shrine of Süleyman Shah was kidnapped, the massacre of Roboski was carried out in Uludere, and the mob you call violent children killed 102 lives at Ankara Station. During the time of the government, the examinations were stolen, and I was satisfied. He made statements and backed them. In the referendum, vote for the dead. There was a call for the dead, and in another, the unsealed votes were counted, and the horse was passed by Skopüdar. Earthquake taxes were smoked, the money collected for martyrs and veterans was drunk; the bridge, where he did not cross with the tax of Mad Dumrul, and the airports where he did not fly, were taken from his citizens' pockets by force. There have been 191 changes in the Public Contraction Law in order to give public tenders to the side. In 18 years, unfortunately, there have been 432 unsolved murders, and when we say, "Let them be investigated." By you, there have been 22 counts of hate crimes and 59 murders in this House. You've put yourself at the center of legitimacy, you've ended residence and democracy. In this period alone, in the 27th century, you did not accept one of our 2.147 legal proposals. You've appointed lawless and arbitrary trustees to the municipalities. You didn't just do this to other parties, you did it to your own municipalities. Gravity, Tophead, Balıkesir, why has he been relieved of duty? Do any of you know who our congressman is? Were they corrupt, did they give you a parcel, or were they just failures? Where were you in all this? If any of you know anything, let him come and tell us, and let the citizens know. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In the state of Şahsim, the heads of the district and managers of the district were appointed judges and prosecutors. The law has become the stick of power, you've done justice. The courts that ruled on their conscience on behalf of the nation began to decide unconscionably on behalf of the court, and you ended the trust in the judiciary. With the do-and-run model, you've siphoned off the citizens' livelihood with 600 percent profit. We're not against the service. Now, you're going to say, "HPP versus road, against bridge." No. The Republican People's Party versus the robbery during the service, against the robbery during the service. (HPP applause) We're playing but working. We're against order; we're honest, without stealing. We're defending order. While people were hungry, committing suicide from unemployment, you and his wife took five-to-five salaries and appointed bureaucrats to suck honey and lick his finger. If that honey is yours, we have nothing to say, but your people, the honey you lick with your finger is forbidden, forbidden; you took it in a jar. [[Applause from CHP rows]] There is waste, persecution, and waste in the archives of the government. He who dwells in luxury in his palace while his people are hungry is not one of us. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0046par0392	Thank you. The order belongs to the Free Karabat. Here you go, Mr. Karabat.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0047par0396	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I've been promised the presidency of the National Courts. When did the President of the National Government of Palaces become President? July 2018, which means he passed through the presidential system less than a month ago. So, lawmakers here, have you made any noise about the transfer of the national palaces that were previously in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to the presidency? Why did you say, "Long live my name!" Dear MPs, do you know why Turkey was in the Grand National Assembly? When Mustafa Kemal Ataturk founded the republic, he was in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey because he said the Sarays were against the regime. Now that you've taken those palaces, you've given them to the ashtray, that's your idea of governance, that's your idea of governance, precious MPs. Here's another thing: President of the National Palaces, Chairman of Communications, Office of Finance, Investment Office, Office of Digital Transformation, valuable deputies in the presidency. What do they do? He does the work of another ministry. Look, I'm pointing out a dangerous point; we've seen the parallel structure before, and now you're creating new parallel structures. When you say there are no two titles in the state, I repeat: there are no two sides in the state, so give up these parallel offices; I say this in particular. And, dear lawmakers, who is in charge of this office, the head of the National Government of Palaces? Yasin Star. Who's that? During the travel resistance, they drank at the mosque. The one who spoke the lie.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0048par0400	You're a fraud.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0047par0401	Now, is it right to put someone at the head of such a national organization who provokes this lie with the Fetullah Gulen press? Do they not ask him, "Where is the dignity of the national palaces?" The liar's candle burns to the night. They say, but the precious lawmakers, the precious government, put fluorescents in your liar's throat, fluorescents. You see this? I just want to say that this budget isn't a cure for anyone. We're asking about the budget: budget budget, we're telling us what you brought us; the budget says "Binth bead." We're calling who? He calls Saraya and the chief. We ask again: budget budget, what have you brought? I've brought interest revenues, honey contracts, he says. We ask who to whom? I swear to God, it's the gang of five. That's the way it is. (HPP) We ask the budget: Who made this budget? The minister did. Where is the minister? Where's the minister? If the story continues, if the story continues like this, if your power continues for another year, what happened to the land? We'll say it's burnt, it's finished, it's burned, it's burned, it's burned, it's burned, it's ashes. That's the case. [[Applause from CHP rows]] There is no cure for the pensioner or the student or the teacher or the police in this budget; you have a poor government that can't solve the problems of the citizen; you have a poor government. I'd like to say that it's election time, they put the chest in, weigh what you've done, put the students on one side who can't pay the loan, and put your gang on the other side. On the one hand, they put their problems on the other side, they put your honeyy bids on the other side. They put up a photo, the Canal İstanbul Project, the Qatar Emiri, and the Istanbul. They hang up their word and put up those who say, "Everything will be fine." They put up those who say, "Everything will be fine." [[Applause from CHP rows]] On the one hand, they put a picture of 34 of our fallen soldiers in Syria, and on the other side, they put a picture of your President waiting at Putin. They ask, shouting, "We're quarterbacks." They put a picture of your ministers saying, "We're quarterbacks." On the other side, they put a picture of the shopkeeper who can't even set up a counter. Dear lawmakers, on the one hand, put a picture of the Kaz Mountains, our plains, our mountains, and put in international companies that you've been chasing, and on the other side you can't cross the road. They put Mehmetçikuks. [[Applause from CHP rows]] On one side they put happy palaces, happy chiefs, live palaces. On the other side they put the opposition that says, "Happy Turkey is our target."
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0049par0414	It's Mr. Atila Sertel's turn to speak. Here you go, Mr. Sertel.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0050par0416	Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, whatever happened to Turkey happened because of these two hats. This is the AKP President's hat, and I didn't take off the label, and it says "Londra" as in loan sharks, and this is the party president's hat. Now, while Turkey is actually in a state of distress, our Deputy Group Presidents have told me to come out and speak to them about the President of Communications. I'm not going to get into his salary, his five paychecks, his charity, but I want to get into something. This friend has become a small Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Turkey and is acting like one. He gives you a press pass, doesn't give you what you want, cancels what you want. For example, there was Genghis Tarhan, the owner of the newspaper Ululırmak in Aksaray, who I loved very much, who was recently deceased, who had this friend's permanent press card, which they canceled. Again, there's a structure like Merdan Yanardağ, who's spent his life in nothing but journalism, who hasn't given away a man's card in two years. They've become little Recep Tayyip Erdogan, they've all put themselves somewhere. While this pergolaci is making illegal pergolas to the treasury, our mayor takes a photo of a friend at the behest of Kaftancıoğlu, our mayor, Mr. Canan Kaftancıoğlu, they ask for ten and a half years in prison, ten and a half years. You're going to smuggle into the land of treasure...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0051par0417	Pergola!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0050par0418	Yeah. You're going to legitimize the fugitive, and you're going to swallow it as a man at the top of the state, and then you're going to paint it for ten and a half years, and I told you, the owner of this hat couldn't deliver his party to anyone, ever. Davutoglu took a break, and he found out that Davutoglu was really trying to do something, and Davutoglu threw him down. Then he ran for office in Izmir, and he ran for office in Istanbul; and he did not do it; he had always failed in the elections. The AKP's President never left his hat and won't leave it, but with this hat, history will bury them in the graves of the old parties in this election, I know that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, with this hat he gives the most incredible insults to Kemal Kilicdaroglu and to all opposition leaders, HDP (HDP), IİPARTİ, Republican People's Party, other parties, everyone, but when he is answered, he immediately puts this hat on his head. The authorities, prosecutors, come to me, they insult me. What are they doing? He says I'm untouchable. The fact that you're using these two hats together is the main cause of all problems in Turkey. (HPP) The presidents used to be presidents of the entire nation. Recep Tayyip Erdogan doesn't like the pensioner, he puts them in houses like he put them in jail, and in the end, all pensioners receive nine million of 13.2 million pensioners under minimum wage. Shame on you! He doesn't like the peasant. He doesn't like the worker. The mine workers have worked, they want what they can get; either the friend sends the police after him, sends the police after him. Is that so unconscionable? And he doesn't like the peasant. Look at the farms, the villagers, no matter what they sow, they cause trouble, no matter what they sow, and no matter what they sow, they cause trouble. What the Minister of Agriculture was talking about yesterday, in the palace, in the palace. When you look at it from the palace, life is so beautiful, especially when you put it in five paychecks, 10 paychecks, all the former ministers, some of the former lawmakers, some of the ambassadors, some of the rectors, some of the board members, some of the Deputy Minister. You don't like young people, you don't like retired people, you don't like PTT officers, you don't like firemen, you don't even accept them as a profession; you don't love anyone. You know what you love? A small family. They don't even like AKP lawmakers, and if they did, would they waste their friends like this?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0052par0424	Even the Minister doesn't do that.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0050par0425	It's just his family and himself. Recep Tayyip Erdogan is a passenger in this election, Abbas, he won't stop. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0053par0428	The order belongs to Mr. Free Ceylan Bey. Here you go, Mr. Ceylan.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0054par0431	Mr. President, I've been promised the presidential office, the President of Strategy and Budget, and my party over the revenue budget. I salute your high council. Friends, unfortunately, we're discussing a budget prepared in the kitchen of the palace that carries water to the mill of the interest lobby you've been complaining about for years. Mr. Erdogan, in his speech on June 19, 2018: "This courtship and so forth, none of this is what determines our future, but we will determine our future." On the 24th, you give this brother the authority, and then you will see how to deal with this interest, with this, with this. He said, "You all remember this conversation." Vote for us in the 2014 elections, we'll fly Turkey. He said, "Well, did he fly?" I want to make a short comparison: South Korea and Turkey's economic indicators were similar in the 1980s. At that time, Turkey's illegal domestic product was 33 per cent higher than South Korea. We had $2,169 per person and $1,711 per person in South Korea. In 2019, we have $9.042 per person and $3,762 per person in South Korea. South Korea invested in people, in the production economy, and that's where it came from. What about us? The palace has invested in public-private co-operation projects, subcontractors, and the cost of $1 has been $5. It's not Turkey, but it's definitely the sidekick. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Honorable lawmakers, Mr. Vice President, in the budget presentation, represent the route leading to our journey to development. We aim to prepare the budget with a result-oriented approach rather than inputs. So, what else do we have to do to see you land the ship on this route? With this budget, you're feeding the interest lobby you're supposed to be against. The interest payments reached 180 billion, the budget deficit reached 245 billion, and the budget deficit exceeded 4 per cent of the national income. Turkey has been turned into a country that is owed high interest. You've made Turkey a disposable country, like a son who inherits everything he's got. You can't get different results by repeating the same mistakes. Your actions are similar to the repeated mistakes of the Ottoman era. From the second half of the 1800s, there were almost no more capitulations, and after 1860, the state was in debt with the understanding of paying off the debt. The result was the Pronouncer, who rode on the back of the young republic. Dear friends, consumer loans and credit card debts have increased $239 billion since New Year's Eve. In your period, the total interest the citizen paid the banks due to credit card and consumer credits has reached $591 billion. Do you know what Erbakan would say to you if he were alive? You're a lot of interest-makers, you know. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Vice President, do you want to be objective? The result: The number of unemployed registered to İSKUR increased from 587 thousand in 2003 to 4 million in October 2019. The result: Citizen's debt to banks increased from $6 billion in 2002 to 829 billion in November 2020. The result: 95 thousand couples divorced in 2002, while 155,000 couples divorced at the end of 2019. The result is that the dollar, which is $1.67 in November 2002, is now 7.86; the euro, which is 1,66, is 9.56; in 18 years, Turkish lira melts like oil. And the result: rising inflation, the poverty our citizens face because of increasing unemployment, is desperate youth, unhappy tradesmen, unhappy farmers, unhappy retired, but happy supporters. [[Applause from CHP rows]] This budget is the budget of waste, luxury and luxury - flying, fleeing, floating summer palaces and winter palaces. It is the budget of a presidency that says, "There is no saving power." It is the budget of a presidency that condemns the hunger of its citizens. Yours truly.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0055par0443	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0056par0444	Mr. Rich, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0055par0447	Mr. President, first of all, Mr. Ismail Demir here, yesterday, of course, was an important day for Turkey, which means I would like to thank him for his service to our country. I also want to thank you on behalf of our group and on behalf of our nation, for what he has done as President of Defense Industries is extremely important to Turkey. Not only Turkey, but your objection to the system of the world, I think, is a consequence, a point to come. In that sense, unlike here, the statements made by political party groups last night were extremely important in the name of unity, unity, and I'd like to first express it, Mr. President, and I'd like to say thank you. Of course, no, it's the work we're going to do today. Now, my dear friends, one by one, of course, we've been through some very difficult, long conversations, but I'd like to say a few things, and for that reason, we need to think about these criticisms in two dimensions. Now, when a certain volume is exceeded by criticism, there are two basic problems. First of all, he's losing credibility. The other important thing is that you want to be the only man when you say you want to be the only one, so I want to be the one, and I want to be the one. So, if you're running for president, there's a system that you're describing, you're repeating it, you're repeating it like a virt -- which we strongly deny -- that's your coding -- that's what you're saying in business, and when you look at it like that, you think the level of perception of a citizen is at the elementary school level. The citizen will bring us water and bring us water, citizen ordinaryus...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0057par0451	Miss Özlem, we'll give you one last minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0055par0453	Is it that short, Mr. President? But, please, Mr. President. So our citizen's perception, his assessment of life, is not on a floor like this, but on an extremely high level of assessment. With these expressions, you're actually interested in them yourself, so before you forget them, you need to use these harsh words, these expressions. I mean, I really think we're dealing with an incredible dose. Now, you repeat, the living, the execution is in the hands of one person. Yeah, who's gonna believe that, who's gonna believe that? So you're in on it, too? What do you mean? In Turkey, legislation is separate; it is something that we have always highlighted from the beginning. Oh, you're talking about buying. That's what they say about you, so that's what they say in public all the time. Go around and see what you're called. That's it, the vote that's been in the chest for 18 years is kicking? I mean, I can't believe it. Since when do you want to kick in the chest to make a statement? So, if you look at it the way I say it, does the citizen kick you? Is that what you're saying? I mean, that's really not gonna happen. Oh, you're going to look at people's houses. Yeah, when... look, if there's a crime, if you believe that, you have the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality in your hands. Then... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I mean, I don't know, it's...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0058par0459	Miss Özlem, we've made a statement from the beginning. Thank you. Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0059par0462	Mr. President, one second... then there's a procedure, and I don't like it, but for the record, I have to say two things. It's about the imam orator. Look, today the Eagle is being mocked by the Anatolian Hatip High School. This school is currently receiving 1% students in Turkey, and has received more than 0.7 per cent of students to close this year. So this is what it looks like: don't let the Galatasaray High students go anywhere. I'm thinking it's a continuation of the still-existing phobia of the imam orator.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0060par0465	Other Imam oratories...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0059par0466	Because it's because that school got a student with the same high score, nothing to do with his name. It's like, why aren't there 10 more Galatasaray High Schools? There's one at that school, that's what it's about, success, high bar.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0061par0467	Well, thank you, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0059par0468	No, one second, Mr. President, and one more thing. Look, when we're talking about what we're going through, we're not talking about on the platforms as a story, we're talking about ourselves as an abuse, not to benefit from it. And Mr. President, two minutes, that's it, two minutes to talk for 70 minutes is really too little. The rules, yes, but they're exceptional. I think we need to get past this. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0062par0473	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0063par0475	I agree with Miss Miss Özlem, it's not enough for two minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0059par0476	Yeah, it's not enough.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0063par0477	I'll tell you this: we don't want to hurt each other at all, but what are we discussing, we're discussing the presidential budget. In the presidential budget... the President is leaving today. He says we'll give 750 liras and 1,000 liras for the rents. Look, guys, how can you say this? I'm not saying, I'm reading the 2019 Court's Report: "The cost of food for the palace is $3,22,000." What are we gonna do? It says 13.4 million liras in clothing. What are we gonna tell them? The amount spent on drinking is 1.3 million. How do we tell people? The costs of the service building, which cannot be moved, are worth 10 billion euros. What do we say to people who walk the road, who go on buses? The asset funds say $63.7 billion. What are we gonna do? Payment for Ataturk Airport is $3 billion in compensation for irregularity. The price of bridges that can't be crossed is $98.5 billion. Yeah, well, I'm leaving it all, and it hurts, and the palace is spent $748 million on additional buildings by the end of 2020, 748 million. Do you know how much money was spent on the summer house in Okluk Bay? 105 million dollars. Twenty-two million dollars were spent on the estate. Right now, the total money spent on these palaces is $211.8 billion, friends. Now, what would the citizen say if you went back to the citizen and said, "We're enough." (HPP clapping in rows) We're good enough for you to leave us alone. Friends, let's not hurt each other about imam-haters. It's the Republican People's Party that founded the Imams. The Republican People's Party founded the seminary.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0064par0479	Mr. Engin, who's closing?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0065par0480	Whose coefficient is it, the coefficient?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0063par0481	It is the People's Party of the Republic that established the chairmanship of the Ministry of Religious Affairs.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0066par0483	Mr. Ozkoch, one minute, please.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0063par0484	In order for our imams to grow right, let our mosques be full of people, let our oppressors not be silent, let the congregation be blessed, not sheikhs... I don't want to tell the terrorist organization what you guys did. Here are the reports, the commission of the terrorist organization says in the commission before this, the President says: "We have warned the state." The president asks, why did you warn him and not? I don't know about that, President. It's a matter of negotiation between them and the one who's managed them so far. They've been getting along so far, they're not getting along because of what bargain...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0067par0486	Come to the Imam-hatred.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0068par0487	What's with the coefficient ban, coefficient ban?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0063par0488	Here, in the transcripts. There he says it's among them. We are against those who use religious politics like the Fetullahist terrorist organization, but we have won the Battle of Salvation to make sure that God's oppressor never shuts up in this country.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0069par0490	Thank you. A tease...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0070par0492	Mr. Engin, you didn't say anything to the coefficient.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0071par0493	Sarcasm, yes.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0072par0494	Where did I pick on you, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0073par0495	What did he say, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0074par0496	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0075par0498	Now, Mr. President, the problem is, what they're saying, amenna, yes, you did, amenna, religion, and actually, I wish we could open it up and look at the history of the Dianet. So, why was Ezan studied in Turkish for 13 years in this country? Why did you bring the bans on imam-gap high schools to disrupt the entire national education system? Why did you try so hard to keep the imam-hating high school graduates out of the country?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0073par0499	Even the General Secretary of the General Staff was an imam-hakip graduate!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0075par0500	I mean, it's true, it's true, every word of it, but we're, of course, glad that we've come to this point, even though it's a little late, Turkey has come here -- if it weren't for these bans, these terrorist organizations wouldn't have been able to get into this kind of thing. Look, don't forget, they talked people into it, normally... think about it, people had to take ablution in the sinks and pray there, and they had to hide themselves.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0073par0502	You've been in power for 18 years, your substance abuse has exploded!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0075par0503	So, my dear friends, I don't think you should get involved in this imam-hakim thing, let your friends never bring it up, let's just drop it. I don't think you have anything to say about that.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0076par0505	Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0073par0506	Eighteen years of substance abuse, come on!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0077par0507	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0076par0508	I'm gonna take a break, so... Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0077par0511	We're doing just fine, but... Let's not let Miss Ozlem decide what I'm going to say, please, let's not do this.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0078par0513	I'm not telling you, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0077par0514	A question is being asked to President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of the Fetulistic terrorist organization... in CNN Türk. He says: "This Fetullahist terrorist organization grew up in your time." What do you call it? He clearly says: "Yes, I admit it, it grew up in our time, we gave them what they wanted.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0078par0516	No, no, that's not what he's saying.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0077par0517	CNN is in Turk... open, open, friends, don't argue with me at all, open, say "CNN Turkish and President Erdogan" and it'll come out there.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0079par0518	The coefficient, the coefficient...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0077par0519	Now, if you give them what they want, if you open all their doors, if you let them go, only in the gendarmes, 70 percent of the staff, the Fetullahist terrorist organization, while his brother is holding the general from the terrorist organization there, you appoint his brother as an ambassador... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You have no right to come after that and lecture us about it. You have no right.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0080par0523	Okay, thank you. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0081par0526	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, we've listened to the speakers, sir; they've spent a lot of their testimony, sir, on the small part of the ruling regime. We are the Cumhur Alliance; we have an open, transparent, non-negotiable, courageous, brave partnership. (MHP and AK PARTY) But you're embarrassed and bored of your partnership, you can't say it clearly, one. Second, the presidential government system doesn't collect powers single-handedly, eliminates multiple heads, and you still defend custody authorities, and you're also passive opposition, passive opposition because you don't have your own agenda, you're focused only on anti-government, and you're also strangely condemned to the language of power -- very sorry -- like the miller's village horse, you're circling around the language of power. The President's office, which you call "Saray," is what you call the Presidential Alliance, but you're saying the National Movement Party is too big for you, you're suffering because the Nationalist Movement Party is too big for you, because you're the White House beggars who are responsible, who are responsible for the problem, they're responsible, they're self-involved, they're self-involved, they're active, they're active, they're active, they're active, they're active, they're active, they're asking the White House for power from the United States White House.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0082par0531	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0083par0533	I beg your pardon, Mr. President. How big the MHP is for us; where do you live, and where do we live? (CHP) People are voting for who's big and who's not.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0084par0534	Mr. Mussad is being taken.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0083par0535	As for this side, I have a promise for them. Look, if the opposition had stood by the opposition and stood by the opposition, the nation would not have been in this situation.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0085par0537	They're standing right next to the truth.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0086par0538	Next to the truth, next to the truth!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit01spe0087par0541	Members of parliament, the Republic of Turkey strives to meet the necessity of being a sovereign state and produce its own technology. In recent years, the most successful examples of domestic and national production are also found in the field of defence industry. Meanwhile, a number of steps are taken to punish Turkey's independent and successful move, to disrupt its rising momentum. The decision of the United States of America for Defence Industry President Ismail Demir ▪ and other bureaucrats working in the same field must be judged in this scope. A government official is being punished by the U.S. Treasury Ministry and put on the list of sanctions just because he is trying to do his duty to the Turkish nation. This ignorance, which harms diplomatic kindness or universal law norms, should be perceived as a direct punishment for the Republic of Turkey, not a person. My personal opinion is that the treatment of Mr. Ismail Demir and the Turkish bureaucrats has been met with a reaction from our nation. I'd like to announce that, too. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0087par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. 1) presidential Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Central Management Final Account for the presidency 2019 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2021 Central Management Budget 2) National Intelligence Agency Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2021 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board Secretary General 2019 Central Management Terms C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget of 2021 2) The Central Management Final Account for the President of Religious Affairs 2019 1) President of State Archives 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Archives Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget of 2021 2) Central Management Final Account for the Executive Board of National Palaces 2019 1) Strategy and Budget President 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Communication Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account THE PRESIDENT OF THE SURVIVATION [[Continue]] 1) Defence Industry Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Defence Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 The commission is in place. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Abdullah is in Right.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0088par0040	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group in the 2021 presidential budget bill. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. Mr. President, after the July 15th traitorous coup attempt by the MP, thanks to the Cumhur Alliance, which we formed against the enemies of Turkey, we are moving with confidence towards our great and powerful Turkey goal, despite all the gangs that are involved in the thorn and the betrayal of our union from Pennsylvania to Europe. In 2017, the Presidential government system was adopted in our country, thanks to the Republic Alliance, which gave the world almost a lesson in democracy by crowning it with such a high turnout as 86 per cent of our beloved nation. Thanks to the new system adopted by the Republic of Turkey, the AK PARTI has accelerated its rise-up country's graphics and assessed its power in the national and international arena. With the presidential government system, there has been a presidential office that has ended the period of unlimited officials and irresponsible Presidents, which answers to our nation. Our beloved nation of independence, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has chosen him as his leader. A single man's regime and the speech of the fucking didictatorship against our President, elected by national will, is an example of a great political ignorance and a great disrespect to the will of our nation. These statements, unfortunately, offer greetings to terrorist organizations, lubricate the hands of coupgers, and allow imperial forces to rub their hands. Turkey has always avoided the treacherous games played on it, with the ability to make quick decisions brought by the presidency's government system. The whims of the scoundrels who threatened our national security by dreaming of forming a terrorist state beyond our borders have been left behind. In our country and on our borders, enemies of our state's future and future have been wiped out, and terror in Turkey is almost broken. Mr. President, due to the stability of the presidential government system, the gang of traitors who think our Turkish Armed Forces is the object of treason has completely lost hope and declared to the world that the period of coups in Turkey has been closed. On the outside and on the inside, the poor have learned that their efforts against the power of Turkey are futile, assuming that it will interfere with our country's progress with cheap threats and lying politics. With the presidential government system, the concepts such as prosperity, development, security in Turkey have been placed on more solid ground, and Turkey's unitary structure and Bekali have been fully protected by our sainted nation. The Covid-19 pandemic, which dominates the world, and the key factor in Turkey's success in rising despite the chaos of the world, is the decisive stance of world leader Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Turkey has been freed from the darkness of the past with its EC PARTI governments, and has been strengthened by the presidential government system and has set sail for new horizons. As a result of revolutionary steps in the interests of our nation, from health to health, agriculture to economics, from defence industry to social policy, the light picture has proved our path in the direction of our goal of 2023. Those who try to bring Turkey into a dark veil must learn very clearly that under the leadership of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, this ancient state will reach its 2023 goals with the permission of Allah and the support of our beloved nation, while leaving its vision of 2053 and 2071 as the most powerful legacy to future generations. Hopefully, we'll accept the third budget of our EC PARTY government's 19th and presidential government system, our nation's budget, in our nation's Assembly. I wish our country and our nation the best of the year 2021, my love and respect for the General Council and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0089par0051	The order belongs to Mr. Gülay Samancı. Here you go, Mr. Hayman.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0090par0054	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget for the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021. I salute your High Council. First of all, there are many hopes behind the hopelessness; there are many suns behind the darkness. With his words, I remember with mercy and gratitude all our spiritual architects. Dear lawmakers, when we look at our political history, the instability from these crises that have been constantly experienced in parliamentary systems has always been an obstacle to the development of our country. The challenges of the 2007 presidential election have left our country facing the need to organise a new election and government system. The crisis at that day's General Assembly and after the Constitutional Court's decision has put the country in great political and economic straits. The presidential government system has ended the majority of the few in the past with the needs of our age and its structure, which does not conflict with Turkish administrative traditions, and the frequent political dilemmas. With the new system, the faster, more flexible, more transparent decision-making mechanism has been activated. Legislature and execution are clearly divided from certain lines, and the principle of separation of forces is clearly established. In this case, Turkey's Grand National Assembly is continuing its legislative activity representing the will of the nation, while it is focused on producing policies and services with the support of policy boards formed directly in the presidency. In the same way, with the new government system, Turkey's Grand National Assembly has become stronger, the right of the nation's MPs to offer directly the law. Dear lawmakers have been allowed to benefit from public services regardless of language, faith and ethnic origins, who have been excluded from the process of ruling alone by the EC PARTI, whose rights have been restored to this day. (AK PARTI) Reforms in production and economic development goals and social liberalisation of ideas and freedom of thought, fighting and transport in the field of democratisation, industrialisation, the integration of modern technology in health, and the development of our cities, have also earned the appreciation of our people in many areas. While all these investments and services were being brought to our country, we continued to deal with domestic and external terrorist activities, antidemocratic actions, all the impositions and hardships that the old system brought. On the 15th of July, the traitor who intended our future is a witness to the attempt. Praise be to Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who led by our nation's determination has also come out of this disgrace with all obstacles to our country's aims. Congressmans, in the world of economic and political change, our goal is to develop and improve our country in line with our goals. In addition to the turmoil in the world and in our region, however, the pandemic process has had negative effects on our country's economy. Our government continues to support our citizens in this area, according to the principle of the social state, in which our shopkeepers, workers, and employers are affected by direct payment and incentives. This budget is not a waste budget as claimed, but rather the budget of our workers, our tradesmen, our employees, basically our entire nation from seven to seventy. (EC PARTY) As explained by our President, we will launch a new era of economic and legal reform in co-operation and dialogue with all our public institutions and relevant sections. In unity and unity with these reforms, we are confident that we will take our country further and further. As in all areas, there is a Turkey in the defense of our country, with our heroic army, the world's most ancient military force, to trust our friends on our borders and beyond our borders, to terrorize our enemies. Any attempt at our non-divisible integrity with the systems that our defense industry has recently developed has been successfully neutralized. He wishes that the outbreak of Covid-19, which threatens the entire world and our country, would quickly come to an end and return to healthy days, and to those who have lost their lives in the process, I pray the grace of God, and to those who have been treated with immediate healing. He wishes our presidential budget to be a blessing to our country and nation, and I pay my respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0091par0063	The order belongs to Mr. Hasan Çilez. Here you go, Mr. Strawberry.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0092par0066	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with the deepest respect and love of our dear and noble nation. May the mercy and blessings of my Lord be upon us all. [[AK PARTY]] I have made a commitment to the budget of our presidency for 2021 years. The year 2020 was a difficult and difficult year with epidemics, earthquakes, floods and droughts. Under the leadership of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we have successfully fought these plagues. During this time, the opening of the Ayasophian Mosque, the liberation of Karabakh (Karabakh) from the occupation, the opening of Marash (marash) to the settlement and the discovery of natural gas were a source of morale for our nation. Our budget for 2021, which is the third budget of the presidential government system, will be a blessing for our nation, which is running towards its goals of 2023, 2053, 2071, with the power of the Cumhur Alliance. I want to thank everyone who's worked so hard on the budget. Almost all of what to say on the budget was said, criticisms were made, criticisms were respected, but more political rhetoric, distorted, incomplete, and untrue than budget criticism, there was a majority of allegations, including insults. Some MPs who were on the stand spoke for social media on YouTube. In fact, we've also seen videos far from the truth, where we're trying to create perceptions with false tweets. (EC PARTY) In fact, there were those who confirmed the abuses and rapes at their parties and said there would be a sequel. And there were some who thought they were wise and called our AK Party Group "Acahiller", and there were those who said they were soldiers. We've answered all of them. We have reminded you of the judgement of the people who have no knowledge. We excited Mr. Kilicdaroglu, who said he was a soldier. Are you Aday? The CHP Group also jumped to their feet to share in the exciting response of Kilicdaroglu, who was surprised and paused at our question. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As for the lead soldier, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, it's not just me and the AK Party Group, it's the lead and the soldier when our entire patriotic nation is in place. Every Turkish soldier is born. The slogan is embroidered in our hearts, minds, and souls. (ARK PARTY) The expression of the bullet is that each of us is a bullet in the forehead of the enemy, the traitor, the troublemaker when it comes to it. We are the ones who say, "The rest of the country is a thing. " We are those who say, "The rest of the country is a thing. " We are those who say, "The mother, the father, the wife, the son, and the soul; and those who read some history, and those who know this nation. " Opposition parties use methods such as constructive opposition, criticism, solution proposals to come to power, acting within democratic boundaries; they do not seek help from the president of the United States beyond the ocean; they cannot make friendship with them to take power. By handing the rope over to others, this country is ruled by national and domestic policies and positions. You're not gonna get anywhere by sounding like a coup d'état with veiled alliances, secret constitutional studies, attacks on the values of the nation and our oppressor. You will be troubled and troubled by the condition of this nation, and you will share in its joy. So, whose budget is this? This budget is the budget of patriots who know the future's common future and fate for the great and powerful Turkey. This budget is the budget of 83 million people who call it Turkey together. (AK PARTY) It is the budget of the parents who gave their child a martyr, who said, "Thank you for the mercy of the nation." (AK PARTY) This budget is the budget of the Turkish army from its military to its general, fighting terrorists and enemies relentlessly for the uninterrupted integrity of our country. This budget is the budget of farmers who plowed the land across our country and produced a thousand kinds of nebatates; in our Amassia, they produced apples, okra, cherries, onions, sugar beets. This budget is the budget of our people and workers who export all over the world what they produce in factories. This budget is the budget of my fellow miners who mined and worked hundreds of metres beneath the ground on the entire country's surface, working in Soma, Zonguldak, and Amasya Çeltek mines. This budget is the budget of my brothers and sisters who transport products from city to city to country, day and night, without calling it snow. This is the provision of my brother, a well-to-do salesman. This budget is the budget of our public officials who serve with the motto of the state. This budget is the budget of our health army, which shielded its chest in the fight against Covid-19. This budget is the budget of our teachers and scientists, who, under all circumstances, have worked hard to educate our young, each of us, and have worked hard on us. This budget is the budget of our young and young children to whom we will entrust the future. This budget is the budget of our engineers in the blue country who search for natural gas and oil and protect our rights and interests, the drone, the IRA, the tank, the cannon, the rifle, the helicopter, the domestic auto-producing engine. This budget is the budget of our athletes who waved our glorious flag in the mail and made us read the Istrillal March. This budget is the budget of my disabled brothers and sisters who have no heart. Again, this budget is the budget of our elders and pensioners, the mouth-to-mouth blessing that leaves this country in trust. On this occasion, I wish our budget of 2021 to be a blessing to our beloved and noble nation, the Veterans Assembly, with respect and respect.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0093par0076	The order belongs to Ali Cumhur Taşkın Bey. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0094par0079	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the National Intelligence Agency's 2021 budget. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, intelligence has been created as a vital concept for state survival since ancient times. Historical experiences have shown that the complex mechanism called the state is impossible to function and survive without intelligence support. The National Intelligence Agency, which operates intelligence work which is indispensable to the back of our state, operates in the framework of State Intelligence Services 2937 and National Intelligence Agency Act, successfully and abroad to protect our national interests, with a vision of being able to respond effectively and effectively in the face of threats aimed at national security and interests of our country, as part of its mission and responsibility. Mr. President, the year 2020 has been a very difficult year for all countries. The global competition of the United States, the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China, including the Covid epidemic, and the global strategy of the United States of America against Israel in the Middle East and Iran, the election in the United States, the deployment of Israel into new business units in the Middle East, the turning of Israel into hot conflict in Upper Karabağ, and the return of Azerbaijan to the territory of Azerbaijan, and the development of our country directly or indirectly related to international security religions, such as the new blocifications in the Eastern Mediterranean. Global and regional actors in conflict zones such as Syria, Iraq, Libya and Yemen are areas that need to be closely monitored and reacted in the interests of our country. During this time, the National Intelligence Agency made game-changing moves in Syria, the Eastern Mediterranean and Libya. Regional and international forces have clearly seen that there is no longer a play in this region without Turkey. There is no more Turkey. There's an actor Turkey, not an extra. There's a powerful, great, leader Turkey that corrupts dirty games, plays under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Mr. President, good lawmakers, it is impossible to succeed in counterterrorism without intelligence. Our country deals simultaneously with armed terrorist organisations with different ideology and resources, such as PKK, Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), DEAŞ, Al Qaeda and DHKP-C. When we look at it, there are very few countries facing so many threats at the same time. In the fight against terrorism, the National Intelligence Agency has achieved serious success in tackling PKK and other terrorist organisations with its strategy to neutralize and destroy the main vertebrae leading to the organisation at its source. Again, telecommunications in the fight against ا has deciphered the organisation's security archive and privacy, revealing their dark faces. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, history has shown that powerful intelligence agencies are behind powerful states. In this respect, it is important for our national security to encourage the National Intelligence Agency to win new technologies and to invest and have opportunities to take one step ahead in competition with services on the world scale. I hereby express our gratitude and gratitude to our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has made the number of intelligence services in the world with the support of our nation's proud National Intelligence Agency, working with self-subsistence for the safety and interests of our country. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Finally, I thank his organization, all of our anonymous heroes who serve his country and nation in our National Intelligence Agency today, and ask God's mercy, health and pleasure to our veterans, who have sacrificed their lives during their missions. I wish the budget of 2021 to be good for our government and our nation, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0095par0092	The order belongs to Mr. Yalçın Akdoğan. Here you go, Mr. Akdoğan.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0096par0095	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I salute you with respect and conversation. I have made a commitment to the National Security Board Secretary General budget. The establishment of the Secretary General of the National Security Board is based on 1933. It is based on the High Defence Council and the Public Clerk, which was established in accordance with the concept of national mobilisation at the time. After World War II, of course, a lot of things changed; when the national defence concept came first, his name was changed to the National Defence High Council, and then the concept of national security across the world became heavy, and the National Security Council and the Secretaryship was established in Turkey with the 1961 Constitution. Looking at it this way, the change in name of the Council and the Secretary General is actually the same time as the change in the national security phenomenon. The country's threats and risks, challenges and dangers required that its concept of national security cannot be dealt with only by military power and capacity, but at the same time by more versatile strategies, more integrated security concepts. This required that not only the Armed Forces, but all the institutions that constitute the total power of the country work in co-direction, but all units act in the highest degree of coordination. Taking national security and national interests as a whole requires the Council and the Secretariat to be equipped with tasks and powers according to the requirements of time. The 2nd article of Law No. 2945 describes national security as the protection and protection of all interests of the constitutional order of the state, national existence, integrity, political, social, cultural and economics in the international area, and the protection and protection of the covenant law against all external and domestic threats. Of course, a lot of changes have been made, and in 2003, a number of laws have been radically changed within the framework of the European Union's acquisitor. In 2017, Law No. 6771 was introduced to the public. In all of this, the mission of the National Security Council has been defined as the position of the presidency to report to the presidency on the adoption of recommendations on the appointment, determination and implementation of the state's national security policy. The concept of national security, not only about military or terrorist threats and threats, but new concepts such as cyber security, energy supply security, food safety, economic security, and national security, require that national security be dealt with more broadly. The Secretary General also performs the tasks given by the Council, as well as analyses, reviews, evaluations on the concept of national security. The Secretary General's budget for 2020 was 34.7 million and 38 million in 2021. Dear friends, the National Security Council has its counterparts in the countries of the European Union, and in many countries around the world. From this point of view, the main thing is that these boards operate on the constitutional ground and in accordance with the spirit of democracy. The National Security Council, perceived as an institution of custody at one time, has recently fulfilled its original functions in Turkey, in line with normalisation of military-military relations. So once upon a time, the High Military Sûra, the National Security Council meetings, the turnover ceremonies, the graduation ceremonies are subject to some tensions, crises, while today's normalisation is effectively carrying out their original duties and thus Turkey becomes a regional force. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] So with this harmony and coordination, Turkey is able to perform military operations in many regions at the same time; it can put forth an effective fight against terrorism; it can protect its national interests from the Eastern Mediterranean to the Middle East, to the Caucasus -- i.e. the use of soft and military power at the same time, making Turkey a regional force. Because of this harmony and coordination, the Peace Fountain, the Firat Shield, the Spring Shield, the Olive Branch Operation was performed, and because Turkey's regional power became a regional force, the European Union, on one hand, entered the line of sanctions in the United States. The United States has committed a grave error by not doing what is necessary in the matter of Patriot and F35. Now he's decided to make a second major mistake. Against all of this, I say Turkey will again demonstrate its national security and the success of protecting its national interests at the same time. May our budget prosper, and I salute you with all my heart's respect.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0097par0107	It's Mr. Imran's turn to speak. Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0098par0110	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our dear nation, your precious presence, I salute you with respect and love. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Its constitutional duty is to conduct religious affairs, to enlighten the people about religion, to manage the places of worship, and to work in the direction of unity and unity, our Ministry of Religious Affairs has evolved from the Office of the Meshihatk in Osman, and is founded by the Bani of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. In the 1st Church of Religion in 1993, the issue of presidential autonomy has come to the agenda and has been made. In light of the Koran, circumcision, accurate knowledge, historical experience, and savings, it has made its duty to do its duty in order to promote unity, unity, equality, justice, cooperation, solidarity, love, respect, rights, and spread among our people. On the other hand, both mosque services and outside mosques have been an effort to perform their services abroad and abroad. There's always been debate over the presidency, and there's always been debate about it today. Some have said that there is no religious institution in secular rule; some of the religious ones have also said that there is no secular religion; the majority of the people have always argued that it is essential in terms of unity, in terms of unity, and for the sake of our state, for the sake of our nation, for the sake of our country, for the sake of the state. Of course, as an institution, the Head of Religious Affairs may have shortcomings, religious officials may have faults, may have faults, may have pros. According to us, there is only one person who is undisputed and who will be our role model, our Lord Muhammad Mustafa (SAV). Other than that, it could be anyone's fault, it could be their fault. Mistakes made by transgressors and outcasts can't cost the great Muslim majority. For all the prophets and the prophets fought for the protection of religion, of the soul, of the mind, of the property, and of the generation. They have commanded honor to mankind, and have forbidden oppression, and have exalted knowledge, and have forbidden bigotry. Men and women, large and small, there is no distinction between men; we are all children of Adam. The difference between race and language is neither color nor color; it is God who created both the white and the black and the race and this race. The licenses are the pens of God; they are not forbidden, nor are they forbidden, nor are they forbidden anywhere. Economics is ordered, idleness is forbidden. There is no clergy, there is no clergy, there is no religious service. Religious and religious officials can be criticised, but they can't attack religion, they can't attack Muslims. Otherwise, we did not forget the days when the clergy were despised, the Muslims were not replaced, our mosques were destroyed, our meetings were sold, our meetings were banned, our oppressors were silenced from 1932 to 1950. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And no one can claim that's not the case. At that time, our people had found a serf: "Believe in the squares that cannot come out,/ in the mosque!" But he had never stopped shouting: "Those who stink at the time, say to me, 'We have risen to the ground, and they think we have risen to the ground.'" I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0099par0121	The order belongs to Mr. Niyazi Sun Bey.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0100par0123	Mr. President, I have made a commitment on behalf of our group on the budget of the President of Religious Affairs as part of the budget talks. I salute and honor your high council and our beloved nation. The Ministry of Religious Affairs was founded to deem things of faith, worship and morality of Islamic religion, to enlighten our people with the right religious knowledge, to rule the places of worship. From the day it was founded, the presidency is based on two fundamental pillars of Islamic religion, the Qur'an and the true circumcision of the Prophet. The key mission of the President of the Ministry of Religious Affairs is to convey the light message of our religion to our people, and for the presidency, these issues are indistinguishable sensibilities. From his close experience, the President of the Religious Affairs has always protected his main line. From the improbability of his establishment, he has made many important assignments today. He's an officer of the Ministry of Religious Affairs in every corner of our country. The only institution of our state that serves as far as the remotest settlement is the President of the Religious Affairs. Outside of our country, it is the embassies of our country with 2,177 religious officials in nearly 100 continents. The Head of Religious Affairs is not just a religious service for our people abroad, but the name of the struggle to exist with an identity and essence. The public is pleased with the reputation of visual, written, and audio publications prepared by the Ministry of Religious Affairs and presented to the benefit of our people. It is our basic desire that legal work on the Dianet Academy, which I have reminded you of in my speech last year, which has been on the agenda of the presidency for a long time. Dear lawmakers, we witnessed a major incident in our country on Friday, July 24, 2020. The mosque of Ayasofya was appointed to be president of the Dianet Works after eighty-six years. Ayasofia, the symbol of conquest, is primarily a temple and a foundation. Thinking about it through prejudices and some obsessions, the opening of Ayasofia as a mosque was a decision that everyone would be pleased with. Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, once again on behalf of our nation, I give thanks from the Parliamentary platform. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Congressmans, I regret to inform you that in recent years, there has been a systematic hostility towards Islam and Muslims in Europe. The mosques, the mosques, the places of worship, and the vicious attacks against the Prophet. The West wants to define Islam in its own interest, but no matter what they do, the right and the truth of Islam will never change, the sun will never be covered with clay. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers have been able to explain enough today what it means in many Islamic countries, especially our neighbors and neighbors, to watch the chaos, such as the President of Religious Affairs. So if we can figure out why the President of Religious Affairs was founded, we'll understand why it had to be. The budget of the Ministry of Religious Affairs is not the investment budget, but the salary budget of its employees. I'd like to express my gratitude to the members of every level of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, who carry out these important tasks for our community's peace, unity, and the purpose of living together. So that on the night of July 15th, he gave our nation morale and courage with the floods and the oppressors he read. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As I put an end to my words, I ask the first President Rifat Effendi, Professor Ali Erbast, who was in the office of Riyast from Dr. Ali Erbaş, who was in charge of all levels, to those who are alive, to those who have passed on to eternal life, to those who have passed on to God's rights. I wish you all the best in our 2021 budget to our country, our nation, and our Society of Religious Affairs, and I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0101par0135	In turn, it belongs to Mr. Erol Kautuncu. Here you go, Mr. Cantaloupe.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0102par0138	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, on behalf of our group of AK PARTY members on the budget of 2021, I salute our General Assembly and our beloved nation. On March 3, 1924, the People's Ministry of Diet Affairs was replaced by the removal of Sharia and Evkaf's power of attorney in order to meet the people's demands and expectations on religious matters. As it comes down to it, the president of the Dianet Affairs, who has not neglected the 14-year-old religious experience of Muslims based on two fundamental sources of religion, Koran and circumcision, is one of the most important architects of social peace in our country today. Through its foreign diplomatic missions, it continues its services throughout the world and through the county and county mufti in the 81 provinces of Turkey with more than 130,000 qualified personnel. Dear MPs, the President of Religious Affairs, from our difficult years of national struggle to the days of the 1940s of poverty, famine, oppression; from the July 15th to the difficult Covid epidemic that we passed through, he was always on our side and continues to take it. From the coup attempt on July 15, to the floods that silenced the coups. We can never forget the resurrection and resurrections of our imams and muezinis. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Today, the existence of the President of Religious Affairs has become one of our nation's greatest possibilities. It has not been easy to come to these days; over the years of monogamy, Turkish persecution, the closure of Koran and courses, the banning of religious values, the complete isolation of religious life, the need for religion to either remain silent or legitimize all of these practices. However, in the 1930s, Diyanet, who did not give a fatwa to the Turkish tyrant, opposed the ban on the headscarf of February 28th and its compulsion. As our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, led by the firm leadership of the EC PARTI, the state is becoming normal in all aspects of the country as the country achieves the peace of the nation, so has Dianet found its own place. Dear friends, those of you who can't see our beloved nation's President of Religious Affairs any different than any general office will, of course, be disturbed by this coming situation, although those old days of Turkey are now behind us. Until the age of 15, the mindset that forbids the children of this holy nation to learn the Qur'an has been thrown into the wastebasket of history forever. Praise be to God. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Professor Dr. Ali Erbaş, chairman of the Dianet Affairs Department, islam accepts adultery as one of the greatest violations in Friday's court, prohibiting euthanism, homosexuality. The wisdom of this is that it brings disease with it and rots the generation. Some of its supporters, some of its supporters, are selling snails in the Muslim neighborhood. It's the least you can say against a wasteful explanation, it's not right, it's not right. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, the religion of Islam, the most precious property of our nation, is the most indispensable value. We can also understand that people with religious problems have a problem with religion, but those who live by the so-called democrats, who don't turn away from their language, who, whenever a bet is made on religion and the religious people, they become militants and try to put out the light of God with their mouths. The fate of those who want to take religious people out of life has not changed in thousands of years, and they have not been able to avoid being pushed out of life. And I say, "Allah will perfect His light, even if they dislike it." With these thoughts and feelings, I thank the religious officials who have been devoted to all the parts of the organization, who have been the cause of our 2021 budget, and who have not left the altars imamless, or the minors unremembered, or the minarets unremembered, and who have been dedicated to all the parts of the organization. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0103par0151	It's Mr. Hülya Nargis' turn to speak. Here you are, Mr. Nargis.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0104par0154	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the President of the State Archives as part of the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal talks. Every nation has its historical heritage. Archives are the deed to a country; the identity, law, memory of a nation, and most importantly, the memory of a state. Although modern archivistry in the Ottoman Empire began in 1846, the creation of the Treasury of Documents in the past was a sign of the importance that the archetype documents, along with gold, silver, açe, and valuable goods, were preserved among the treasures of the house, or state treasures, had been given to this subject. The archives, which are also a source of information in terms of the contents of the documents they store, are a strategic power centre for the construction of the future of states and nations. The historical wealth we have is not only for our country, but is a primary resource for the understanding of the history of the 45 countries established over the Middle East, the Balkans, the Caucasus, Europe and Africa, and the events of today's geography. These vital documents have always been tried to protect themselves in history, but they have also faced unwanted events. The sale of 96 million documents and 374,000 notebooks to the Swiss paper factory owned by the Armenian Berger family, which was operating in Bulgaria in May 1931, was halted by the government on the proposal issued by the Turkish Grand National Assembly by Manisa MP Refif Shevket. The president of the State Archives presented his unique legacy to the benefit of the entire world's public. All locals and foreigners can apply for research in the archives. 66 million documents have been transferred to electronic media, and 42 million of them have been opened to researchers in the online environment -- including the pandemic process. After the presidential government was introduced, digitalization increased, along with developing technological advances, along with the use of computers and interactive systems. To complete this transformation, the United Archive System Project, which was intended to be completed in 2023, began. The State Archive Data Centre, where documents produced by public institutions and organisations can be stored in a system and accessed in a controlled manner, are under way to provide access to the research archives from one centre. When the project is completed, the archive documents of our government can be managed from one centre. In determining our national strategy, it is very important for the implementation of our policies to prepare documents based on the strengthening of our country's historical thesis. Depriving societies of their historical roots is the new method of exploitation invented by imperial forces in the 20th century for globalization. It is our historical responsibility to keep everything from the past and to move it into the future. The State Archives Presidency is of great importance to domestic activities, as well as foreign activities, and has been carried out in 2020 as 5 of the Commission for Co-operation in Archive Areas signed with 53 countries on four different continents. As part of the protocols, millions of documents related to our country, particularly the Balkans, have been identified abroad and brought into our archives digitally. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In Ankara, which serves within the institution, the Republic Archive compound, particularly the Ottoman Archives of Istanbul, has a very important place for understanding how old and large our state tradition is. In the interest of understanding, understanding our place in history, and bearing this legacy, I respectfully salute the General Assembly, who believe that the public archives should be introduced and directed to our young people.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0105par0162	Thank you, Mr. Nargis. It's Mr. Tuba Vural's turn to speak. Here you go, Mr. Mulal.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0106par0166	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. The continuity of a nation's existence is possible with the continuation of its memory, and its memory is measured by its contribution to the concept of civilization until now. The Muslim Turk is the banner of civilization; the civilization he created is the civilization to reconcile everyone under his banner. There are three areas in the history of the world. For thousands of years, the Balkans, Caucasus and Mesopotamia have been complex because of their migration geography, and for thousands of years, anyone who wanted to flee from war to peace has sought refuge. When my ancestor, Alparslan, and the Turks came to Anatolia, and those who migrated from those geography to Anatolia for thousands of years, they found peace with the state established by Turk, and took refuge in Anatolia's compassionate furnace. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It's hard to be a shield for the underdogs. To do that, we needed houses, houses, mosques, mosques, palaces to give the transport and administration to civilization, and when the palaces turned into ashtrays, Turks who ruled the world found governments. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I am a doctor, and every doctor knows that creatures have the principle of life, called the "vital principle," that they want to live, that they want to move on. Governments are like living things, and they want to live and live. Here, we call this request the principle of continuity in the government. Our economist, who found a state in the provinces, described the principle of continuity in the state as "forever." Therefore, the only pupil of our civilization, the symbol of civilization that has been going on for two thousand and two hundred years, is here to inform you of our palaces. On all sides of Anatolia, especially Istanbul, our historical monuments, each one of which is the size of our civilization, the mark of our character, and its huge monuments to the world, are rising. The head of the National Government of Palaces is tasked with maintaining, maintenance, repair, restoration and museums in accordance with international standards of museums, and historical factories, as well as keeping the historical heritage of local and foreign visitors in service. Our cultural heritage is so big and so important that our historical and cultural heritage in the inventory of national palaces, particularly Topkapi Palace and Dolmabahçe Palace, receives millions of visitors from all parts of the world every year. In 2019, national palaces, which contributed significantly to tourism revenues in total of 2 million 685, 326 visitors, reached 1 million 103 thousand visitors, even though it was closed between 15 March and 1 June this year due to the outbreak of Covid-19. Studies to preserve our cultural heritage will continue in 2021, with a series of restorations in our historical structures, particularly Topkapi, Star and Dolmabahce Palaces. Besides, important museum activities and cultural events are planned. Turkey's most comprehensive museum of glass and crystal, which will hold a collection of rare glass pieces of about 1,500 pieces, will be opened at historical sites within the Beykoz Abraham Pasha Grove. In addition, unique collections of porcelain from the Palace of the National Palaces and the Topkapi Palace will be opened as a private museum with Ottoman palace paintings on display. The Topkapi Palace will also create galleries containing important works. Congressmans, one of the elements that makes states state is history, civilization and culture. We, the citizens of the Republic of Turkey, who are home to ancient civilizations, who live in Anatolia and are heirs of Turkish Islamic civilization, will inherit our heritage under the leadership of our President, who is sensitive to historical and cultural heritage. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] So far, from Adriatic to the Wall of China, as we sign the policies that our relatives, Turks, and those who unite their fate with the Turks, we will protect the values that make us who we are, along with the President of the great Turkish nation. (APPLAUSE) In the alliance of wise men who have made a good decision, the nation becomes united, nationalized, led by the strong leaders who rule them. I thank Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President, who has not compromised in this concept of civilization, which is different from Western paradigms and owned by the Muslim Turk, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0107par0181	This is for Mr. Zehra Taşkesenlioğlu.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0108par0183	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the President of Strategy and Budget as part of the central management budget talks of 2021. I salute you all. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The budget of 2021 is the 19th budget of the AK PARTY governments, which operate with understanding, so that the state can live. It is also the third budget of the presidential government system, which we have developed with the understanding of a government with which the nation is in charge and the state is an officer. As AK PARTY governments, we've prioritized the welfare of our people for 18 years under our reformist and human-oriented development approach. In 2002-2019, we were able to grow in real growth, an average of 5.4. See, in the 2013-2019 period alone, despite the seven-year period of internal and external badhahs, manipulative courtship games, we have literally increased our informal domestic product by 4.9 per cent year-on-year and 15.4 per cent year-on-year. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In 2002, the United Nations Human Development Index placed our country in the 85th ranking position, the highest human development class, and we upgraded it to the upper middle income group according to the World Bank's data. We've made our country's economy the world's 18th largest economy. Again, according to the World Bank's 2019 data, we raised the purchasing power to the 13th place on the basis. We've done 7.5 million additional jobs in the last ten years alone. In 2002, we raised our 193 OSB to 323. (EC PARTY) We have made our country the center of international direct foreign investors' attraction. Again, between 2011-2020 alone, we managed to attract $128 billion in direct foreign investments, and we continue to succeed. Our budget is not an interest budget, our budget is an expense budget. In 2002, we also spent 43.2 per cent of the interest payments in the budget spending, while the rulings prior to 2002 spent 43.2 per cent on interest, while during the AK PARTI administrations -- I'm only going to give the figure of 2020 -- we divided 11.3 per cent into interest spending, so instead of interest, we made it a budget for the nation. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the EC PARTY, the pioneer of change and development, have carried out the performance-based programme budget, the most advanced budgetation system used by developed countries. With the performance-based programme budget system, we will ensure that our society's needs and expectations are more clearly in the budget, we will strengthen the linear bond between public resources and public services, and we will try to strengthen financial transparency and accountability within the budget system. Mr. President, our budget proposal for 2021 will protect our achievements in the field of sustainable and inclusive public finances, based on the process of transformation and change in the economy, without compromising the financial discipline expressed in our New Economy Programme. We've done the budget of 2021 as a budget that will carry out human-oriented exports, which will include development in all the layers of society. In 2021, we increased our social expenditures by 17 percent compared to 2019 to 81.2 billion euros. We raised our budget in 2021 to offer everyone equal and quality education -- a budget system. In this scope, I will only give you a few headlines: we have earmarked $1.3 billion for housing and housing for our underprivileged students, $1 billion for the FATIH project, $500 million for free textbook support for middle school students. With the 2021 budget, we've brought in a government understanding that gives his student a $5.9 billion scholarship instead of a government understanding that receives tuition. A 4.8 billion education budget has been earmarked for our disabled children, who are our pupils, to overcome every obstacle. Again, we've given 42.4 billion to our farmers. The 2021 budget means more jobs, more overtime. In this context, we've saved $35.5 billion for our employment program. We don't build our motherland with so-called iron nets, airways, divided roads, tunnels, bridges, all over again. More production means stronger Turkey. With that understanding, we've lost the $2 billion incentive budget to increase the investment and employment of our Ministry of Industry and Technology. Our budget for 2021 will be the budget for production, exports, employment, under the leadership of the EC PARTY and our President, which has served our nation. The budget of 2021 will be the budget of our innovative RD and digital transformation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In order to create a growing and strengthening Turkey, I wish you all the best in our budget of 2021, which is made up of the righteous sweats of our officer, our tradesman, our workers, our farmers' mothers, white milk.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0109par0198	It's Mr. Mustafa Canbey's turn to speak. Here you go, Mr. Canbey.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0110par0201	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in our 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal talks on behalf of our EC PARTY Group on the budget of the President of Communications. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. I wish our budget would be a blessing. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Communication is one of the most important elements in today's world, where information and news are getting more complicated and it's multidimensional. Communication Chairman is a roofing agency established to manage the communications of our state in accordance with the spirit of the new era, along with the presidential government system. As the voice of the great and powerful Turkey, which has been monitoring the world's developments, it is responsible for the implementation of our state's entire communication, action and strategy, and is one of the most important institutions in the new system. The presidency's Communication Presidency, which is launched by its mission to strengthen its brand, has become a centre and has created a huge vision of Turkey's arguments and claims regarding the main issues on national and international levels, promoting our country and establishing public rhetorical unity and establishing public diplomacy policies to conduct public diplomacy studies. Today, we face major changes, such as developing technology, artificial intelligence, large data, and storage, processing, electronic monetary systems, and diversification of the media. Today, developed countries create the perception that they want all over the world through series, movies, social media, viral ads. The fact that we create a defense mechanism, not only the defense, but the fact that we establish proactive communication strategies when it comes to spreading our own opinion, our own perception, to the world. Today, more than ever, there is a need for institutions to express ourselves, to tell the truth about our own civilization and culture. That's one of the institutions where the President of Communications is. For the purposes of communications presidency, domestic and external public, mainly counterterrorism, cross-border military operations, Covid-19, refugees, East Mediterranean, Karabakh, and other international issues, use the tools and methods of public diplomacy to demonstrate Turkey's policies, thesis, rights, stance and success, and produce several instruments in different languages. Again, black propaganda, manipulation and deformation against our country is making an intense effort to prevent activities, inform the state authorities and the public correctly. Communication Presidency is doing really important services, especially in terms of the CIMER, which demonstrates the participating democracy, which listens to the demands of our citizens. Today, about the yellow press card, about 15 million people were given a yellow press pass. A speaker here just claimed they weren't given yellow press cards. Friends, that's not true, yellow press cards are issued. The rule of this is that the President of Communications does it according to this rule. There is freedom of speech on the yellow press card, freedom of the press. In particular, at the Republican People's Party, today, he was fired for speaking on TV recently, journalism, former MP Barış Yfriends, friends, and People's TV. At this time, Peace has been expelled from the People's People's Television. Why'd he get fired? Peace has been fired for bringing up the harassment incidents of the Turkish People's Party (HDP).
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0111par0209	He came to the KRT, to the KRT. He moved, came to the KRT.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0110par0210	Not KRT. Now you say freedom of press, you say freedom of expression, but when you're in opposition, you get people kicked out of television, so it's not obvious what happens if you're in power.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0111par0212	He's gone to KRT. To KRT.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0110par0213	Now, we're listening to you, you're always raising your voice. Don't raise your voice, raise your voice, raise your mind. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Raise your opinion, and people will appreciate you. Now, dear friends, the President of Communication has actually performed some very important tasks so far, and in the future, hopefully, in 2021, he will continue to carry them out. We, members of the EC PARTY, also see the services of the President of Communication, thank you for his service to our President, Fahrettin Altun.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0112par0216	Salman Özboycı is next in line. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0113par0219	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group regarding the budget for communications president. I salute the General Assembly. The President's government system, one of the most important breakthroughs in our republic's history, is among the newest institutions of our country, established to increase the brand value of Turkey both inside and outside. Our presidency operates a coordinated process with all of our state's institutions and institutions based on its aim to strengthen the Turkish brand. One of the first regulations of the new system established by our nation's will, the Communication Presidency has also claimed the right and reliable launch of our country on international platforms and the task of preventing black propaganda activities against Turkey inside and outside. Communication is one of the most important tools in our lives that has been growing for centuries. With developing technology, adapting to the age of communication has become indispensable to countries. In fact, our country has a long history of communication. ==History==In 1862, the Office of Matbuat was founded by its current name, Press Directorate. During the period of time, this administration entered a new structure under the roof of our Parliament on 23 April 1920. Matbuat and Intelligence Director-i Publicity were established by the law written by Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. In the most difficult years of the national struggle, it has taken responsibility to enlighten the community through internal and external publications and to take care of the work that is being done against our country. So, that's the important task that our communications president is running today. Today, as in the past, our national struggle continues in every field. As a matter of fact, our government is carrying out this struggle with all its institutions and organizations, both in the field and at the table. It's very important that every struggle that is fought is transmitted to both our nation and the world. I don't think anyone will object to the fact that Turkey's breakthroughs, rights, investments and growth are described in all areas with the right materials. As you all know, Turkey continues to defend its rights in every area from Syria to Libya, from the Eastern Mediterranean to the Caucasus. An effective work has been under our president's leadership since day one to eradicate terrorism. (EA/DG) Our presidency today is carrying out the communication processes of operations against all terrorist organizations across the border as strongly as the fight in the field. Precious lawmakers have led to antidemocratic acts of black propaganda and organization that have been initiated in many parts of the world through digital mediums. Again, those who are eager for a coup are unfortunately using these places today as a weapon. A process called the Arab Spring has turned many regions into winter with coups, counter revolutions, civil wars, and foreign interventions. We can also give examples of France, America, and many other countries. Whatever its purpose, these actions have been initiated in the process, replaced by degenerations produced in social media, giving up democracy, extinction, almost extinction. The countries who want to contribute democratically to these and such events understand much better how important communication is. That's why we're all aware of the importance and value of the communications presidency that delivers the right information to our nation without giving it a chance to provoke. He supports our presidency's every attempt at this, and we know that he will continue to uphold our nation's law. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In international circles, the President of Communication, the advocate and host of Turkey, responds quickly to the questions and problems of each citizen that constitutes the tuition of our country. Not only the problem and the question solution, but a context of communication that includes sharing ideas and ideas also constitutes the mother lode of quick and solution-oriented communication between the state and the nation. Mr. President, this institution, founded under the leadership of Gazi Mustafa Kemal and plays a very important role in the national struggle, will now be reactivated by the vision of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and continue to contribute to Turkey's progress in 2023, 2053 and 2071. I'd like to thank the president of Fahrettin Altun here, who has been working so hard to move this precious infrastructure to the next generation. Finally, I give thanks to the great nation that has given our AK PARTY, who has never lost touch with its nation, the 19th time in a budget. They will not be cut off from their country by the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and they will continue their journey with confidence by strengthening their communication even further. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0114par0231	The last word belongs to Selman Oğuzhan Eser Bey. Here you go, Mr. Artser.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0115par0234	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group on the defence industry budget. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. Before we begin with my remarks, I strongly condemn the US decision to sanction, and I want it known that we support our Defence Industry President and his colleagues to the end. For centuries, this nation has lived free, not in economic, political, or military captivity, but rather in captivity, we will die free, we will die free, we will die free. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Precious lawmakers, the Defence Industry Presidency, have an important role in maintaining the essential elements that constitute and sustain the state, with its logistical support for our Turkish Armed Forces, among the world's most powerful troops, in the fight to preserve national values. There's no way to talk about the work of the Defense Industry presidency and its proud developments in this area in a short time. When I hear about the work in this area, I would like to make a brief statement of some of the developments that may be uncomfortable, but that the sons of your country will be pleased with. OUR millions are one of the 10 countries in the world that design and maintain their own ship. We are among the number-one countries of the world in this technology, with our new type submersibles, national combat aircraft, training planes, HURKET, drones and SIHA. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Raid drones, drones, droneS, drones, spin-winged micro drones and autonomous, autonomous drones, independent of GPS. Our nation calls all of these things "Ebabil" for short. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) SKY and ATAK helicopters, ALTAY main combat tanks, hedgehogs, EJDER, YALCIN, Strikers, Pars, Kıraç, various armored vehicles in the configuration; drones, BANA, many of them preparing for the day when they will meet their enemies. With our native engines, air defense systems, ammunition, missiles and rockets, we are now local and national. We're moving the technology of the future into the present with our laser weapons systems and electromagnetic launch systems that continue to run development. For military intelligence purposes in any region around the world, it will allow high-resolution images to be obtained, and at the same time, its satellites are flowing in orbit to meet the need for images in many civilian areas. The upgraded Hybrid Space Rocket Engine, and the first domestic probe, went up to 80 miles [30 km] of altitude, crossed the 100km line of space, and became our first spacecraft to go into space. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] That's just part of what we can talk about. If any of you have a moon star in your pocket and can't be happy with all these proud developments, let them not only grieve, but be afraid. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, after which all of our rations and engines will be built in our homeland and our military air industry will be built on this basis. In view of the importance taken by the Air Force, it is necessary to plan this shift and keep it alive in the eyes of the nation, as it is worthy of it. That's exactly what the Defence Industry President did; we produced all of this together as Turkey. In our city, Kırıkkale, Burıkkale, Bigaeli, Yozgat, Ankara, İstanbul, Sivas, Gaziantep, more than 1,500 industrialists produced it with sweat. We believe there will soon be a large supply chain in the field of defense industry covering all our cities. In 2002, we did not have a single firm among the world's largest defense companies, but today we are among the world's giants with seven companies. We are now on seven continents, starting with $248 million in 2002 and exporting over $3 billion in defense today. After countries such as the United States, China, India, Russia, France, Germany, Britain, Japan, South Korea, Italy and Israel, Turkey is number 16 in defence industry spending. Even so, we have only one word for those who lean on terrorist organizations and talk about disarming and peace, and if it's about the country, then the rest is about the community. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Either we'll all be a nation together or you'll stay a part of it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, our national defence story has no history apart from our nation. Therefore, the history of our defence is a deep concern of the nation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The national defence force we need today from the years of the invasion is rising with the advanced possibilities of our age.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0116par0249	Thank you, Congressman.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0115par0250	I'm completing it, Mr. President. Today's display of pride shows us what can be accomplished together, but also gives us the feeling of sharing in a great future. The architect of these achievements gives my gratitude and respect to our nation and our leader, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and I wish that the budget of 2021 and the public budgets discussed would be a blessing.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0117par0254	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0118par0257	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers have reached a critical point in the military province pandemic, where I've been receiving calls from colleagues and patients for days. According to information I have just received, 36 patients are currently waiting for an ICU bed in 112, intubated in the emergency rooms. I've warned you many times, there's a new governorship building in the district of the Army, and there's a dental school that's been evacuated, so let's quickly turn this place into a hospital. We haven't heard back yet. I'm asking you on behalf of my people, as an MP under this great roof, and as a physician, on behalf of my patients, please send an ICU device and personnel immediately, and we'll establish intensive care there. Our patients are dying. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0117par0259	Mr. Ozkoch, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0119par0261	Sir, thank you. Before our Vice President's speech, after the AKP Group's talks are over, I have made a commitment to clarify one question, at least in his speech, with an understanding of the answer. Mr. Vice President, our Defence Industry President has made it clear in 18 months that BMC will produce and deliver the first tank at the Tank Palet Factory. Has this tank been produced or delivered? If it wasn't delivered, why did we give this Tank Palet Factory -- $250 million for you, $20 billion for us -- for 25 years free to the Ethhem Sandzak and Qatar army in BMC?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0120par0264	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0119par0265	There is, there is, friends. Second: As both the President and the Defence Industry President said, the FIRTINA obsess is not produced there. Our army, our army, who designed the FriTINA obuses, our army, our army, our factory, our workers, ours, ours, ours, ours, ours, they can't build tanks. Why are Qatar armies and Ethem Sandzak profiting on a ball made by the Turkish army, plus 25.5% of the cost costs on the Frithina obuses? I'd like him to explain. [[Applause from CHP rows]] 1) presidential Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Central Management Final Account for the presidency 2019 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2021 Central Management Budget 2) National Intelligence Agency Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2021 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board Secretary General 2019 Central Management Terms C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget of 2021 2) The Central Management Final Account for the President of Religious Affairs 2019 1) President of State Archives 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Archives Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget of 2021 2) Central Management Final Account for the Executive Board of National Palaces 2019 1) Strategy and Budget President 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Communication Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account THE PRESIDENT OF THE SURVIVATION [[Continue]] 1) Defence Industry Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Defence Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2019
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0121par0302	Congressmans, on behalf of the PARTI Group now, Mr. Yavuz Zekalalioğlu. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0122par0305	Mr. President, I'm going to talk to the esteemed lawmakers about the State Archives. This archive, archive, archive, I'm going to share with you our responsibilities that correspond to our memory, here are my negotiations on the budget through a perspective that Mr. President has told them about the government, which has added to their mission and vision. Our friends who were on the stand before us have made good statements about what the collective memory, the experience, the force that this experience represents for our futures means. I'd like to do a budget review, both in the framework of our friends speaking on behalf of the AK PARTI Group and our friends who are critical of the issue. So during our long history -- we have in the mission and vision department -- sir, based on the archives of the State Archives -- a rich country where the history of 40 countries can be written -- this is the first hand-to-hand force that comes into our memory: what it does, what it doesn't do, what it destroys, what it does, what it destroys, what it destroys, what it does. Now, a lot of things can be said from here, but in the interest of putting it into the day, tying it to the budget, reminding you of the budget responsibility, I mean, I would like to review the budget on what the AK PARTI will bring to you during its time of power, if our archivistial framework, the year, the time, the government system has promised to the nation in three years. We don't have any objection to the intentions of this text, which the government has offered us, while we're trying -- you'll certainly notice -- to announce our criticism of the budget to power. Our Minister of Orhan -- our former Deputy Minister of National Education, now our Conium Mebus -- has turned the words from the Mesnevia to the form of cards. In order to satisfy the need for daily wisdom, I choose to draw one out of each of the words of that card - shaped Fulcrum, and read it; it is a precious thing. This is also a wise text, this text. When you read this 2021 budget, it's, like, a book like a Fulcrum. (APPLAUSE) So I draw cards without looking at them; on every page I open, there's wisdom; there's wisdom; there's wisdom; there's wisdom; there's efficiency, nationality, domesticity, capacity use; there's increased use, employment, vision, mission, determination, will, morality, community property, respect, vision of the future; there's everything you can think of, there's everything you can think of. When you go beyond the criteria of this economic program, this text, these texts, the vision of 2021, or the Eleventh Development Plan, the program is very beautiful as a statement of intent. There's nothing wrong with intentions because he's trying to establish the political framework of our friends who speak for power, but whatever happened to us, it's because we couldn't do what we said. So the job of power is not to sing well, it's to do well. When the presidency reviews the government's system of government, we judge, in fact, a will rather than a system. What are we judging? As many jobs as we have in front of you today, to remind you of what we are trying to preach, to make you realize what they need, what they want, what they need, what they want, what you can't keep. So if you go into archivistry, you'll see what we've done in our glorious times. If you enter your own political archives, you will see that the long periods of power of the AK PARTY are not what happens when it's done right, but what happens when it's done wrong. So you actually know what happens when you do what you do in the country, what happens when you do what's bad, what happens when you do what happens in the first place. So you named your party the Justice and Development Party. You actually coded your responsibility to put the Justice and Development Party in history, archive, nation, nationality, religion, faith, sanctity, the future, and you said: "We come with a will to make justice the host of development. What are we promising? We're promising a country without unemployed people. We promise to save this country from a disgrace determined by the hunger limit of minimum wage. Of all the minimum wage, look at the criteria we've set to give them the right money, friends, the hunger limit. It's shameless, my friends, to mention the limit of hunger in an Islamic home, in order to give someone their due in the Turkish dorm. You promised us a way out of this shame.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0123par0310	Let's talk about this.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0122par0311	We remind you of the times when we stood up in justice, when we stood up in justice, what we were most proud of was that we were honoring our courts, we were honoring our employment. In this country, we're offering an institution where the sense of rights and trust in the government is never in the savings of government. You've actually said that. The economic value of the perspective you've set is that you haven't been able to achieve any goals. Sir, you've got 2023 vision, you know, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got 2023 vision, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've got, you've Now in the final of twenty years -- I can tell you a lot of things -- you say in the 20 years of power, we're going to reform the economy with justice and development perspective, we're going to do institutional actions in democracy again. It's a revelation that you haven't been able to keep your promise to the nation in 18 years. Now I'm looking at your motivation. The power was respected by its past actions, by its commitments to the nation, and now you're happy that the opposition can't take power over all your mistakes, just because you're motivated there. Instead of finding yourself a reputation for keeping promises to your nation, sir, you are motivated by attempting to nominate Kemal Kilicdaroglu, who you think is an easy candidate for you in the presidential process. What's the motivation? What's the motivation? Look, this is motivation: you think this is it.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0124par0314	It's a shame.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0122par0316	Ma'am, we don't talk to the country, you think. We don't say, "Shall Recep Tayyip Erdogan direct the country, or Kemal Kilicdaroglu direct it, or will Coral Akşener direct it?" Hear our voices. We say that the country should rule in morality. Let the sense of knowing the rights and the law of the orphan rule the land, and let righteousness rule it. Let him lead the country to common sense. Have him run the town for consultation. So what we're really trying to announce is that we're not in this country, we're in this country, we're in this country, we're not in a fight, we're in love, we're in love. What would run this country? What kind of country do we dream of, what do we imagine? You may be persistently trying to turn the issue into a competition through individuals, a political advantage. We know that if you decide on the land, He will pray for you and will ask for a vote. If you fulfil your covenant with your people, We know that he will withdraw to your homes and pray to you in a secure land. They have built us a land that has kept its promises, and has brought it to justice, and has risen, and is prosperous. We do not need politics anymore. It is much easier for us than what we have done today. If you connect your homeland, your children's hope to this land, if you meet your political responsibility for finding jobs for everyone, such as whether we have to find jobs for all of your children who have graduated from universities, if you represent the will of the farmer's face, if you honor your small income, if you represent the will to help the tradesman's narrow days, we will abandon politics. Thank God, we're in a country that no longer needs to do politics. In order for everyone to live in peace, to do what they do best in the future of the country, not to the new political occupations, but to be rushed to new serious jobs, new serious responsibilities, there is no need to do politics anymore. You didn't have to make them say: Now we're walking the streets. If we don't tell you about the people's voices in the streets, we'll be betraying our promise to the nation. We used to hear things like this in the nation, in 2002, in 2003, in 2005: "All praise be to God, there is plenty, there is plenty. Praise be to God, there is more service and comfort in the land than ever before. Now we're walking the streets -- you're actually traveling -- everyone we've been seeing tells us: "We can't get by, we can't get enough, we can't raise, we can't look at our children. We suffer from our children's unemployment, we are ashamed; we are afraid to leave them like this and die. Please don't think we're telling you what's being announced as a claim to rights, with a political party's coercion. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do I have a few minutes, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0125par0320	No.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0122par0321	Is it over?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0125par0322	It's over, yeah. Thank you. It's Mr. Behic Steel's turn.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0126par0326	Mr. President, I have been promised to address the budget of the National Intelligence Agency. On behalf of my personal and well-being party, I salute the General Assembly. The MIT is an important organization that constitutes the backbone of our state structure. Even though it's not perfect at its level, I still think it deserves appreciation. Intelligence and politics must be done in every aspect of our lives; this is an inevitable necessity of success, hoping for victory without knowledge. Dear friends, national defense, foreign, court, property, military, police, and intelligence are always the linking rings in the organization of state. Intel should be in foreign policy, defence, national security, and even in the economy. There's intelligence, but how does it organize and function, how does the mission work? On the other hand, how does cooperation with other intelligence agencies operate or counterintelligence activities? Yes, these questions, I suppose, predict the clues to our horizons. I wonder what intelligence is for. What's the goal, the goal, the purpose? Let's not forget that a state has a sacred, lofty goal. Any means leading to the target must be carefully chosen, or it must be provided. Any obstacle that may occur must be overcome by patience and endurance, and every trap of the enemy must be identified and destroyed. This leads us to national politics. The essence of politics has already been recorded in the political document. However, the cold and ruthless view of the Turkish state has led to great weaknesses by the ruling governments who brutally attacked all their organs. As a result of these weaknesses, it has caused destruction, which cannot be prevented. Especially after 2007, the destruction of the more reckless government has caused in our national structure is far too great. The basic institutions of the state were once corrupted or abolished. The MIT has its share. Agents who have infiltrated the MIT have managed to maintain their presence until July 15th. Dear friends, it is known that there is a Turkish intelligence and information gathering activity from Seljuk to Osmanlı. The first appearance of all intelligence and information gathering activities in modern terms is perhaps 150 years old. The process from the agency's Mahsusa to today's MIT (MIT) -- I don't want to talk about it -- has been made President of MIT under the latest presidential decree. Dear lawmakers, we can count military intelligence units, police intelligence, gendarmes, MASAK, as well as the MIT, who conducts general intelligence activity. In addition to all these intelligence agencies, the General Directorate of Security Affairs has been established based on the presidential government system. Why am I telling you this? Because in an endless job, the desire to capture intelligence became the main target of AKP (AKP) because intelligence agencies were unable to be satisfied without being captured. Then the action was applied, including inserting, corrupting, dispersing, dispersing, and then returning to the public, it was said that these were bad; eventually the principle of closure and re-establishment was applied. Dear friends, this is not only used in intelligence, but in all state institutions. The MIT has been exposed to a leak. In 2013, they almost took the Undersecretary of the MIT and intended to arrest the so-called trial. If it's the Cosmic Room story, it's a complete disgrace, and there's no way to repeat it. We and future generations will never forget how those who have committed an act of hostility to the Turkish army have attacked their bones. Honourable MPs, Sun Tzu, famous Chinese philosopher, say victory is inevitable if you know yourself and know your enemy in his work, "The Art of Harp," which was written two thousand and five hundred years ago. That promise is so important to the Turkish Armed Forces today. What's the AK PARTY doing? He's legislating intelligence from the army, confusing the MIT with military involvement, shutting down military facilities, schools and so on, disrupting command, destroying the Gendarme and the TSK's loyalty by being too extreme. Well, now, imagine that this army lost even August 30th, August 30th. I can think of a lot more, but I think it was intended. Therefore, weaker military intelligence means weaker army. No doubt the contribution of a narrowed-down army to national security will be narrow. Yes, from the other victims of our army, the issues of EMASIA, AGE, MGK, are different issues; I also refer to them as memories. Clearly, our national law requires a political will to anchor the founding philosophy of the Republic of Turkey to protect and defend our interests with high sensitivity. As a matter of fact, the intervention of the Roseline ship on November 22nd should be considered a violation of our sovereignty. Our intelligence is required to ask where the Turkish Armed Forces are here. Dear friends, if we return to the MIT, our National Intelligence Agency, strong Turkish Armed Forces, strong police and gendarmes, can only approach its goal with strong policymakers. Dear friends, there is no doubt that the existence of a state is possible, as well as the presence and continuity of many elements. It has not been seen that governments who cannot build strong economic structures can maintain independence and sovereignty. It is very difficult to lift the Turkish economy, where there is a total looting, robbery and extortion. As a matter of fact, the numbers shared by Mr. Tatekoğlu and Mr. Erhan Ustah have expressed these painful facts to us. With pink paintings, with dreams, the government ship can't be floated. To me, the promise of a new economy and legal reform is similar to the faith of Pharaoh; in the last place, the attempt to reform after 18 years can only make one laugh painfully. Dear friends, people are hungry, I repeat, the masses are hungry. Let's at least remove the waste in public immediately, as Mr. Akshener put it, and give the 3,000 TL to the minimum wage. With this budget proposal, how can we talk about economic practices that disrupt society, security, beka, national morality, rights and law, justice? In the society that such an economy points to, the work of intelligence is undoubtedly becoming more difficult. Precious lawmakers, we're going through a period in which globalization has lost blood in the world and Turkey, where pandemic cases have been intense, where weapons of mass destruction have been spread, energy supply security has been threatened, environmental problems and ecological crises, there's an increase in organised crime, there's a high-intensity trend, cyber security, technological security and financial security are threatened. It is certain that in order to get Turkey out of this turmoil, we need the dedicated work of the MIT. It is imperative that we be united in this sense. Dear lawmakers, as the Central Bank example sees, the institutionalisation of institutions producing technical services, as long as necrotics is infected, institutionalism is in decline, it's turning into a state crisis. MIT has experienced this promise. Our hope is that the lessons that have been learned will be earmarked, that they will not be wronged again, and the M.S.I. does its duty. I wish God's mercy to all of our martyrs, and to all of our immortals, and to all of our veterans, and to all of our forces, my greetings and greetings. I wish you all the best in the MIT budget.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0127par0341	The order belongs to Mr. Dursun Atash. Here you are, Mr. Paperman.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0128par0344	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI Group regarding the budget for 2021 of the National Security Council's Secretary-General's Office, and I salute the High Assembly. The budget of the National Security Council's 2021 budget rose from 3 million to 38.1 million Turkish liras compared to the previous year. In terms of our state's existence and independence, our country's indivisible integrity, the peace and security of our nation, we have declared that we will vote yes and vote yes. At the beginning of my words, I would like to say that we will vote no for the budget of the Secretary General of the National Security Council, which has completely lost its functionality and its influence, turned into a political institution. From 1938 to 2004, the Office of Secretary General of the National Security Board, represented by senior military personnel, has been represented by civil bureaucrats since 2004. Just as the structure of the High Military Division is being tampered with by the structure of the National Security Council, it has been politicalized. 13 of the 15 members of the High Military Court before 2016 were made up of soldiers, while at the moment, only 4 members of the government were left against 7 other members except the President. Can you imagine, the Ministers of Justice, Internal Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Treasury, National Education, making decisions about the rise or retirement of generals and admirals? I ask you: When asked whether to appoint a teacher or not, our president knows. What are they doing there, the Minister of National Education, the Minister of Treasury and the Minister of Justice? How absurd is it that the Commander of the Army is a member of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors? The AKP has unfortunately emptied our military institutions and all of our state institutions since its arrival in power. The bodies, such as MGK, AGE, are translated into the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers of the late Solomon Demirel is a political institution, but the National Security Council is a state. The AKP has come to power with military custody statements, and in the end, the military institutions have established political custody over every institution, especially the military institutions. To ensure that our institutions do not become more worn-out and corrupt, political pressures must be abandoned immediately, acting according to the 5,000-year-old tradition of the Turkish state. Dear lawmakers may have made one of the most important findings since the establishment of the National Security Council in 2004. In 2004, the council made a decision to draft an action plan against the activities of the council and announced this decision to the current government. (Applause) The government didn't take that into account, but acted the opposite way, and went arm in arm, and wet in the same rain, and walked the road together. In this process, the government's national institutions have seen the biggest damage in which the rebel attempt on July 15th resulted in a traitorous coup. Given the current structure of the MGK, do you think there is any structure left to decide with the mind of the state, as in 2004? Dear lawmakers, I'd like to mention a little bit about the central management budget. Central management budgets show from whom revenues will be collected, and how much revenues will be collected within the year; how these revenues will be spent, so there are two sides in the budget, which is clear to whom the revenues will be collected from, and who will be transferred to. From the oppressed citizen, officer, pensioner, worker, all the country's resources will be transferred to domestic and foreign capital, side by side, comrade, relative in the interest of the AKP. In the 2021 budget, the citizen's money goes to the interest lobby, where the President declares enemies in each speech. The interest costs increased by more than 30 per cent from the previous year to about 180 billion euros. One fifth of tax revenues will go to interest, so each Turkish citizen will pay interest for $2.168 Turkish lira. However, investments in this budget constitute only 1.8 per cent of the total budget, while interest is 13.3 per cent. The power that determines the citizen's hunger limit has not set the limit for the allies and five contractors to be satisfied in this budget. The budget, prepared by the court, is far from the expectations of the citizens. The problems of society that are waiting to be solved are not included in this budget. In this budget put in front of the citizen as a painful prescription, we don't have the heroes of the pandemic process, we don't have the health workers waiting for the 600 thousand, we don't have the unaccounted teachers who don't even know their numbers; we don't have the tractor, the product, the animal who can't support the state; Al, the pleasure tea drink. Dear MPs, in this budget, there is no solution to the problems of the heroic staff of the glorious Turkish army, there is no compensation for the authorities you promised our majors, there is no solution to the problems of our contracted officers and petty officers, there is no solution to the problems of the Turkish Armed Forces, there is no solution to the degree and service compensations that have been promised repeatedly to the petty officers in the most critical areas of the army, including the staff and the 3600 additional indicators that we have not paid for. (APPLAUSE) There is no solution to the problems of sergeants who were forced into civil service and forced to retire to civil service; there is no solution to the problems of our guards, who have given 1,800 martyrs, 3,000 veterans for the undistributable integrity of the country; there is no solution to the problems of our military personnel, who have been exposed by decrees, who have been found innocent and acquitted by the courts; there has been another issue waiting to be solved; there has been another issue, which has been held for four years. There's no solution to the problems of term petty officers again, so there's nothing in the budget for our military, just like there's a citizen. As a result, good lawmakers will receive 16.4 per cent more taxes from citizens who have already suffered a great deal in this budget than last year. With this budget, the citizen's money will go into the pockets of interest lobbys, subcontractors, court clowns. With this budget, unemployment will continue to break records, inflation will increase, economic insecurity will increase, so with this budget, people's money will go to the side, not to the citizens in 2021, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0129par0357	Congressmans, there is a common statement, I read: About U.S.A.'s Actions Against Our Country We reject the US government's decision to sanction Turkey on December 14, 2020. Turkey does not hesitate to take any steps required by its national security. In this regard, it is not a country to take a step back in the face of threats and sanctions. We answer only to our beloved nation as we step forward in the interests of our national interests, with the understanding that the kingdom belongs to the nation unconditionally. The wrong step taken by the United States is incompatible with the spirit of alliance. Clearly, mutual respect does not benefit from our relationships that need to be moved forward. Turkey is a country that does its part to contribute to peace and stability in its foreign policy. He is among NATO's respected and indispensable allies. The narrow-minded and hostile agendas of interest groups should not be allowed to hold Turkey-US relations hostage. A view that excludes Turkey is not possible to contribute to world peace. This attitude violates NATO's spirit of alliance. For these reasons, we invite the United States to return immediately from this grave error. AK PARTY Group CHP Group Erkan Akçay Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu MHP Group Good PARTY Group [[AK PARTY, CHP, MHP and GOOD PARTY welcome]] 1) presidential Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Central Management Final Account for the presidency 2019 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2021 Central Management Budget 2) National Intelligence Agency Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2021 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board Secretary General 2019 Central Management Terms C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget of 2021 2) The Central Management Final Account for the President of Religious Affairs 2019 1) President of State Archives 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Archives Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget of 2021 2) Central Management Final Account for the Executive Board of National Palaces 2019 1) Strategy and Budget President 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Communication Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account THE PRESIDENT OF THE SURVIVATION [[Continue]] 1) Defence Industry Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Defence Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 It's Mr. Umit Dikbayir's turn to speak. Here you go, Mr. Dikbayyr.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0130par0411	Dear MPs, at the beginning of my speech, I'd like to address the decision of sanction from the United States of America. I'm a politician who's been fighting the politics, practices, and wrongs of the Justice and Development Party for years, but these are our internal issues. Our political ethics and principles, our nationalist stance, we don't put the institutions of the Republic of Turkey on anybody's operating table, and we don't beat up their executives on the son of the hand, we don't allow anyone to discipline our state. I would also like to point out that the United States of America condemns its decision to sanction, that we stand firm in the presence of our government, the target of the decision. Also, I want you to know that we've seen similar sanctions before, and we've come out of these processes getting stronger. This is the result of such sanctions at the Tank Palet Factory in Sakarya, my hometown. The land was donated by a Sakaryan philanthropist citizen after the sanctions of the 1974 Cyprus evacuation, and the two facilities in which were made by the Sakaryan people were donated. The foundations of the independent, domestic and national defence industry were laid in those days. Unfortunately, this very valuable factory, which was donated to the Turkish Armed Forces at your time, has been pursued by Qatars, based on $50 million in investments and based on its cover. When we say, you object and you get angry. And once again, if he can invest $50 million in a very valuable factory like the Tank Palet Factory, and I'm going to argue that any member of parliament here, even the President of Defense Industries, has a contract that even doesn't know about it, it's called attracting rice. Here's Mr. Ismail. If he has a contract, let him open it and show it to us here. What did you say? We need to invest $50 million. We said, "We'll find this money." You said, "The state has charitable businessmen, it has a prosperous nation, we have a nation that will bring its bracelet to its army, despite all your waste and incompetence." You said, "No." For example, we need 40 tanks immediately. You said, "Are 40 tanks going to be built in this factory in 25 years?" We asked you, and you didn't answer. In our factory, the men will build tanks with our machines, with our technology, with our engineers and employees, 12.5% of the profits, and sell them to us again. We said, "We didn't privatize, we did business." Now, I ask you again: that we, my dear, who built this factory, who built it, will run the Qatar that we, who wrote the heroic epic in Afrin, used 280 FIRTINA obses and the POYRAZ vehicles that were carrying ammunition to these obuses, but we haven't been able to run the government yesterday, who can't make a gun for himself, will we? Shame on you! The factory you handed over twenty-four months ago would have delivered the first batch of tanks 18 months later, so the delivery would have started six months ago. Now, once again, where are the tanks? Where are the tanks, man? If you can't deliver, you don't know what penalty you're going to pay. Do any of us know? No. Because the palace said to you, raise your hand. You raised it. And the plague? Now, you will pay for it, and in the Hereafter it will be your problem. Our goal is to put those Qatars and their partners behind their backs as soon as they're in power, put them outside the door and hand over the Tank Palet Factory to the Turkish Armed Forces where it belongs. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] Look, Qatar may be Mr. Erdogan's friend, but he is not a friend of the state of the Republic of Turkey. We are not one of those who search for color in capital, but we have not forgotten the fact and cannot ignore: Today, the country that does drilling together with the southern Greek Cypriot part in the Eastern Mediterranean region is Qatar. The country established its first diplomatic relationship with the Greek part through the Gulf States Co-operation Council. Our trade is another business, and it's another business to share in a national strategic institution. Dear MPs, this is the joy that comes at the top of the most serious back issues for Turkey. This system and its results are as serious as the weakness that can be found in the power and resources of a national defense that binds all decisions between one person's two lips. The mentality that turned the nation's treasure into a family company through the Fund of Wealth is a serious defense and beka problem for our country. Economic power, independence is now the most important force. If you're selling the country's most important strategic factories and banks to countries we're fighting today in the Mediterranean, you've brought the land's deed to market. Our duty and our responsibility -- our nation's command to us -- is to shout the truth in front of you. We're going to shout the truth in your face so we can protect the people's rights. We're not going to shut up just because he doesn't want power. We can't accept power because it thinks it's his father's farm. We are worshippers of serving your government and your nation, of the interests of the state and of the nation. From the Turkish nation, from the Turkish nation's state, from the control of the institutions of that state, we follow every job, every sequence, every countertop with all our care and responsibility. We're going to tell our saint nation what you did, what you didn't do, what you were pretending to do, and we're going to keep telling them. And when the time comes, by God's leave, we will question him one by one. Dear lawmakers, if only one member of our nation goes to bed hungry, we've got a big beka problem there. If one member of our nation has given up on its country and tomorrow, looking for a future in other countries, we have a serious problem. Our belief is that one young person is sometimes everything. Because we believe that a single nail is important in a beaten fire. Because a nail saves a shoe, a horseshoe, a horse, a soldier, a soldier saves an army, an army saves a nation. That soldier is Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who helped all of us sit in these seats because of his republic. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] I'm talking to people who are trying to tell us statistics and try to convince us through numbers that if they're deprived of education because they don't have a TV, because they don't have a tablet, because they don't have a TV, because they don't have an Internet, then that nail is the head of everything. If that shoe gets nailed down, it's all screwed up. Let alone a single nail, over 2 million of our children today have been deprived of remote education, which means there's a terrible unfair competition in education. So if that nail comes out, there's no value in spending billions of dollars on military technology, weapons. It means the country's screwed up, you're messing with the basic stone of the republic. Our national defense budget is valuable. So let's talk about our national defense budget, increase it, strengthen it. Yes, as we discuss our national defense budget, let us not forget the fact that when we discuss our prophet's furnace, let us discuss our army of education and its interests. When our Mehmet-chik is raking the ground in private squares, our training army has to chase down a dime at the market stalls, it's a big deal. If the army of education is condemned to despair while the mountain stone of our Mehmet is forced against the enemy, against the traitor, then the victories are without crowns. In the 2021 budget, a budget worth $22 billion to the contractors is a bad budget. It's a bad budget with an understanding that the health army and the health army that are kicking its ass these days is not giving 3600 additional indicators to our police, but it's putting billions in the pocket of the company that resets the VAT, which runs the national lottery. While our training army is seeking additional work to bring the end of the month, it's a dirty budget with an unconscionable tax advantage of $9.5 billion for a fellow businessman, when he wants every penny from our shop closed. It is a saying that I love most: "He who loves his people is the one who does his job best. " To love the land begins with loving the nation. Loving your people doesn't mean making speeches over his army to exploit his feelings. AS A GOOD PARTY, let's give the martyr families an apartment from TOKI. When we brought an offer to this assembly, you didn't even blush when you voted. Loving people, it's like a single nail, trying to secure the present and tomorrow of each individual. In particular, I address power and its partner: these words are the truth. When you're alone with your conscience, I know you'll say, "He's right." Don't shut up when you're right. Make a sound to this strange budget of a system that mortgages the future of our country, mortgages the future of our children. Do what you haven't done in 19 years, this time people first, our state first." Say. At least this time, when you're alone with yourself, listen to your inner voice and listen to your conscience. I salute your consciences, and I salute the General Assembly, that it may be a good year for our nation, and that it may be a good year for the state of 2021.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0131par0429	The order is for Mr. Metin Ergun. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0132par0432	I would like to present our views on the budget of the President of the National Courts. I hereby salute your high council. Members of parliament, there are many valuable historical monuments all over Turkey, such as our national palaces. I'd rather build my speech on the restoration of these artifacts, literally restoration scandals. In different parts of our country, many historical structures and works of art that reflect the art and aesthetics of our nation and civilization, need to be protected and healed. As for the preservation of the historical heritage, it is not possible to say that the current power has so far demonstrated a successful performance; on the contrary, the power has failed in this regard. The government sees the preservation and restoration of these works of art, such as jewels, as a means of making money for the runt and the side. Protecting historical artifacts, above all, requires a fine taste in art, historical and cultural buildup. Protecting historical artifacts is also to preserve the taste of art and artistry in those works. For the current government, restoration of historical artifacts means making money for the side. Therefore, the contractor's logic is to make restoration tenders for these artifacts. And that, as we're about to give examples, is the cause of the murders of history, culture and art history in Anatolia, because almost none of the companies that have received the restoration tenders have an art historian or restorer in them. In addition, it is not only an art historian, but it is the work of a historical monument that requires a committee that specializes in the field, or should be provided with counseling from a delegation. Members of parliament, the 9th Article of the Venice Charter, the most important text on the preservation and restoration of historical structures, states that restortion is a profession. Its goal is to preserve and reveal the aesthetic and historical value of the monument. Restoration is fundamentally dependent on original materials and reliable documents. Restoration must stop where the hypothetical began. Despite warnings from the Venice Charter, power continues to view our historical and cultural heritage as numbers and rants. It is seen that many historical and artistic structures, which cannot be valued under the name "restoration" of power, have been destroyed. Many of the actions presented by the government for historical structures and artifacts are marked by the loss of identity to historical structures, the destruction of their style, the deformation, as extremely unsuccessful construction work. Because the important thing for power is not to restore and protect the historical structure in its original way, but to immediately project these restorations and to tender them to non-compulsive companies. As long as that understanding continues like this, like so many structures that have been angered by the restoration sheaths of power so far, it is unfortunate that we will lose many historical and artistic artifacts after that. Reverend MPs, if I may present to you a few examples of these restoration murders, such as Süheyl Bey Camii in Istanbul. This mosque was built by Mr. Suheyl in 1591 by architect Sinan. In fact, it had an octagon-planned and dome-like appearance, and after its so-called restoration, its octagon structure was covered with glass, and its octagonal structure was broken. In this case, unfortunately, the mosque has been compared to a third-rate shopping mall, and this important cultural heritage has been transformed into a freak. One of the most tragic aspects of the job is that at that time, the ruling members of the government saw it as -- in the nail -- as a charity project. As a matter of fact, it's restored. Again, in Eskişehir, Seyyed Battal Veterans had a similar fate. In Eskişehir, Seljuk Sultan I. The Seyyed Battal Veterans, built in 1207 by Ummuhan Hatun, the mother of Alatin Keykabat. Similarly, this Ashli was subjected to a so-called restoration and abetting initiative. During the restoration, concrete columns were replaced by American kitchens, normally marbles. In addition, modern toilets are included in Ashliya. This is how a historical massacre was done: this is the original, this is restored. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Another massacre also took place in Istanbul in the Atik Valide Covenant. About four hundred and fifty years old, known as the last work of the architect Sinan. In the interior of the healing grounds, the reforms are completely covered with glass, automatic doors to the inner garden, converted to the cafeteria and destroyed historical tissue. Another scandal is related to Sivasta Bath with Lead and Behram Pasha Inn. ==History==In 1576, the Ottoman Classical Bath with Lead and Behram Pasha Inn were built by former Governor of Sivas Behram Pasha. Two years ago, the restoration of these two historical structures was completed. There's a freaky structure, a cumbersome store, that's going to come right between these two structures next to each other. We don't know the taste of this freak's kinefees, but it also seems to be a sign of history's distaste and dissatisfaction. These and similar examples can be found in every corner of Asia Minor. There are similar tasteless examples, stories of art history and cultural massacres coming from all over the place. These examples have nothing to do with our consciousness of history and civilization, nor with the sense of universal art and aesthetics. Honourable lawmakers must approach historical structures and works of art that need to be protected with a certain jeweler's sensitivity. Thus, the protection and restoration policy of power so far is wrong. This area should not become an area that the government uses to tender subsidiaries. Because conservation and restoration work is a job of expertise and experience, and far from art, aesthetics and architecture, non-profit companies whose eyes are filled with greed for profit cannot actually restore historical structures in the right way. So our sincere advice as the GOOD PARTY is that instead of doing the art and history massacre under the name Restoration, it would be better if you didn't touch them at all. Because once these structures and works of art are tampered with, there's no turning back. As I stop speaking with these feelings and thoughts, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0133par0449	Members of the Parliamentary Assembly of Asia, Bahrain, who visited our country at the invitation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as well as representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Indonesia, Iraq, Iran, the Russian Federation and the Secretary General of Asia Parliament, welcome to them on behalf of our Parliament. [[Applause]] 1) presidential Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Central Management Final Account for the presidency 2019 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2021 Central Management Budget 2) National Intelligence Agency Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2021 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board Secretary General 2019 Central Management Terms C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget of 2021 2) The Central Management Final Account for the President of Religious Affairs 2019 1) President of State Archives 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Archives Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget of 2021 2) Central Management Final Account for the Executive Board of National Palaces 2019 1) Strategy and Budget President 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Communication Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account THE PRESIDENT OF THE SURVIVATION [[Continue]] 1) Defence Industry Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Defence Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 It's Mr. Hope's turn to speak. Here you go, Mr. White.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0134par0487	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have taken a pledge on behalf of the budgetary budget for the 2021th budget of the President of Strategy and Budget and Communications, and I salute your grand delegation. Precious lawmakers have been envisioned to make budget production and management more effective, budget planning more efficient, and budget performance more closely monitored, and budget discipline will be strengthened, but when we look at the figures in 2020, we see that discipline of the budget is not even done, given the current budget deficit. More than that, I believe your budgetary goals have collapsed before we even arrived at our House. Dear lawmakers, the presidency's communications presidency has been working as if it were a propaganda ministry since day one. Opposition is being spoken to, it's going into polymia, aggressive language, efforts to get involved in politics, accreditation policies, the President of Communication, which is a subject of controversy, unfortunately, is difficult to communicate. Communication Chairman, 1,500 employees, 18 regional managers, 36 press advisers and a huge institution with the head of eight apartments. Translating to a propaganda agency, the Communication Presidency has become a heavy pressure mechanism that cancels press cards by journalists who are not happy with the line, does not deny journalists who can't cancel their press cards, prevents them from getting a share of the official ads of the newspapers, sets up audits on the media. Communication is no different from the former head of Social Communication within the MGK, the Strategic Communication and Crisis Management Agency during February 28th. Those who say they've removed custody have established the custody organs themselves. Dear lawmakers, the President of Communication has been earmarked for $344m,531k last year. An important part of this allocation went to the giant cast within its body. We'd like to know what these 1,500 people do for a living. And then there's $47 million on social media. Why does the EC PARTY, which is constantly complaining about social media, set up such a huge budget for social media? Where will this money go on social media, to whom? Why are you wasting this nation's taxes on a place you'd close if you could? [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Today, social media is the only place where people can express themselves partially freely. It's written that you're turning it into pool media, and our nation doesn't trust visual media anymore, so don't touch social media. You'll need that freedom tomorrow. Look, if it wasn't for Instagram, the ministers of your party wouldn't be able to explain their resignation. You will not be able to announce your resignation on social media tomorrow as you leave the sinking ship. Today, the trolls you've been budgeting, they come in there and try to strangle you. Dear lawmakers, Turkey is in a difficult economic situation. Our nation struggles to survive, we experience a great depression, and the number of unemployed is increasing day by day. Inflation, you reduce the weight of food and make inflation low. You're wasting the money you've collected from the citizen. Our people are so desperate that they've given up looking for work. Let me tell you something. A government administrator's reputation depends not on the palace in which he resides, but on the car in which he rides; but on the confidence of the nation and on the welfare of the nation. The reputation of a government that collects food out of garbage cannot be saved by palaces, luxury cars, and planes; people are poor, but you are honorable, people are hungry, but you challenge the world. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] You're not just spending the money you collected today, you're wasting the future of our children. My teacher, my mother's Internet is running out, so the condition of our children who say they can't go to class won't put us to sleep. You don't move your hair, you make a bunch of followers rich by guaranteeing $30 worth of treasure for a $3 job. You can't support the tradesman who's affected by the plague, but you're paying people a handful of money to build bridges, highways, tunnels that you guarantee treasure. Mr. President, we are determined not to feed Turkey's resources to those who feed on crisis and chaos. How do you explain the fact that all of Turkey is working for five contractors? Look, in the World Bank report, there are five Turkish companies on the list of the world's largest government tenders, an exemplary list. In education, in sports, in science, in the list of achievements we can't get close to in national income, we've practically branded it in the field of sequential attraction. ODTÜ didn't make it to the top 10th place in Bilkent, but Genghis Construction entered; Galatasaray, Fenerbahçe, Beşiktaş failed to make the finals, but Limak Holdings failed to make a breakthrough in Turkey's national income, but Kolin Construction did. This is the AK PARTI power that has ruled Turkey for 18 years. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Look, dear friends, your economic policies, your failed pandemic administration is a devastating influence in society; our citizens are in debt, living conditions are worsening, our people are having trouble getting along, you've left no cushions, our citizens are left with their fate. Look, in the first six months of this year, 1,655,000 of our citizens -- because they couldn't pay -- electricity and natural gas were cut off. You connect the hope of stopping the plague to the citizen you imprisoned in the house, but you cut off the electricity, natural gas from the citizen in the house. Dear lawmakers, the budget we're talking about is an unequal, unfair budget that will burden the nation, the worker, the officer, the pensioner, the shopkeeper, the farmer. This budget is a budget that does not save money from authority. It is a budget that does not save money from palaces, luxury vehicles, but calls on the Turkish nation to save money. This budget is a budget to deepen inequality, to make our citizens even poorer. This is the budget that makes all its contracts with dollars, even in its own country, which is borrowed by American dollars. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Dear lawmakers, in this budget, the heart would wish that we had a share of healthcare workers who have been fighting the epidemic for nearly a year, if the real heroes of the health system, which you can't quite finish, had been met with a little bit of the demands of our medics. At least let the health workers of the health of this nation be rewarded with a life and pension that is worthy of human honor, but this budget, which does not think about its people, of course, has not thought about the health worker. The AK PARTY has actually demonstrated its value to the Turkish nation by not giving its dues to health workers at such a time. Guys, look, I've got this month's payroll for a health worker. The total income is $5.073, the total is $2.367, and the remaining net monthly salary is $2.706, which is half of its salary. Give me a break, guys. Is that a reward for the human being? Is this the kind of blackout that suits the state's paternity? Come, let's call this unconscionableness a halt together. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] I say we save our health worker from the evil of the inflation monster who is fighting the Covid virus, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0135par0506	The order belongs to Mr. Ibrahim Halil Oral. Here you go, Mr. Oral.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0136par0509	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the well-placed group on the budget of the President of Religious Affairs. I salute the General Assembly. I'd like to begin with the name of Veteran Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, our first President of the Religious Affairs, Rifat Börekçi, the national martial hero, who led us to the afterlife. Respected MPs, the President of the Religious Affairs is not just any institution. It is a strategic institution in terms of the stay of the Turkish state and the eternal life of Islam in this land. Because Diyanet is an heir to the Islamic tradition from Turkish nation's teacher Ahmet Yesevi, the Imam of Azam Abu Hanife. Because the Religion is responsible for defending the knowledge of the Anatolian people, the way of life and understanding against the perverted currents. So the Religion must be an intellectual argument against those who take its teachings from Cairo and from the mentality of the Vehhabi and the Selefi. For it is God who will bring a people who love them, who love God, who are humble toward the believers, who stand firm against the unbelievers, who strive in the way of God, and fear no one to reproach them. This roof should be the protector of all true sects and beliefs, even Christians, Jews, for short. But today, unfortunately, some things are going wrong. Dear lawmakers, Islam is an open universal religion for thought, research and interpretation. In this context, the Turkish nation has its own Islamic interpretation, and this interpretation has its own side, like the foot of a compass, to our great book, the Qur'an, and its part to its flesh and blood, the circumcision. However, during the time of the AK PARTI rulings, two warped minds were violently attacking this comment, and unfortunately it found the ground. One is an organization that uses the means of legitimacy of our religion to perform parallel state structures and acts of terror, while the other is a foreign degenerate and distant from the universal messages of Islam to the people of Asia Minor. I'm afraid the Head of Religious Affairs is behind in dealing with these warped mentalitys. An example of this is an ISIS terrorist organization matter. Mr. Erbaş, the chairman of the Religious Affairs Department, has often expressed that ISIS and other organisations have emerged with secular factors. This is extremely wrong and incomplete. These terrorist organizations have an ideology, that ideology is a source of legitimacy by twisting Islam's message. The fight against radicalism must be done again with the right sources of information from Islam. A DAEŞ report was published by the Diet in 2015. This report is the defence text of Ibn Teymiya, the first ideological source of radical Selafi terrorist organisations, and its Mongol and Mardin fetishes. I mean, that's the basis of the fetishes of selefi ideology. The Mongols are infidels because they enforce the law of Genghis Khan, and the Shiites are infidels. Those who refuse to accept that the work is part of faith are heretics, which means that the entire Islamic world is in fact infidels, and it is necessary to fight and fight against them. So, like in Syria and Iraq, Muslims can kill Muslims. They are wanted to be called Muslims. How in God's name is this defendable and how do you plead? (Applause from the GOOD PARTY) Our President, Meral Akşener Ma'am, has often stressed that the ideology of power is the teaching of Cairo. The AK PARTI authorities are going to raise a religious generation. Hasan al Benna, like Ibn Teymiya, tries to make us accept ideas that are foreign to us, such as the Muslim Brotherhood approach. We, as a Turkish nation, must hold the trial of the rationality of Yasevi Tasevüf, Imam Maâturidî, Abu Hanife, İmam Shafii, not the teaching of Cairo. We must defend the teaching of Haci Bektas Veli, not Abdulvehhab. We must defend the unity of Muslims and believers with all kinds of sects. That is the true domesticity and nationality. (PEOPLE APPLAUSE) I would also like to add that the religion speaks of Palestine, Jerusalem, and Macron. I sincerely congratulate them on these matters, but for some reason, we will Chineseize Islam. He won't even open his mouth to his assimilation policies. When are we going to hear East Turkistan's speech on Friday, for God's sake? When will you speak against the attacks of China against Islam, against mosque destruction? Honourable lawmakers, these mistakes I am summing up should be added to the matter of the power using religious belonging to political Ranta. Behold! Allah saith in the Surah of Nisa: verily Allah commandeth you that ye should deliver the trusts unto their owners, and that, when ye judge between men, judge with justice. And who do you entrust the government to? The man of this congregation, the chancellor, the man of this cult, the head of the apartment, you say, "Let's make an exception to this foundation." You are disregarding the order of Islam's justice, dear lawmakers. (APPLAUSE) This approach demonstrates a biased sense of faith, causes insecurity among our people, over which you judge a way of looking at Islam, which does not offer understanding, but interprets only by stories. What's the result? Atheism and deism are rising in Turkey. Respected lawmakers, when I asked Mr. Fuat Oktay. When I asked him about this in a Plan and Budget Commission, he said, "There is no scientific data available in the hands of those who claim that atheism and precision has become widespread." See, what scientific data says: Atheism has increased from one percent to three percent, compared to the study of KOLDA, which compares 2010 to 2019. According to Themis Research, the proportion of those who call themselves atheists or nonbelievers has increased to 6%. According to data from the study, the deist is six percent atheist, four percent agnostic. According to a survey conducted by Metropoll Research this year, the number of atheists in our country is 5%. What in God's name is this, not scientific data? Do you ever wonder what happened in 2002, what happened in 2020? In 2018 there were similar results in a study of the National Education Directorate of Iconia, which Mr. President Ismet Yilmaz. In the EC PARTY Group, he put the National Education Minister on the stand, so to speak, and scolded him. By denying it, these facts don't disappear. Dear MPs, come, let us set up a religious research commission under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Let's be pioneers in a scientific study that will reflect the values of people from all over the parties, where the faculty of dialogue and theology will participate actively. Now, in this environment, when the religious structure of the Turkish nation is being injured, when atheism is increasing, you spend millions on peyzaja in Denizli, you drive millions of cars, and on top of that, your advisor can come out and say, "We can't afford it." (APPLAUSE) If you do this, the budget of the Religion and the Dianet can become a target. Look, what Sezai Karakoc says: "Live in Islam, so that it may live in you who come to kill you." Unfortunately, you can't live in Islam. He flees from Islam, who sees you and your practices, and he cools from Islam, and then someone comes out, and he says, "Let the religion be shut down." And I strongly condemn and even pity that mentality. Religion is an indispensable institution. Religion, faith, and heart are the heightened, consolidated name of our world in the eyes of the state. Our problem is eating grapes, not beating up the laces. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I will continue my constructive and impartial criticisms until the religion is directed correctly against those who are ruled correctly. And I will continue until the religion is free from the bondage of politics. With these feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0137par0522	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0138par0525	Mr. President, thank you. Now, the joint statement on sanctions has just been read, and we'd like to share our reasons for not signing with Turkey's public: We had taken a stand against the S-400 missile deal with Russia as HDP, and on the other hand we criticised the unsustainable approach of the government, which reduced diplomacy and bilateral relations with the United States to personal relations with US President Trump. We also stated that the S-400 agreement, called the Syrian War and later Afrin negotiations, was not a simple military trade agreement. The future of CAATSA sanctions that have been automaticly applied since 2017 has been known at that time, and now we find it not sincere and rational to approach countries buying military supplies from Russia as if it were an unexpected development. This government is responsible for the sanctions against Turkey. The government's antidemocratic, illegal and aggressive policies have left Turkey alone internationally, severely discredited. Turkey would not be at this point today if only 1 per cent of our warnings, our criticisms so far had been taken into account. Of course, the government must seriously consider that Turkey has been put in this position and exposed to sanctions. Finally, I would like to point out that we have been critical of the current policies of power for years, while we have also been fighting against Turkey's failure to face such a picture, and today we have the same attitude. The way to oppose sanctions is not to align behind the policies of power that drive the country to the brink, but to stand in its way. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing, Mr. President, my last sentence.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0139par0531	Complete.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0138par0532	It is the continuation of hypocritical politics that those who cause this painting should have suffered a great deal of embarrassment, while those who are responsible for the outside forces. We do not participate in this game, and we direct our criticism to those responsible for the sanctions, the power that put Turkey in this position. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0140par0535	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0141par0536	Mr. Rich...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0140par0538	Mr. President, this is not a game, this is the truth of Turkey and the world. It's not just the AK PARTY you're accusing here, we've got friends from four other political parties who signed it, or rather, they've signed it on behalf of my Group Vice President friends, their own groups, thank you. You have to see the matter very clearly here. So it's another thing to make decisions on this issue in Turkey, it's an act, it's an opposition, it's another thing to another country from the outside, it's an sanction related to the right of sovereignty of Turkey, it's a matter of its own right to make decisions. Here, it is a sad picture of Turkey as a free, independent state, not being opposed to another country's decision of sanctions on where to take what, how to take it, how to spend it. That's what we mean when we say Indian and national opposition. I'd like to personally thank my friends at the other political party. The issue here is the attitude against Turkey, and I think for once at least, Turkey is waiting for the HDP Group to stand next to Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0142par0542	I don't think they're citizens of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0143par0543	No, Turkey is separate...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0144par0544	It's one thing to be with Turkey, but it's another to be with the AKP.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0145par0545	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0146par0546	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0145par0548	Mr. President, we don't have to align ourselves behind any policy of power.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0146par0549	Okay, that's what you said.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0145par0550	We're showing that we're on the side of the people of Turkey with this attitude. This sentence was given not to Turkey, but to the policies of this government. This is the punishment for Turkey itself, we are Turkish friends, and they need to feel responsible for causing this punishment. In this regard, let the people of Turkey be sanctioned by us. It implies that we have a saying like this, but it is wrong. I end up pointing to the irrationality: let's have the S.S.-400. Let's have the F-35. Let's have the F-35. Let's have the F-16. Let the S-400s drop the others. Let's not NATO interfere with us. So in the end, we have the rules of international law and diplomacy, we have to play each game by the rules. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In fact, we experience that they can't mock the world's mind, but they also mock everyone's minds in Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0146par0554	Thank you. Mr. Rich, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0147par0557	Mr. President, I need to add a sentence. I mean, are we mocking the world's mind, or is the world mocking ours? I don't get it. The world can take whatever it wants, act wherever it wants, and act unfairly and unfairly wherever it wants, and when it suits it, it can be around another country when it suits it. Whatever interests Turkey has for Turkey, Turkey is a sovereign country, it defines its foreign policy as separate, it forms its own industry, it is the same for the defence industry, it is the same for others, and it does not have to take permission from anyone while doing so. Oh, well, we're not surprised at you, you've never been on the side of the country, of our country, of Turkey, of anything related to Turkey. That's confirmation, and the public is already seeing it. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0146par0559	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0148par0560	Mr. President, for the record.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0146par0561	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0148par0562	There's no such procedure in this House. He represents power, we represent opposition. There's been a statement, and we're explaining why we didn't sign the statement.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0149par0563	It's an extra-party announcement, over-party!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0146par0564	Well, thank you, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0148par0565	It's unacceptable for them to accuse us of it that way.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0150par0566	Mr. President, if he does this without attacking us, there's no problem with the procedure, of course they can't sign it.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0151par0567	You're not Turkey, you're not Turkey!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0148par0568	Also, there is no Ozlem Rich Turkey, and the AKP is not Turkey, so there is no such thing.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0150par0569	We went out with kindness, we asked; they have every right not to, but they can't do that by accusing us, not by accusing us.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0152par0570	Well, thank you, thank you. 1) presidential Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Central Management Final Account for the presidency 2019 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2021 Central Management Budget 2) National Intelligence Agency Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2021 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board Secretary General 2019 Central Management Terms C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget of 2021 2) The Central Management Final Account for the President of Religious Affairs 2019 1) President of State Archives 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Archives Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget of 2021 2) Central Management Final Account for the Executive Board of National Palaces 2019 1) Strategy and Budget President 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Communication Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account THE PRESIDENT OF THE SURVIVATION [[Continue]] 1) Defence Industry Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Defence Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0153par0608	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Movement Party Group on the budgets of the President's budget and the president's institutions, the President of the State Archives and the President of the National Court. On this occasion, I salute your high council and our beloved nation, watching over us on their screens. We condemn and reject the United States' decision that includes unilateral sanctions against Turkey. There is no doubt that the Turkish nation is with our defence industry president and our other bureaucrats, who have been made happy. The Republic of Turkey is fully independent and will remain so. Turkey will continue to take the necessary measures to defend its national security and national support and to write epics in the defence industry. Dear lawmakers, the Covid-19 epidemic has had a negative effect on economic and social life in our country as it has all over the world. Turkey quickly implemented a series of measures to reduce the impact of the outbreak on the economy and on the communities. However, due to the outbreak, the total number of people who are unable to do business, the total number of those who have reached 1,339,438 people, will be extended by 1 June to the end of the month's income loss of a thousand lira a month and the loan of $ 750 lira a month in major cities, $500 in rent support in other cities; job rental services, VAT rent, VAT rents, and mortgage reductions on our family's pensions, which have been cut down from passenger transport to maintenance, maintenance to repair; we ask for the benefit of the tax workers who lost their lives during the epidemic, due to the rapid cost of their pensions, due to the payment of their pensions, which we have been able to pay for several loans due to their pensions yesterday, from their families. We fully support these issues as the National Movement Party. The presidential structure includes nine policy boards, four offices, one Executive Affairs Chairman and 10 other organisations. The presidency's budget spending of 2019 was totaled at $3.9 billion, except for its subsidiaries. The budget of 2021 envisions an allocation of $4.4 billion. The job of the President's Human Resources Office is to produce projects to ensure the development of human resources in accordance with Turkey's vision, goals and priorities, and to do the necessary work needed to improve public employment and competence. The Human Resources Office has been working on promoting internship activities, raising awareness of university youth's part-time employment and major projects. The internship programme for university students was cited as an example in the OECD (OECD)'s 2020 Youth and Circumstances Management Report, in the field of public human resources and career management. In our country, the arrangements for a healthy manpower plan to establish an educational employment relationship must be made quickly. A public-owned public staff system that will be based on driver's licenses and liabilities, will satisfy status and employment chaos, will provide wage justice, will provide quality service to society, will be able to adapt to changing conditions, and will be more efficient. The contractual, temporary, proxy, honorary and paid staffing must end outside of very special circumstances. Actual government services must be staffed. The class of auxiliary services must be removed and the staff in this class must be taken into general management services. The Presidential Office of Digital Transformation; Digital Turkey Portali, doing very important work in the field of large data, cyber security and artificial intelligence. The number of services offered in our country from the E- State Gate is 5,287 as of November 2020, and is intended to increase to 5,500 in 2021. The number of registered users at the E- State Gate is 51.5 million people as of November 2020 and is estimated to reach 57 million people in 2021. Turkey was ranked 23, the 22, the 22, E-City Index in the 193 countries of the United Nations E-state Development Index in 2020, and the 23, in the Online Service Index. On the other hand, in the overall study of e-state indexes in the EU 2020, our country has risen to the 13th ranking in the 26th row. Studies on the design of public services to produce value in accordance with user demands and needs should continue to be provided in electronics and enhancement of use. In public, the coordination of cyber security must be met under one roof, boosting the activity, making necessary arrangements for sharing public data. The public institutions' information communication technology investments need to establish procedures and foundations for increasing local added value, and the institutional supply plans for this purpose must be prepared. In the 2023 Industrial and Technology Strategy, road maps were planned to develop national and original products and services in focused technologies, including information and data analysis of objects, large data and data analysis, cyber security and bloc chain spaces. In this context, the A.I. strategy is coordinated with the Office of Digital Transformation and the relevant institutions. The development of cooperation between public, private sector, universities and NGOs should create a digital transformation ecosystem. In addition, digital transformation centers should be established in the industry to support digital transformation. Precious lawmakers, the Presidential Investment Office is set up to work to encourage investment in Turkey, co-ordinating the international investment environment as part of promotional activities, contributing to the reform process on improving the investment climate and developing proposals are part of the office's duties. In recent years, various reformary regulations for improving the business climate have been implemented in our country, and progress has been made in this area. In the World Bank's Doing Business Report, Turkey was ranked 58, 58, from 190 countries in 2017 to 43 in 2018, to 33, in 2019. According to Central Bank data, the international direct investment into Turkey was $9.1 billion in 2019, with $12.5 billion in 2021. In the international direct investment, Turkey's share is intended to be 0.55 per cent in 2019 and 0.80 per cent for 2021. As the National Movement Party, we support Turkey's efforts to turn it into an investment attraction and its initial investment campaign. We find the technology-focused Industrial Movement programme that is being implemented important. We advocate the creation of a predictable, stable and reliable environment for investment in legal norms, taxation and bureaucratic transactions, and an effective promotion to attract more international direct investments into our country. As the National Movement Party, we don't look at the country for whose capital comes for investment. What matters to us is the national interests of Turkey. What's important for us is the technological yield of investments in domestic or foreign capital, the added value, production and employment contribution, especially the domestic and nationality of products produced. In our country, there are many applications for domestic and national production, with domestic and foreign capital. From these, products that were originally done in the defence industry are being modeled and admired worldwide. Turkey's defence industry is built on Turkey's vision of global power. Our nation is proud to have Turkey in the field of defence industry in the Champions League. The national helicopter engine, the drones, the SIHA, the ships, the armored vehicles and weapons designed and built by Turkish engineers, swells the nation's chest. The Presidential Finance Office was established to monitor and analyse the national and international banking and financial sector, report Turkey's position in the financial markets, diversify financial resources, and conduct international funding projects that enable international funds to come to our country and run the Istanbul International Financial Centre Project. The Istanbul International Financial Centre Project is scheduled to be implemented in 2022. The Istanbul Financial Centre continues to work on the establishment of Istanbul Financial and Technology Base in order to attract investors, as well as to boost economic, academic activities and organisation activities in the field of financial technology in our country. We find it very important to create a strong financial sector of institutional structure, which can respond to the real sector's need for financing at a low cost, which can offer different financial tools to a large investment base through reliable institutions. A road map for the development of a secure financial technology ecosystem that provides opportunity equality for companies should be created, and strategy document studies should be completed. Alternate financial transactions on deepening financial markets and expanding non-banking sectors are rapidly spreading throughout the world. The Participants Financial System plays an important role in the integration of savings into the economy and support of the sustainable economy. The Participant Financial System must be strengthened in our country's financial system, and the variety of products and services in the field of participation must be developed, and human resources must be developed, and tools and mechanisms to support policy development processes. Dear lawmakers, along with the presidential government system, have been established as President of the Republic Communications Presidency with a new vision, including public diplomacy and strategic communications areas. The budget spending of the communications presidency in 2019 is $377.8 million. The budget of 2021 envisions a grant of $422.8m. In the 10th month of 2020, the number of applications for CIMER (CIMER), which operates within the framework of the Communication Presidency, was about 5 million. CIMER, an exemplary study that announced its name to the world at the point of state-national interaction and participating democracy, won the Golden Globe Perfection in public affairs at the competition organised by the International Society for Public Relations. The political, economic, cultural and social risk of our country's geography, however, is a wide area of opportunity, revealing the importance of communication in today's world, which is called information and network society. In this framework, the introduction of our country with the right information and all aspects of our national interests, the high ranking of the Turkish brand, the institutionalisation of a positive tradition of communication and interaction with the national and international community, the public diplomacy strategy document must be prepared, the public diplomacy activities must be carried out in co-directional understanding and these activities should be concentrated. In recent years, we have often been exposed to disintegration and black propaganda activities about Turkey. Turkey's rising activity at regional and global levels has led to a process in which hostile campaigns against Turkey have been conducted by states, with its firmness towards threats, oppression and oppression, and its determination to protect our national interests. The Communication Presidency successfully fulfils its responsibility in its field, including fighting disenchanting and territorial propaganda for Turkey, strengthening state and citizen relations, and sharing accurate information with the national and international community along with documents. Turkey's rise, its right approach to peace and solution-oriented policies, human values and the centre of universal justice is explained to the world in its struggle with many terrorist organizations that threaten humanity. The Communication Presidency also contributes directly to further development of our democracy, with the responsibility of making the activities of both national and local media and international media members who operate in our country easier work and process. Our press and broadcasters and press employees have some problems. Press employees don't have their own professional code. Internet journalism is also considered to be the necessary arrangement. The definition of employees in the press and journalism profession must be defined and all should be used to the share of wear and tear. The Covid-19 outbreak has also affected the media sector. Further measures must be taken to the sector and especially to local media in distress. Local media should be given more than public advertising. Loan support should be provided under local media conditions; this support should be long-term and should support employment in the sector, considering the needs for technological development and investment. In the press sector, the added value tax on advertising and official ads should be reduced, and customs taxes should be made easy for newspapers. In recent years, it has been a pleasure to see local and national films about Turkish history on television channels. In this regard, we are particularly grateful to our TRT General Manager and to the staff and to the executives of our other television networks. He who doesn't know his past doesn't know his future. We can't build bridges of the future without embracing the past. It is the nature of the mind that societies with historical consciousness have the will to grasp the future, that the nations fall behind the age, that they follow things behind. The production and screening of films about God's name and justice to the world should be boosted and especially supported in the production and televisions of our government elders, spiritual leaders and heroes. Dear MPs, the identification of documents available to public institutions and individuals in our country is the head of the State Archives, the institution in charge of bringing them into the archive and making use of them. The President of the State Archives, with the Ottoman era and the Republican archive documents, is one of the authority institutions in the world to verify national and international history. This situation must be better understood by studying awareness abroad and abroad. The state archives presidency's budget spending of 2019 was 99.4m euros, with an allocation of 172.7m in the budget of 2021. The head of the National Government of Saracens is tasked with maintaining, maintaining, restoring, managing, and operating the palace, mansion, Kasser, museums and historical factories under the presidency. The budget spending of 130m euros in 2019 of the head of the National Government of Palaces was paid by 45.7m from the central management budget and 90.3m from the private budget. The budget for the 2021 year of the presidency is envisioned for $230.4m. Honourable MPs will perform the Shebiarus ceremony on Thursday evening as part of the 747th Vuslat Anniversary Ceremony Ceremony of Konya. For this occasion, I call upon the Lord God, to have mercy, and to be thankful, and to give thanks; and I call upon him to God, that Shebiarus should be a cause of good and good. He wishes that the budgets of the presidency and its institutions, which we support as the National Movement Party, of the year 2021, be prosperous and prosperous, with my compliments to you and to our beloved nation.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0154par0637	The order belongs to Mr. Yasar Yıldırım. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0155par0640	Mr. President, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I have made a commitment to the budget of our President of Religious Affairs. Honourable MPs are an organization founded on 3 March 1924 by Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, President of Religious Affairs, to conduct and manage the religious institutions of Law 429, and to conduct the religious affairs of Islamic religion concerning religion and worship. Islam protects 5 basic values: life protects, wealth protects, intelligence protects, protects generation, protects religion. As of this sentence, the most important duty of the Head of Religious Affairs is to protect Islam, to protect religion. Does religion need protection? And Allah is Ever All-Sufficient for His religion. If his dog gets a reward from this, he'll be fine. From the day the Prophet began the public declaration, he faced the enemies of Islam. Mecca also came to Medina, where the pagans had been expelled from their homes, and had come to Medina, and had met the Jews of Medina, and the Crusades of Medina, which have continued so far, began their preparations from the moment the Prophet (ASV) came to Medina, and the Crusades came to Tebük. Behold, the first Crusade came by Herakleios, with an army of 50,000 men, to Tebuk, to Damascus. So since then the Crusades have not stopped and the Crusades continue. The Crusades to this geography were the Saladdin Eyyubis, the Kılıçarslans, the Alparslans, Osman Gaziler, Mustafa Kemaller, who had always turned and endured, did not violate geography. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] The Crusades continue today, but the Crusades have changed shapes, disguises. The last Crusade took place in this country on the night of July 15th. (MHP and AK PARTY) The terrorist organization has collected our people; they have found our smartest people, collected money from the nation, raised it carefully for 40 years, 50 years, and attempted to conquer this country overnight. That's the political leader who struck the Crusades first that night, our esteemed President, our leader, State Gardener. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Again, I would like to thank all the staff, the muezzins, the imams, and the presidents of the Diyanet Affairs presidency, who raised Turkey that night, raised Turkey, and raised the crusader, and increased the resistance to the Crusader. Again, however, on that night, this Veteran Parliament received its second title. I want to thank all my fellow lawmakers, who have resisted, who have taken a stand here, from the bottom of their hearts, God bless them all. (MHP and AK PARTY) The Crusades continue, and the fifth arm activities become more erratic. You see, there's an Islamic terrorist organization everywhere. There's no logic or reason to bring Islam and terror together. Next thing you know, Boko Haram, somewhere is DEAC, ISIS. What are they doing? They cut off the Muslim Muslim; they do no harm to the Christian, to the Jew. The one who died also says, "Allahu Akbar." You catch the ISIS guy and send him to Austria. What's he doing, Austria? He's letting me go. Why is he letting me go? To act as a terrorist, to spread Islamophobia around the world. We shouldn't let them. One of the most important tasks of diabetes is to cut off the human resources of terrorist organizations -- Koran courses under the stairs, prevent and supervise activities of uncertain associations or foundations. In this regard, the world continues to attack Islam every day. Where does it go on? It continues in Europe. For years, the Prophet has been insulted in France. The latest, French President Macron, has brought Parliament an offer to humanize the divine religion, and the offer has been passed. What's this? This is a war against God. Like Macron Nimrod, Macron waged war on God, like Pharaoh. Pharaoh and Nemrod will have their end. The end of Jesus, and Moses the Lord, is known, and the end of Abraham the Lord, and the end of Macron. However, you turn and look, and we come to the Middle East... Before arriving in the Middle East, the most important concern of Macron's activities that confuse our minds is that the leaders of the Islamic countries come and receive the greatest engagement from France. Does that cause confusion? It's happening. Egypt's President Sisi came, and received the greatest engagement from Macron, from the enemy of God. You come to the Middle East... and the Muslims have three harems: Haremen Mecca, Medina, and Jerusalem, another harem. Jerusalem is occupied by Jews today, and has become a city where Muslims can't go. But as we look at it, the leaders of the United Arab Emirates began to build protocols, trades, deals with Israel, which they had not been in contact with until yesterday. The interesting thing was that yesterday, while the Karabağ wars continued, they brought Armenian flags to all the buildings of Dubai, and hung them, and decorated Dubai with Armenian flags. There's a front, there's a purpose to this front, and Turkey is fighting on the front in six or seven places, let's open another front, let's lose weight with that front. Everyone has a reckoning, and God has a reckoning. What happened? In forty-four days, Turkish lands occupied by Armenians for 28 years were seized. (MHP and AK PARTY) This is the account of God. Now, the interesting thing is, they all come together, they're enemies of Turkey, they're enemies of the Turkish nation. Macron is the enemy of Turkey, the Turkish President is the enemy of Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The enemy of God is our greatest honor, our honor, our dignity. May God not deprive us of this honor and honor. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Precious MPs, from time to time, let's shut down the religion, not give money to mosques, what's the use of these mosques, that's bad, that's bad... some institutions don't help anyone to argue; there's no use to anyone to argue about the Red or the Diet. We know that mosques are the places where God is remembered; mosques are the places of the city; mosques are the symbols of those cities; they are the symbols of independence. There's no money in the mosque. He builds mosques, he builds communities, he builds citizens, he builds associations, he builds foundations. Does the Foundation of Religion build mosques? Of course he does. Is he doing it? He does, and the money that the Dianet Foundation collects is at times a dollar each, $10 per dollar, $20 per dollar; it's a rich amount of money that leaves huge artifacts behind. I explained from this bench last year: there's 10 liras for the Foundation of Religion, and there's a thousand liras for it, and there's a billion dollars for it. One of the highest bidders is our late Prime Minister, Bulent Ecevit. He donated his grandfather's $300m worth of money to the Religion Foundation in Medina. What's this? It's 300 mosques. What's this? This is a message that has been sent to us. Therefore, it is no use to speak to the mosque, to speak to the Foundation of Religion, to curse the mosque. Precious MPs, our belief is that this geography is the last refuge of the Ummethimuhammed. This geography is the last refuge for all Muslims in the world. The Turkish nation is the older brother of Muslims in the world. For that reason, the Foundation of Religion, the President of Religious Affairs, has established his organization all over the world, the older brother of Muslims in the world. That is the grace of Allah unto us, the Lord of the Worlds. May God not deprive us of His bounty. Dear lawmakers, if we pass through without saying the pilgrimage and Umre services of the Dianet after you say "Dianet," it would be unfair to the President of Religious Affairs here. The pilgrims know that millions of people have to be in the same places at the same time, they want huge organizations. So, these organizations that the Dianet is doing there are the most prominent among other Islamic countries. So, thank you very, very much for all the officers and the members of the religious staff that our president has assigned to the pilgrimage and the umre. Precious lawmakers, there are imams in Dianet's own personnel policy, contractual imams and similar imams. The imam has no proxy, the imam is the original. We recommend religious imams, we send our child to the Qur'an course, we call for the birth of a child, we call for an imam, we receive the mercy of Hakk. We say, "Come imam, wash this." Again, they put us in the flood. We say, "Come, imam, pray." We are born with imam, we die with imam, we are born with imam, we die with imam, we are born with Islam, we die with Islam. Therefore, the imam does not have a proxy, but the imams should be the original. Half an imam is worth half a doctor's life from religion. For this reason, Mr. President of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, government officials, protect our imams, not our imams, but our imams. We love them, and we pray behind them, and we follow their footsteps. Let not the imam see any sorrow in him, nor let him grieve in his children. These are the people who have dedicated their lives to spreading the religion of God and to teaching the religion of God, and we must take care of our imams. On my way here, a friend of mine texted me: " Criticize the diet. " As I said at first, some institutions are of no use to be judged. As the Crusaders come against us, the criticism of the Dianet, the most important institution in the fight against the Crusaders, is the help of the Crusaders, the support of the Crusaders. So we -- of course, there's a lack of religion, of course -- we want everyone from our President of Religious Affairs to pay attention to the state, movement, behavior, because wherever he walks, walks, eats, gets up, he represents Muslims, represents Islam. Time's up, precious MPs, there's so much to talk about, we leave it unfinished. I call upon the good luck of our budget to our country, to our state, from the Lord God.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0156par0662	The order belongs to Mr. Mustafa Hidayet Vahaboglu.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0157par0664	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on behalf of the budgetary account for 2019 and the budgetary bill for 2021, the head of the National Intelligence Agency, the head of the Defence Industry, and the budget for the Secretary General of the National Security Board. On this occasion, I salute our Veteran Assembly. Before I begin my talk, or at the beginning of my talk, I would like to briefly mention the U.S. Law on fighting opponents through sanctions. As far as it's known, Mr. Ismail Demir Hoxhaya, our Defence Industry President, and three staff members, have been banned from freezing their assets and visas related to his co-worker, and the President of Defense Industries has been prohibited from borrowing from the United States and international financial institutions. Dear friends, I'm calling this decision against four of our friends, four of our public officials, who have been subjected to this exercise in the Defense Industry presidency -- of course, Turkey is being punished over these four names. (MHP cheers) Because no other state can determine from whom a state can buy weapons. Plus, the NATO union, which encouraged the United States of America, does not allow that. Because no document of NATO is listed in any document as the sole supplier of the United States Republic of Turkey. We're an independent state; we get what we want, what we want, what we need. Let no one cast a role for us, especially in the United States of America. Turkey has no commitment in any international text whatsoever. Also, to see if this can be applied, the esteemed members of our Grand National Assembly need to think, and the cabinet of the presidency needs to think: since we are being evaluated as part of the fight against their opponents through sanctions, how do we see them if the United States considers us hostile? This needs to be evaluated. In addition, the United States is the only supplier of almost 80 per cent of NATO countries in particular, and I think that the way to obtain goods and materials from abroad should be investigated, at least for a while. Because the best answer for them is to cut the faucet off the money that's going to flow to them. They're all apps for selling goods. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are full of the work of our three important, key institutions, sacrifice, courage and altruism. I'd like to start my discussion of these three institutions by referring to a few common issues that concern the field of these institutions. There is talk of World Wars One, World War II, even the Third World War Postmodern. It is believed that as long as people can walk the streets and do their social, economic, cultural, and so forth as they desire to do so, the wars of domination are over, life is normalized. However, wars continue through economic, cultural, diplomatic, or terrorism, in the form of open or custody and hybridity. We usually remember Hollywood movies when it comes to war. Since we don't experience the horror of war, the horror of conflict, we don't know what the importance is, and we're in need of it, and we don't realize the real war. But the wars are going on, and we know that most of the countries we know are friends, that they support our enemies from under our hands, and that they fight us indirectly. Let's take the example of Germany, for example, not to show how to fight us, but to show how to fight another way. The German Empire has lost its lands in the First and Second World War, and not only has its economic, cultural and political power returned to its influence today, we see that the German Empire and Hitler Germany are trying to dominate with the sword, tank, tank, cannon, and even buy out Polish, Czechia, Austria, Slovakia, Hungary, Montenegro, almost all small industrial facilities, RD companies, banks, insurance companies, insurance companies, even their bakeryes, bread ovens, stationary shops, and they are being done for psychological pressure to determine the rules. Another area is the subject of control of the human brain and perception. There's no weapons or ammunition here either. This process is conducted through media, educational institutions and influence agents. France, Britain, the United States, even Italy, has received the children of almost all of the country's rulers in Front Asia, Africa, and Far Asia, and are delivered to them. In these countries, both the ruling class and the bureaucratic class and the technocratic part grow these foreign countries. The areas where they raise employees are not limited to the public, to the economy, but also to the field of religion. Example: Britain, which is not a country of Islam, is able to raise people who live by the great scholars of the Islamic world on religious matters. The target countries are being handed over by these occupied generations, and they're getting the most effortless of them all. There are no weapons in postmodern extortion, there are no soldiers, there is no loss of military personnel, vehicle and equipment; there is no response from society because there are no funerals in the flag-wrapped coffins sent to your country. Sometimes the manager, sometimes the public maker, sometimes the academic, sometimes the military, sometimes even the media, even political collaborators are driven into the field to control the will of the countries, the brains. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the technologies developed by civilian experts in today's wars are used to serve military strategies. For this reason, there is little need for large manpower to be driven to the front, and almost all of the countries who have done so have dominated the countries without firing bullets. Today, the feared dream of countries that dominate countries without firing bullets is pollution, disease, and natural disasters, which can result in the destruction of a couple of microbiologists, chemists, computer hackers. You can now lock countries in their homes through software or a virus. Some countries still produce biological warfare, weapons and vehicles to control possible developments -- like the United States -- under innocent names, in parentheses. The French Armed Forces Ethics Board has allowed drugs and surgeries that will dull the soldier's sense of pain, make it stress-resistant, keep him awake for a long time, increase his physical and psychological capacity, allowing him to wear a chip. The Chinese bionic soldier has begun testing. The United States and some countries are forcing telecommunications and mobile phone producers to drive Chinese companies out of their country on the grounds that they can harm their country. Countries such as the United States, Britain, Russia, Singapore, the People's Republic of China and Poland form a cyber defence force, including space. I'm going to stop here because the time I've got to bring this up in detail, and Mr. President hasn't extended his time. I'm saying that all of these issues should be assessed by the Secretary General of the National Security Board under the National Security Policy Document, that the Undersecretary of MIT should do research on them, and that the Defense Industry Department should establish preparations, infrastructure to support them. I mean, today's gone beyond the classic struggle, I'm saying that we have to follow the world very closely and pass through the classic methods ahead of our time to Turkey; I'm offering respects.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0158par0679	Thank you, thank you. Mr. Mevlüt Karakaya is next in line. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0159par0683	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the central income budget of 2021. I pray that the budget of the year 2021 will bring blessings and beauty to our great state and to the great Turkish nation. Dear friends, the budget is actually a two-feet scale. Budgeting is the whole of precognitive activities based on the reasonable and logical balancing of these two shrouds. The state must pay expenses to fulfill its duties, its expected functions. Therefore, expenses or expenses are first offered in the budget. Actually, it's going to go away and spend on different things as a concept, but I'm not going to dwell on those differences right now. When we're budgeting, we first place expenses or expenses on a scale, and we do it based on a certain system. We categorize, group the costs according to a specific purpose and goal, simultaneously, its species, its function, its economic class, its schedule, we put them in a shroud of scales. We'll call it the expense budget. There is no theoretical limit to expenses or expenses, so you can fill this shroud as much as you want. There is old age here based on the theory of the infinity of needs. The main thing in budgeting is to remove this shroud from its ground, filled with expenses and expenses, and bring it to balance. To do that, you have to put something on the other side of the scale. That's what we call this scale. The demands and demands that we lawmakers make for different parts of society are often focused on the expense and expense of the scale. We say it's the work of governments to fill and balance the scales, but it's not so easy. Here comes the theory of lack of resources. As I've just said, economic conditions, economic cycles on the income side make it feel more when the scales go away and there's old age on the spending side. It's a simple representation of the budget and budgeting mechanism I've been talking about so far. If we take a look at the central management budget of 2021 as part of this description, we put $1 trillion 346 billion on one side of the scale and $1 trillion 101 billion on the other side of the scale, and that's $245 billion on the income side. This is also expressed as a budget deficit, and the source of this is debt. The connection and relations between the shrouds, and the impacts of spending on revenues, revenues and expenditures, when issues such as their timing, cash flow, their relationship to production and sharing policies, become complicated, of course, when they engage in issues such as the sensitivity to economic cycles. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this mechanism is known to us all. My goal was to make my point easier. Now, let's try to expand the 2021 income budget a little bit. The size of our revenue budget, as I've just said, is $1 trillion 101 billion. The GDP we're targeting for 2021 is $5.6 trillion. What does that mean? This means that by offering the budget law, we're authorising all of the economies -- the public, the companies, the household -- let's say, national income -- to add up to 19.5 per cent of the national income, or 1.1 trillion per cent of the budget, and to put it on the income of the budget. One of the most important areas of discussion in budget talks is here. So, if you will, here comes the calf's tail. First of all, how much of the national income do we add up? That's important because that's where we determine how much we're going to touch the vault and the pouch of economic units globally. In the past years, if we look at these rates, it's about 22 to 23 percent. Conjuncturally, these rates have occurred at much higher levels. The last time we look at 2019, we see that this is going to be 20.3 percent, and this is going to be about 2020. In 2021 -- I just said -- 19.5%. The higher the rate, the higher the revenues, the lower the budget deficit. But we also have to say that it is a positive situation in the income budget that this level has been held behind the previous years, especially in the years of the PKK, DEAS and recent years, when we take into account the attacks on our economy through currency and interest under the leadership of global forces. The negative side of this positive situation, of course, is a higher budget deficit. Dear friends, on this occasion -- our friends have just expressed on behalf of our group from this bench -- I would like to say that I condemn the decision that the United States has made on economic sanctions. You know, the U.S. made such a decision after Operation Peace of Cyprus 1974, but this embargo app, you know, created the foundations of our national defence industry, and we came to a level of envy all over the world today. For him, it is not a wound, but a wound that does not kill will always strengthen it; and no one will be able to open it, with the will of God. When we look at the budget side, it's the second important leg or side of the revenue budget, whose safe, whose purse, what name, how much and how we're going to touch it. This leads us to the resources of the revenue budget. When we look at these resources, we see two pens in the income budget -- in the general budget -- one is taxes, and the other is tax-free income. Of course, it's the real thing, and I want to say it's all about taxes. When we look at the 2021 revenue budget offer, we see that the revenue of $1.1 trillion will be covered by taxes of 922.7 billion euros, which is about 84 per cent of the total income. The remaining 14 per cent are made up of tax-free incomes, capital revenues, fines, and other than that, some are made up of private budgetary administrations and regulatory institutions. We all know that the basic basis for good and healthy budget revenues should be taxes. I must say, in advanced economies, budget revenues are made up of taxes at higher levels than we are. But we also have to add that tax revenues are sensitive to economic cycles, which is of particular importance to budget performance in all countries' economies. In general, economic cycles do not affect all tax sources at the same rate. Dear friends, our basic problems with budget performance are a subject that we all express, again, with our tax system deficits and setbacks at the beginning. Problems in our tax system must be dealt with in a binary structure as a result. First of all, undeclared incomes, tax evasions. There is a need for comprehensive and effective work. Instead of paying new taxes at the point of increasing budget revenues, it is our wish that the fight against the informal economy be based. The second is taxes that are not paid, although they are declared. In recent years, the scissors between the amount of tax and the amount of tax collected have been opened more and more. It is said that the rate of collection has reached 55 per cent as of May -- I don't know the latest situation at the moment -- but this means that it will receive an important tax collection. It's a common way to make amends for this situation, to restructure public debt. In our view, the solution is reforming Law 6183 to facilitate tax collection, such as tardiness interest, delay increase, and interest policy that creates a burden in payment. In connection with the issue, I would also like to convey the satisfaction of the arrangements for the construction of tax and debt from the SGK during 2020, and for measures and incentives related to the pandemic period. Again, I'd like to say that there is an intense demand and demand to be made, including a difficult time in the business world because of its pandemic, a new hug with the tax administration and a fresh access to public treasure, and an adjustment to the public treasury. In terms of income and institutional tax, a structural change in taxation has become necessary. In the income tax, the unitary structure of the tax must be re-examined and decide whether or not unitary taxation will continue. If the income tax is asked to continue unitary taxation, the conditions of unitary taxation must be redefined. It is also important to determine profits in the tax of institutions. For this reason, the definition of capital companies' income must be restored by giving up the procedure and its fundamentals to determine commercial gains in the Taxes Act. A tax structure for developing digital economies and e-commerce needs to be created; exemptions and exceptions must be narrowed down, and tax rates should be reduced accordingly. Dear friends, of course there are a lot of problems with this, and we're bringing them up all the time, and we're going to keep bringing them up. I hereby express once again the blessing of the 2021 budget to the great Turkish nation, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0160par0698	It's Mr. Mustafa Baki Ersoy's turn. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0161par0701	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party for Action on the budget of the President's Strategy and Budget President in 2021. I hereby salute your grand delegation and all members of the great Turkish nation who follow us at the beginning of their screens. The presidential government system, which is a direct means for political and social reconciliation, to direct the national will, and to be the meeting point of sacred values, will continue to claim the present and build the future of the great Turkish nation. Because the main backbone of this system is the strong state, strong governance, democratic stability. On this occasion, I'd like to thank everyone who has worked so hard to prepare our budget for the 2021 year, which is the third budget of the presidential government system. The year 2020 has once again shown us that the presidential government system, with its rapid decision-making mechanisms, has broken down the games aimed at Turkey one by one, has eliminated the accounts made over the Turkish nation. The final example of this is the decision of the United States of America to act in helpless struggles. I hereby condemn the United States of America's efforts to blockade our defence industry by order of S-400 sanctions, and I would like to say once again that we will not give up our commitment to our national interests and defence industry. Dear lawmakers, we care deeply about the presidential government system. Because every national step that is taken is disturbing those who hold a grudge against Turk, every national stance that is shown is taking down those who are hostile to the Republic of Turkey, and every will declared to protect the interests of the Turkish nation is draining the dam of humiliation. We also see that at a time when we are in a global political and economic restructuring process due to the outbreak of Covid-19 that has taken over the world, the budget offer of 2021 is being fed by the speed and stability of the system and aims to further strengthen the path of the Turkish economy. At such a delicate time when the world's balances have changed, it will not be denied that the government system is the source of the strong response to our country's economic attacks, oppression and impositions outside of global causes. Despite all their advantages, we are also following the example of those who are trying to discredit the presidential government system, who are trying to disrupt the Turkish nation's struggle with its state. The answer, no doubt, comes from Syria, Libya, Iraq, Cyprus, the Caucasus, the eastern Mediterranean, the Aegean, and the Black Sea. The Turkish people are determined to keep that sound. The Turkish nation is aware that it is the flag, the state, the country and the nation that stands to gain by the struggle, and that it is the national honor and self-respect of the protected. That's why this nation is behind the presidential government system that's become its own voice. Dear lawmakers have been fighting blood-sucking terrorist organizations for decades, but it is clear that in recent years, terrorist organisations have turned their target union back into a unit of action. The terrorist groups acting as if they had been pushed by a button just after the July 15 coup attempt have been confirmed and proved repeatedly. In such a fool, the fact that our security forces have a battle that impresses their governments gives us pride and hope. In the north of Syria, a dagger in the bosom of betrayal, a terrorist state in Karabakh, a terrorist state in northern Iraq, and a terror in the presence of the invader Armenia, our eyes in the East Mediterranean, our hope in the Black Sea, and in the Aegean, I send my best regards to our proud security forces, all of whom I entrust to God separately. Hopefully, one day the Turkish Union will be formed. And I hereby salute God to the Turk, and to the Turan hands. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Also, I'd like to return another commendation to your address. The success of the Turkish defence industry in recent years is admirable. Our domestic and national weapons are not the product of a result, but have become the weapon that determines the outcome around the world. This pride belongs to all of us, this honor belongs to the great Turkish nation. As Kayseri MP, I'd like to underline that there is a defence industry infrastructure in Kayseri Province at this point. I'd like to say once again that we're asking for investments in the field of defence industry to be done in our city with the support and encouragement of our government. Precious lawmakers, judging our country's human and economic assets, the development of financial stability, the improvement of domestic savings, the development of competitive infrastructure, the protection of environment, the rational use and management of natural resources, the reduction of urbanization, disaster risks, regional development differences, and the development of rural development is of great importance to our future in areas that have a direct impact on the well-being of the community. And I'd like to take this opportunity to thank you for all the investments made in Turkey and my constituency, Kayseri. With investments in our Kayseri, there are some unfinished projects. It is important for our Kayseri-Sivas Road, the Bünyan Road, which we believe should be the priority of completion, to provide internet service to our neighborhoods without Internet infrastructure and small households, to build an additional building capacity of 150 beds to Cameli State Hospital, Johnite State Hospital, Bünyan State Hospital, Sariz County Entegre Hospital to be paid for construction. Although we have been given a date for 2022 in the province of Sarıoğlan for natural gas supply, the start of natural gas supplies in our districts of Pınarbaş, Akkış and Felahiye, Özvatan and Sarız is a priority. Precious lawmakers, the President of Strategy and Budget, the Ministry of Development after 2018 Turkey's general elections, and the Ministry of Finance's Budget General Directorate have been merged into the presidency, and the presidency has been activated as the government system has been implemented. The presidency aims to quickly and effectively implement and monitor the policy framework created by decisions made by the President, reaching goals focused on growth and development in the economy. In this framework, the drafting of basic policy documents, the drafting and implementation of the central management budget is carried out. The development of sectoral and thematic policies and strategies also fulfils the duties and responsibilities for the allocation of public resources in this direction, the implementation of work on public staff employment, the enforcement of the Islamic Co-operation Agency's Economics and Business Co-operation Permanent Committee services and the implementation of international development co-operation co-operation operations. Once again, we look at the government's operating programme, and we see that despite the difficult global and regional economic and political conditions that surround our country, terrorism surrounding us, and July 15th treasonous coup attempt, structural reforms and policies in particular protect the economic stability and confidence environment in our country, and the process of growth and development is stable. Of course, it's important to turn the crisis into opportunity when world economies and countries' socioeconomic living conditions are changing. It is also important for our future to be self-sufficient and then to be able to help the friendly countries. We're very pleased that our 2021 budget has come across as an international budget. And I hereby thank Mr. Fuat Oktay, our Vice President, who considers the budget proposal for the budget of the budget of the strategy budget, and with that feeling and thoughts, I call upon the Lord God to bless our budget of 2021, and salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0162par0716	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0163par0717	I have a voice request.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0162par0718	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0163par0719	Mr. President, the criticism of the speaker, Hidayet Vahaboglu, was the help of the Crusaders and continued. Our deputy, Huda Kaya, who spoke about the religious budget, has made a direct assault on him. We want to tell him about the bullying.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0164par0720	He didn't say anything like that.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0163par0721	I took notes.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0164par0722	No, you did.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0165par0723	Mr. President, my name has been mixed up.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0163par0724	Oh, I'm confused, the one before you...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0166par0725	It's not just the name, so...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0163par0726	Yaşar Yıldırım... wait a minute... Are you Mr. Guidet? I'm sorry.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0166par0728	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0167par0729	Mr. Yasar told me.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0163par0730	So Mr. Yasar told him.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0168par0731	Here you go, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Beştaş, sit down and I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0163par0733	No, I don't understand. He didn't say the sentence.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0169par0734	No, you misunderstood his speech, I'll explain.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0168par0735	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0169par0736	Mr. President, our speaker, Mr. Yasar, has expressed his views on Yıldırım Religion. No one has to agree with that. Thus, it is not as if he had already given an answer to the HDP's speaker, nor was there any bullying involved. This is usually an argument. On behalf of the National Movement Party, our friend has given his opinion. If we're going to express our own views on all the talks in this General Assembly, I swear -- 24 hours a day, but -- two hundred and forty hours is not enough.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0168par0737	Right.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0169par0738	That's why our speaker...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0170par0739	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0169par0740	There is no bullying involved.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0171par0741	Mr. Beştaş, I promise you your position. Here, state your point, and we'll continue our agenda.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0172par0743	Mr. President, if I wanted to speak to myself, I'd like to speak to our preacher.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0171par0744	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0172par0745	Thank you. Mr. President, I listened to Mr. Akçay. As a result, our disciple gave a speech that criticised the Diet and offered suggestions. The name didn't come up, I didn't say that, but he said that I took notes, so I'd trust my ear, if you'd like to look at the transcripts: the review of the dialogue is for the Crusaders. He added the concept of domestic collaborators. So instead of wasting time on this, we'd like two minutes of your word.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0171par0747	I'll give you my word on that. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0173par0751	Thank you, Mr. President. The speaker spoke of the indisputableness of the Dianetin and the Red. Neither religion nor any government institution is indisputable. Institutions are not divine institutions; they are one of the institutions of the 60-year secular system. But the Messengers were warned. In that sense, if wrong is done, there will always be a right to criticize. But when the Messengers disputed with each other, they disputed with the religious sects who had made a covenant with God. I want this taken into consideration. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0174par0754	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0175par0755	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0174par0756	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0175par0757	I'll get out of my seat, just a minute...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0174par0758	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0175par0760	The words of Mr. Yasar Yıldırım, our speaker, are that the Dianet is one of the basic institutions of Turkey, so that institutions should not be worn out. Otherwise, there is no non-negotiable institution in Turkey, but the lack of weariness of institutions is a separate bet, which is something we're concerned about. Religion is an important institution that represents all of us as a nation, has important services, and has historical properties; it is not discussed, it is not worn down. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0174par0762	Okay.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0176par0763	Mr. President, very short, very short...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0174par0764	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0176par0765	It's too short...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0174par0766	You've used your proper statements, so let's not go on.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0176par0767	Let's get him on record. Mr. President, no criticism of ours is intended to wear down any institution. On the contrary, with our criticism, we constructively argue that those institutions should return to their true duties. Otherwise, we're not here to wear it down, we're heretics.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0174par0769	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş. 1) presidential Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Central Management Final Account for the presidency 2019 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2021 Central Management Budget 2) National Intelligence Agency Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2021 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board Secretary General 2019 Central Management Terms C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget of 2021 2) The Central Management Final Account for the President of Religious Affairs 2019 1) President of State Archives 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Archives Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget of 2021 2) Central Management Final Account for the Executive Board of National Palaces 2019 1) Strategy and Budget President 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Communication Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account THE PRESIDENT OF THE SURVIVATION [[Continue]] 1) Defence Industry Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Defence Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 Mr. Tamer Akkal at the end. Here you are, Mr. Tamer Akkal.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0177par0807	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, the great Turkish nation, I salute you with respect and love. I'd like to welcome our Vice President Fuat Oktay. I'm here today to address you on behalf of myself on the eighth round of the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. Of course, in this short period of time, I'm unable to describe the investments and actions of the EC PARTY governments, but it's only a brief reminder of where national and domestic capital has left its tracks over the past five years. As the thousands of projects of RDs were completed, our active drones and SIHAs not only destroyed the dens of traitors within our borders, Syria, Libya, and the latest, the Azerbaijan army had raised our chests in the fight to rid the Turkish world of the Armenian invasion. As we are proud of the actions of our powerful army, our defence industry, I regret to say that the opposition parties in Turkey have lost their minds, enough to claim that Turkey has sent foreign warriors to Karabağ. People's Party of the Republic, there is no power to sell or buy the Turkish Armed Forces, which have signed 2,200 years of history and countless victories in the process. Let's get down to brass tacks! Dear MPs, Republican People's Party Ünal Aviküçü, who have called for democracy from the new administration of the United States and complained about our country, have once again demonstrated how far away they are from understanding and all principles of the Republic and how far away they are from their party, the founder of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. The Republican People's Party and its partners, who oppose every domestic and national investment, are working hard to slander and defame those who put stone upon stone in our country with their tragic political existence that opposes their own country. I remind you, the main duty of opposition is not to criticize everything that power does, but to say that we do better, is to offer solutions. But as their president said, this is not happening by sitting at the Republican People's Party headquarters.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0178par0811	You're a deputy because of us!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0179par0812	Speak, speak!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0177par0813	I'll answer him, I'll answer him.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0179par0814	You went on a transfer, transfer!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0177par0815	We regret to see that the Republican People's Party, founded by the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, has made it clear on the screens that lies are the headquarters of fiction as well as the most recent presidential candidates, Mr. Muharrem, said there is a gang inside.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0180par0817	You've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0177par0818	To whom does a President-General who sees rightfully what bandits did to our ship that brought help to Libya serve with lies and false information?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0181par0819	Who do you serve?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0177par0820	Following this statement by Kılıçdaroğlu, the Greek newspaper made the following headline of the Greek City Times the following day...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0181par0821	You're our...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0182par0822	You don't have a chance to be a deputy in Manisa. You don't stand a chance.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0177par0823	Can I have your attention, please? In his statement, Turkish opposition said that the Greek commander was right to search the ship bound for Libya. Were you happy to see his writing? It's a shame. It's a shame.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0183par0826	Woe to you!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0184par0827	Woe to you! Are you happy to be a deputy with CHP votes?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0177par0828	If you look at all of the foreign media, especially the Greek media, you can see who these lies work for.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0185par0829	Were you happy when you took the mazbata?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0184par0830	Were you happy when you took the money?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0177par0831	Even in national matters, it is a contradiction that a mindset that defames its country is seeking to rule Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0185par0832	There's money every three months.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0184par0833	What's the matter, your debts or your debts?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0177par0834	The president of the Republican People's Party said he would attack us on a TV show he attended? There's no way to understand how a sane person can remember that, there's no such thing. He can't say that he's the leader of the main opposition party. It's not opposition, it's officially exonerating murderers with guns, without honor, without degenerates. But don't worry, the honorable army of the Republic of Turkey continues to beat them all and lay their dead. They end up inside, they can't breathe; they end up out there, and they end up in politics. Everyone will pay the price for defying Turkey, for betraying it. (EC PARTY) We say: "Do not associate with the speakers of the PKK; you are doing it, so be honest, and do not deceive your constituent.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0186par0836	You be honest, you!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0184par0837	Be honest, he sold his choice for money. They call you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0177par0838	But they can't do that either.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0184par0839	Look, I'm getting a message from the Manisa people who sold it for money. They say it's a voter.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0177par0840	Why? Because they're scared. Fear not, my lords, fear not. Get out, you are the spokesman for the PKK...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0187par0841	Thank you, Mr. Tamer.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0184par0842	Give me five more minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0177par0843	Mr. President, I'll wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0187par0844	I'm not making any promises, I haven't given them to anyone. Why should I give it to you?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0177par0845	I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0188par0847	Be honest, don't fool your voter!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0187par0848	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0189par0851	Well, it's not worth answering, but it's a really remarkable thing to say, so I'm going to mention it. Show respect for your choice, he says. We have nothing to say to a person who, with the support of the Republican People's Party, becomes a member of the PARTI, and then talks where he goes without blush, God will reform him.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0190par0853	Can I answer that? There's bullying.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0187par0854	Wait a minute... Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0191par0857	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, our MP has just expressed his own opinion, and Mr. Kilicdaroglu has asked the right questions in his own words, acting in his public statements. There's nothing to go on, so you have to give the answer to the public in a satisfactory way. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0192par0860	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0193par0861	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit02spe0192par0862	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0192par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. 1) presidential Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Central Management Final Account for the presidency 2019 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2021 Central Management Budget 2) National Intelligence Agency Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2021 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board Secretary General 2019 Central Management Terms C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget of 2021 2) The Central Management Final Account for the President of Religious Affairs 2019 1) President of State Archives 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Archives Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget of 2021 2) Central Management Final Account for the Executive Board of National Palaces 2019 1) Strategy and Budget President 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Communication Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account THE PRESIDENT OF THE SURVIVATION [[Continue]] 1) Defence Industry Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Defence Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 The commission is in place. In turn, it belongs to the executive. Yes, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0194par0041	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, first of all, I salute you all. Today we present the budgets of 2021 of the presidential and presidential and related institutions and institutions and final accounts of the year 2019 to the appreciation of our Veteran Assembly. I thank our lawmakers, who have been expressing their thoughts during the day and contributing to constructive criticism, for their views on the budgets, precise accounts, activities and projects of the presidential and presidential and relevant institutions and institutions. I thank the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, especially the political parties who signed the decision to sanction the United States of America, condemning it with a joint statement signed by four political parties. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] At the beginning of my words, I strongly condemn the wrongful decision of the United States of America. Defence Industry Chairman İsmail Demir, Vice President Faruk Yigit; Director of Air Defense and Space Department Serhat Gençoglu and Group Director Mustafa Alper Deniz; we are proud of you. On behalf of our nation and our government, we are with you, we are with you, we are with you, we are with all of our friends, we are with our institutions, we are with you, we are with you, we are with you, we are with you, we are with you, we are with you, we are with all of our friends who work in the Defense Industries and in relevant units. Once again, I thank you from the bottom of my heart. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, our country has been moving in great and confident steps towards the more prosperous tomorrows, the more powerful Turkey ideal for 18 years. This journey, led by our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is a major Turkish journey that cuts its own belly when necessary, pays the price, but never compromises in implementing its independent policies. Is it possible that a parliamentary system, an economy, and even the defence of the country, could carry out the success we've achieved in 18 years of political strife, uncertainty, instability? Especially Mr. Oztrak, I've heard your reviews, and you're being completely baselessly critical. You remember well, in fact, during all the parliamentary days... everyone remembers very well, and we remember well. But no one really wants to remember those days. We don't understand if we don't want a stable Turkey. I'd like to ask you today if we could overcome the difficulties we've been able to overcome with the uncertain coalition governments, the shackles of military and bureaucratic custody? No way, it was insurmountable.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0195par0051	What problem did you overcome?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0194par0052	Could we have come to this day with a Turkey that lost its balance in the slightest shake, in the slightest manipulation, trying to lure the forces outside us into the traps of the outside? We could never have come. I'm talking about the world's envy of Turkey, the world's envy of Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0195par0054	Is that a letter in your hand?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0194par0055	Anyone who puts his hand on his conscience acknowledges that under the leadership of our President, a world leader with power, experience, and weight, Turkey has become a regional power and has taken a serious course towards becoming a global power. Whether you want it or not, you'll accept it one day. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The presidential government system is a system first accepted by the High Assembly, then by the will and will of our people.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0196par0058	Freaky system.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0194par0059	It's based on the will and judgment of our Parliament and our nation, not on anyone. The presidential government system is a system based on separation of forces and is democratic. When you still don't show up today, where are these ministers? Keep ignoring the people's decision, the House's decision, it won't change anything.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0197par0061	He calls the chosen ones arrogant, and everyone shuts up. What kind of a statement is that?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0194par0062	No balance or control, you say. We're here to answer for every penny spent in front of our great Parliament for days as executives, we're making them by the rules, we're explaining them. We're paying for it. (CHP rows) What is this, not a balance and control mechanism? In the parliamentary system, was it different, my friends?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0198par0063	There's no one left to supervise you, no one to supervise you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0194par0064	Can you tell me what's different about this than before the system change? Is the will of the executive and the will of the living controlled by independent courts? Controlled. (CHP rows) Are the executive decisions cancelled by the administration courts or the State Department? It's available, it's available. Are public officials who exploit their duties being tried in the court of law? Are the laws being annulled by the Constitutional Court when it is found against the Constitution? Yeah.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0199par0065	What are the lower courts doing?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0194par0066	Don't you ever read the official newspaper about it? Look, it's just this morning, a law was revoked by the Constitutional Court again.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0200par0067	Who knows the Supreme Court?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0201par0068	The lower court won't recognize him either.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0194par0069	Normal, it can be done because the state of the Republic of Turkey and its system are a democratic system and is also a state of law.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0200par0071	By disobeying the Constitutional Court's rulings, he becomes a state of law?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0194par0072	In fact, let me also say that the Constitution also gives you the authority to dissociatively execute our great Assembly, which is you, when necessary.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0202par0073	How many signatures?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0203par0074	What, you were waiting with two signatures?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0194par0075	There is no problem of a regime in our country, friends, there is no problem of a regime.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0204par0077	If you come to power, you will.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0194par0078	It has to do with the presidential system -- not the regime -- the organs that will carry out the executive mission -- there's no change in the regime. It's just a change in the operating system, organs, institutions.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0205par0079	Make a fair choice, then.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0206par0080	You're getting in a 10-million-dollar car!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0194par0081	Since its establishment, our regime has been based on the principles of democratic, secular and social law, and so is today.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0207par0082	Why were the Istanbul elections repeated, Mr. Vice President? If there was law...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0208par0083	According to the SEC's decision.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0194par0084	If there's a regime problem, the opposition can come to the attention of the dark Constitution drafts that you have secretly drawn up from our nation behind closed doors. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Otherwise, it has nothing to do with us.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0209par0085	You can't come from the palace and call us arrogant. You can't tune anyone up here. You have no right to adjust the chosen ones. Go and speak of your arrogance in the palace.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0194par0086	The presidential government system has also made stabilisation of the administration and preventing and preventing the country from re-entering its much-lost coalitions.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0210par0088	People are burning themselves at the Capitol gate.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0194par0089	I mean, if that's what you can't stomach, what should I do, what should we do? It is the opposition that is driven from place to place, not the land, not the state, not even the opposition of the people.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0211par0091	You're not the opposition. You can't adjust us.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0194par0092	Don't question the country, don't question the state, don't question yourself.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0212par0093	Is there a state left? Listen to me!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0213par0095	You come from the so-called palace of 83 million.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0214par0096	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are far from detecting the country's threats and challenges.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0215par0097	You're the threat, you are.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0213par0098	You're short-sighted, you've got to talk.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0214par0099	We've been listening, so we've been listening for weeks, and we've been listening all day.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0216par0100	Listen to this.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0213par0101	Vanity flows, vanity.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0217par0102	We've heard too many stories.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0216par0103	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0217par0104	We'll listen.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0218par0105	July 15th is a treacherous enterprise far beyond any terrorist attempt. It's not just a treasonous coup attempt, it's a long shot.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0219par0106	You raised those traitors.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0220par0107	Just a minute, Mr. President. Dear friends, I don't think it's appropriate for you to make small talk in front of the Group Vice Presidents. The Deputy Directors of the Group will give you the answer, be patient. Dear lawmakers, your speech to the other side is not right. Here you go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0221par0110	July 15th... the weapons entrusted to the nation have been pointed at the nation by a terrorist organization. This is the first time in our history, and in order for it to be the last, there is still an extraordinary necessity for fighting in the way the Constitution and law dictated and allowed. The time that you say July 20th and after, that's the time that the struggle began, is much more intense than when it began after July 15th; why do you feel uncomfortable?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0222par0112	Who bought those bands? Just tell me who delivered the government to them.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0221par0113	All laws passed at that time, all decrees of law issued at that time, have been submitted to you, to our great Assembly, and to those deemed acceptable to you. All the powers used were also carried out by the authorities and the procedures envisioned in the Constitution. Today, the executive mission and its authority are used by the President, who was elected and based on the will of the nation, as it was found in the Constitution. In our country, the concept of monomania is not the subject of today, but of the one-party period, the chief period of the 1940s, not today. If you want to refresh your memory, you can go to those days. The presidency is not the only man in our government system...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0223par0115	You talk about the budget, the budget. You're getting in a 10-million-dollar car. You're in a 10 million car, 10 million. Open up, people, open up!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0221par0116	...there are signs, there are participating democracies, there are fast and efficient decision-making mechanisms, and we apply them one by one.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0223par0117	Return the $10 million car, return it.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0221par0118	It's your problem if you can't do it yourself, not ours.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0223par0120	Return your car, return your car, return your car.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0221par0121	The presidency is not the only man in the government system -- I repeat -- there is consultation, there is participating democracy.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0224par0122	Return your car.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0223par0123	Return your car, your car. If you've got a little conscience, give me that car.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0224par0124	If you have a little conscience, return the car.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0223par0125	10 million, 10 million in that car. Pity! You're taxing this poor wretch.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0225par0126	Those one-man periods -- I've just expressed them -- national chefs, single-party periods and guided democracy are only available in your genetic code.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0224par0128	Return your car.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0225par0129	And it's in the dark pages of history that will never come back.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0226par0131	Too bad, too bad! People are hungry, hungry! People are hungry! You're getting in a 10-million-dollar car.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0225par0132	So stop longing for those days and those systems, and go back to today and look to the future.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0226par0133	You tell me about your $10 million car, $10 million.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0227par0134	Learn respect, man, respect.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0225par0135	Our president is elected directly by the nation, our nation has chosen, and sovereignty belongs to the nation unconditionally.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0226par0137	Tell me about your car, your car!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0228par0138	Tell me about your $10 million car!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0225par0139	From the year 2020, when we realized the 100th anniversary of our Veteran Assembly, we are determined to reach the 100th anniversary of our republic in a more advanced way in every area. Our presidential budget is more prosperous...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0226par0140	That car won't get you through the line bridge.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0225par0141	Don't worry, our vehicles are much stronger than yours. Don't worry about what kind of tools I'm about to enter. You just did, so you're motivated by something else.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0229par0142	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0225par0143	You're motivated by something else. You've made it clear. We're not motivating anyone to run for president or anything, so don't worry.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0230par0144	You've ruined the poor.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0225par0145	You've expressed yourself as being weak and so are our vehicles, and everything is fine.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0231par0146	You starve people, you starve people.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0230par0147	They're hungry, they're hungry!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0225par0148	We're a power that trusts ourselves to the fullest. And we're also an alliance that's confident to the end -- clearly -- everything.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0232par0150	Go out on the street, see what's on the street.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0233par0151	Don't be jealous, don't be jealous.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0225par0152	Our presidential budget is more prosperous in this direction than our vision of Turkey...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0232par0153	Come on, let's go out together.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0233par0154	Don't be jealous.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0225par0155	...and put it in the bone...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0234par0156	Wait a minute, wait a minute... Congressmans, now, if you shout a little louder, there's gonna be movement, fighting.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0235par0158	There they are, yelling at the band, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0234par0159	If you're going to fight...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0236par0160	They won't let it go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0234par0161	Look, last time I told you, I'm going to read the names of those who shout, and I'm going to invite them out, and whoever yells at whomever they come out, they're going to yell at each other.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0237par0162	Warn them.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0234par0163	The Group Vice Presidents are our strong friends who can defend their own parties, and I say so, and they follow very carefully; be patient.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0238par0164	Didn't these AKP people do the same as our president?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0234par0165	Give your greetings to Niğde. You be patient, my beautiful brother. Yes, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0167	Our presidential budget has been prepared to transform our vision of a more prosperous Turkey into flesh and to turn our goals into actual consequences. We have prepared our budget directly to ensure that our president, elected by our nation's free will, works in harmony with the presidential, institutions, policy boards, offices and all other relevant units, and, again, all of this. We're working in harmony today, so don't worry. The presidential budget also provides the basis for good governance practices in the public that we have brought to our state by the presidential government system.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0240par0169	Half the public is run by power of attorney, half by proxy. When we ask, there's a public power of attorney.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0170	So I'm going to have to say something when I say the government system of the presidency. You've always said in criticism that 27 hours after a minister resigns, that's actually the direct expression of your trust in the Presidential government system, nothing more.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0241par0172	Even the dollar's down, dollar's down!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0242par0173	Ministerless, the dollar's down.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0174	So, in fact, you're expecting it because you know that the presidential government system is in dynamism and power to solve all of this in a day's time.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0242par0175	How did the exchange fall when the minister resigned?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0243par0176	He's afraid to do the news, media.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0177	So in the presidential government system, the ministries can change, the president has the authority of the nation, so all decisions are made in 24 hours, 24 hours.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0242par0178	The exchange rate fell while the minister was away.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0179	Stability saw nothing in any way...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0244par0180	The minister's gone and the exchange has dropped 10%, so if the President resigns, he'll drop 50%.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0181	...and continued with all her determination. I mean, look at the parliamentary system from months of uncertainty...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0245par0182	Governments that can't be built.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0183	...from governments that can't be established, from undecided ministries, you now expect that everything be resolved within a day, and you're right, that's what the presidential government system is for, and it's done.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0246par0185	Berat Bey says: "The mark of the horse is mixed with the mark of the dog. Tell me about it.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0186	It is the budget of our presidency, which implements many structural changes, reform, action and change based on presidential decrees and decisions. It's the budget of our presidency, including the Office of Digital Transformation and the President of Communication, which has increased public services to the digital world day after day and strengthened the brand value of our country in digital spaces. The Presidential budget; the Defence Industry Executive Committee, the Co-ordinating Board for Investment Environment, the Council for Anti-Addictive Information Systems, the Council of Geographical Information Systems, the Minimation of Bureaucracy and Digital Turkey Co-ordination Meetings are again a budget based and focused on co-ordinating our priorities. It is also part of the budget of our state archives presidency, which is the relics of our history, the head of the National Government of Palaces, which sustains our cultural and architectural works, and the state archives that transfer our long-standing archive into the future. From the guarantees of our honorable and independent policies in the field, the National Intelligence Agency is still within our budget for the Defense Industry Presidency, which, with each project, gives power to our national technology move, and no sanctions can stop its pace. The president's budget for the presidency, including the president of the Dianet Affairs, the President of Strategy and Budget, the Board of Health and Food Policys, is entirely in the hands of our beloved nation and has been prepared in consideration of the expectations and sensitivities of every part of our community. Every penny left for the presidential budget so far has been used for the interests of our nation -- trying to be explained in different ways, even if the perception is being created -- will continue to be like this. Through the resources and opportunities provided by this budget, we will continue to work in harmony with the legislative and judicial bodies to maintain our place in the hearts of our nation and to consolidate our unity. Mr. President, again assessments have been made regarding the increase in the presidential budget, which includes the presidential central units, as well as the seven presidencys, one secretary general, four offices and nine policy boards. At this point, it is also essential that the presidency becomes the center of running the presidency, as we switch to the government system. Also, 51 per cent of the presidency's budget is owned by newly established units, and there are pens transferred to relevant institutions through funding transfer. $1.5 billion of the presidential budget is earmarked for support and protection services used by the Ministry of Interior and National Defence -- which is not related to the spending of the presidency -- 175m in emergency support costs, and 384m in the Presidential Offices budget. Peace support costs are expected to increase by 50 per cent and by 35 per cent in transfers to the household. Why are we raising the president's budget by 50 percent, especially the fund to support peace? Our hero Mehmetchik is in a land of 780,000 square kilometers, but beyond that, we increase peace and trust from Libya to Syria, from Bosnia and Herzegovina to Kosovo. We raise our flag, neither fear nor grief, to hope for the oppressed and the victims of the world. (AK PARTY) This is the responsibility of our history. All over the world, there are oppressed who welcome our flag and our Mehmet-chik. Those who do not understand why we are in Libya, Somalia, Bosnia, Syria cannot understand why we have increased this budget. Every penny we spend on peace support and protection services is a move to nullify the efforts of those who try to surround Turkey from these areas. From now on, we'll do what's necessary in this area. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, again, one of the important expense markers in our budget belongs to the presidential office. Again, reviews came, parallel structures with the ministry. I'm just here -- if you'll excuse me -- let me tell you a little bit about what one of our offices has done. Maybe I can be a little more specific about how these offices contribute to our daily lives, and maybe it'll be a little easier to understand. Our Office of Digital Transformation is working on an approach beyond the age, the most efficient and efficient presentation of public services in digital environments, and the development of our technology infrastructure. It is possible to exist in the competitive economy of tomorrow, but with a dynamic understanding of governance that correctly interprets what time and conditions bring. The development of our technology infrastructure, the digital introduction of public services, the digital transformation required by the age as a whole, and the improvement of the investment environment in Turkey are also our primary goals. As of today, 5,336 public services from 700 institutions are offered via the Digital Turkey Portali, which we know as the E- State Gate. You know, the public service that we got during the Covid era, each of us got, that's the result of the work here. The Covid-19 epidemic, which affects our lives and habits, has shown us once again how important digital public services are, along with telecommunications infrastructure. Many of the procedures that our citizens need to perform through the digital Turkish Portali have played a crucial role in providing social isolation in the fight against Covid-19. Many public services, including travel permit documents, pandemic social support applications, HES code and listing, have begun to be digitally available. It has also made the lives of our citizens and each of us greatly easier to do so through digital Turkey Portali, where subscription application and dissolution procedures for many services such as electricity, water, natural gas, telephone and internet. So a lot of the transactions that you've gone to in the past and spent your hours or your days with, maybe one click now, without any documents... questions about welfare payments, pensions, short work grants, and institutional payments on PTT, such as birth aid, are now being done through e-government. Over 2 billion people have been logged into the digital Turkish portal, which is more than 51.7 million active users this year, 2 billion. To Turkey. Gov. Our work on reaching and increasing accessibility is also intense. As part of the E State No Obstruction Project, our deaf citizens have been able to interview their sign language-speaking call centre employees on video as part of the unblocked call centre again. On the other hand, I'd like to remind you once again that we deliver their passwords at home in case they're over 65 years old and have never received the e-state code before. Digital transformation is not only the transfer of public services into the electronic environment, but also the simplification of business processes, which is the result of reducing bureaucracy. In this context, we continue our work with a zero document target, reducing bureaucracy, facilitating public services. As a result of the conducted studies, when you ask for a service from public service at 3.47 in 2018, the average number of documents per public service, the public, the state, bring this, the following documents. We have now reduced about four documents to 0.17. In fact, let me remind you, because I remember we talked about this in the previous budget period: he wanted 42 thousand documents from a public citizen, and he had about 10 to 12,000 public services; it was 42,000 documents, if I remember correctly. So the average four documents mean that when you want public service, when you go to an institution, when you want four documents, if you need to get one from another public institution, the place you're going to wants four documents, and the place you're going is asking for four documents. So I'm going door to door. This is what we've been complaining about -- maybe there was a century before that -- what we call structural solutions, that's what we call them.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0247par0194	Return the car.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0248par0195	It's a shame!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0196	So now, it's down to 0.17, so it's down to under a thousand, down to about 700, and our goal is to reduce it to zero, so we're going to continue our goal to not demand any information from our citizens in the public, in the state, as a document until we reach zero. Again, the number of institutions integrated into the Portali of Digital Turkey shows how well digitalisation has been received by our citizens by the number of registered users, reaching 51, 732,000. Again, you're already asking, what have you done as governments that will continue here all day long, and then all day long? Here, I just told you what one of our offices is doing, just what we're doing under Project Digital Turkey. We're doing this. The way you live in your house, your phone, your tablet, and even those transactions that you're doing here -- we have a goal to make our friend comfortable -- we're doing them together. We have the vision of the future here, we have the digitalization, we have the artificial intelligence, we have the Cyber Vatan. We're from Turkey. Gov. We set up a mega platform like tr. We've opened a secure and fast digital door to public services. He's not satisfied with the public services we've added to the e-government, his services are still on one screen... So we don't settle for him anymore, we're running out of targets of our own. There, in the virtual world, we see a lot of you going door to door, and we see that as bureaucracy. So we're going to have to meet them at one door, which is what we call a single window.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0249par0200	What about the children without the Internet, Mr. Vice President?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0201	We're not content with the public services that we add to the e-government here, but how do we give them to the use of our citizen on one screen, and we're looking at that. In June, my first integrated service at the E State Gate was opened again, and you know it. Over 70 million have been used so far. My vehicles are able to display and pay-per-view all of the information on one screen, including insurance, punishment, examination, highway passage and debt situation for users. So we're making life easier. In the coming period, we will continue to facilitate the lives of our citizens by providing more integrated services, such as my Work Life and Housing Centre, again through digital Turkey. All of these studies have brought our country to the top of the league in the digital presentation of public services.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0250par0204	And how will people find bread?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0205	According to the U.N. E. State Development Index, published in July 2020 -- also mentioned here -- our country has risen to the 22nd ranking in the online Service Index, and the E-Citizen Index has risen to 23rd place in the 37th row, but is that enough? We say it's not enough. The year 2020, published on 23 September, was again the fourth of the 36 countries in the E-government Index Studies. (AK PARTI) We have also risen to the 26th and 13th place across this index, which is our goal, again, to be in the top 10 places in these types of indexes and to make it sustainable. Mr. President, precious lawmakers, digital transformation is not just a transformation of technology, but a cultural and organizational transformation with human and business processes at its core. The health and development of companies, therefore, depends on adapting to innovative ideas and technologies. As a result of economic benefits and social changes from automation, artificial intelligence and digital technologies, we predict an increase in employment opportunities for 3.1 million people in Turkey over the next decade.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0251par0207	Dream.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0208	If the foreseeable ability transformation takes place, the greatest competence development is expected to take place in technology competency by 63 per cent in 2030. The institute of higher education is also updating its license and grad programmes with the Future Occupational Project. With our president's vision, with projects supported by our ministry and the development and development of digital technologies in all public institutions, we will continue to implement a holistic digital transformation in human, business processes and elements of technology aimed at boosting economic and social prosperity. Mr. President, our presidential Investment Office is promoting our country's investment opportunities to the global business world and supporting investors at every stage of their investment in Turkey. In particular, the office works to bring investments in our country, which create high, high, quality, and high employment value, especially technology. The Investment Office supported investment between 2006 and 19, which amounted to $23.3 billion. These investments provided employment for some 48,000 people. The office, which allowed our country to gain $576m in 2019, led to an investment of $506.5m, despite negative conditions caused by the epidemic in 2020. As of today, the Investment Office follows a total of 173 investment projects with the potential to create about 40,000 jobs, with an investment amount of $17.6 billion. Among these investment projects are those for high sectors, such as automotive, chemistry and petrochemistry, logistics, information communication technologies and electronics. We, of course, don't separate who this investment comes from, where it comes from, we don't go to segregation, segregation, segregation in capital, we don't go to apartheid. These investments are jobs, these investments are transfers of technology, the share of the knowledge-how.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0252par0213	And you found a way to launder the black money.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0214	Any investment that will contribute to our nation will strengthen Turkey's hand, especially in the post-infected period. With further reforms in the coming period, we will be improving the investment environment.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0253par0215	That's why you don't develop trade relations with Israel.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0216	On the other hand, our Presidential Finance Office continues its efforts to ensure that our country is an important actor in global financial markets. The Financial Office is working hard to strengthen the FinTEK financial technology ecosystem in our country, with accession finances that promote assets based on the Istanbul Financial Centre Project, particularly the Istanbul Financial Centre Project. On this occasion, I would also like to clarify once again the assessments of the sale of 10 per cent of the Stock Exchange's Turkish Entity Fund to the Qatar Investment Authority. It's spoken here, it's spoken in the Plan and Budget, it's spoken elsewhere, but it's going to continue again, perhaps, but I'd like to make it clear once again. Under the leadership of our President, we are making a maximum effort to attract international investors to Turkey, and we also support Turkish investors investing abroad. We've taken steps, we've taken steps, we've done them, we've done them, we've done them, we've done them, we've done them, we've done them, we've done them, we've done them, we've done them, we've done them, we've done them, we've done them, we've done them, we've done them, we've done them, we've done them, we've done them, we've done them, we've done them, we've done them, we've done them. Our Presidential Investment Office, our Turkish Entity Fund, our Ministry of Industry and Technology, and our Co-ordination Board for Reconstruction of Investment Environment continue its efforts to attract more direct foreign investments to Turkey. It is clear that international capital investments benefit both the country that invests and the country that is invested. The recent partnership of the Qatar Investment Authority with the Stock Exchange in Istanbul is a gain for our country, and this cooperation is a collaboration that will return to our nation as a win. You don't have to be afraid of it, you don't have to look for anything else here; encourage it if you can.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0254par0219	Mr. Vice President, Turkey has been number one in the world in exporting money.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0220	Mr. Kilicdaroglu actually expressed a few things about it. And he'll have mixed up the account, which, I remember he said, and he's come here, and he's informed our nation from this stand, and he's wrongly informed us. We already know that Mr. Kilicdaroglu is an expert in miscalculations, from the USSR.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0254par0222	Tell me about the situation with the SGK right now, how much he owes!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0255par0223	He didn't get in a 10-million-dollar car like you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0224	Look, he said, I'll tell you this, then, Mr. Kilicdaroglu said, look, the profitability rate of Borsa Istanbul is 52 percent. The fund that buys with this profit rate will come out in 15 to 20 months. Don't you have any conscience? It went on and on and on and on, I remember.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0256par0225	Yeah, yeah, he's right.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0226	Right? What kind of math is that?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0256par0227	Right, right.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0228	What kind of math is that, what kind of math is that? I know you wouldn't want to understand if we told you, but I just did. I want to do this one more time for our nation, again, one more time, like in the Office of Digital Transformation.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0257par0229	Let Fettah Tamce come and tell us.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0258par0230	Listen, listen, guys.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0231	Ten per cent shares from the European Bank for Development and Development 11 months ago for $122.5 million... if you want to understand otherwise.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0257par0232	Let him tell you exactly, then, don't tell him, he was at the table.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0233	The European Bank for Development and Development has acquired a ten per cent stake for $12.5m. We didn't hear any complaints from you, or from anyone, but we're lost, we're dead, we're ruined, we're ruined. We don't remember anything like this from anyone. We've recently passed on the stock to the Qatar Investment Office for $200 million, which is exactly what we're getting, and then we're turning it over to the Qatar Investment Office for $200 million, and that's what it is. [Applause from the AK PARTY; CHP rows "Bravo! "] I find it hard to understand what it means when people who don't make a sound for the first one make a sound for the second one.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0257par0234	No, what's Tamince doing there?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0235	Are we being someone's mouthpiece?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0259par0236	Bravo! Bravo.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0257par0238	Tamince represents the government?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0239	I don't understand. Moving on, I'm continuing your math account. The percentage of the stock market is...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0257par0241	Speak of Tamineh, and speak of Taminje.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0243	Why? It didn't work out for you? It didn't work out for you? I'm already talking about the budget. [Applause from the AK PARTY; CHP rows "Bravo! "]
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0257par0244	Speak of Tamineh, and speak of Taminje.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0260par0245	Bravo! You're a great defender of Qatar. [Bravo] From the ranks of theCHP!) Their voices, applause!)
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0246	I'll tell you this year's share of the stock market for 10 per cent: 10 per cent of the stock market -- that's what they got -- that's about $10 million. The co-operation of the Qatar Investment Authority on the $2 billion rating of the company... [CAR PARTY] We'll tell you whether you don't want to or not, and our people will hear it. They'll hear how you miscalculated. They'll see how your math is zero, how you never know, our nation. Whether you shout or call, wherever you strike, we will tell you about it, not you. We will tell our people.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0261par0248	You paid 61 billion dollars for guarantees because your math is correct!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0249	Once again, I'm telling you one thing: On will be back in five or twenty months. He said, "The Qatar Investment Authority, which is based on the company value of $2 billion, is not in 15 months, but in 20 years, the profit is in today's terms."
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0262par0250	I mean, Qatar's hurt.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0251	Where's 15 months and 20 years? What kind of an account is this?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0262par0252	He's hurt, Qatar. Then why did Qatar go in?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0239par0253	Ya, you've been talking all morning, Katar, Qatar, Qatar... you've been saying that since the first day we arrived.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0263par0254	Who else was involved in the tender?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0264par0255	You fooled Qatar, too.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0265par0256	You ripped off Qatar! You also deceived Qatar.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0266par0257	We're talking about Qatar. Why did you go to Qatar? Look, I'll tell you what this is about: now that you've been condemned to the opposition for a long time, you seem to be confusing months with years. I understand that. We do not know that; you know that.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0267par0259	So you double-crossed Qatar?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0266par0260	Again, also, let me tell you, in a similar way, you've made no noise at all about the stock cycles being made to the American company NASDAQ or the European Bank of Development and Development.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0268par0261	So you've kept quiet! Wow! You've kept quiet!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0266par0262	I call upon the conscience of our nation from here, and I entrust it to our nation. We can't get you to like an investor, so you want us to come over and make the investor like it? I mean, I don't get it.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0269par0264	He was full of bread and bread. Those who said...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0270par0265	You've done it! You've done it! You've done it!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0266par0266	We'll get there, don't worry.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0271par0267	Get on the plane, get on the plane!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0266par0268	We'll get there, don't worry. Moving on, the same Qatar Investment Authority shares 10.3 percent of the London Stock Exchange, one of the world's largest stock markets.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0272par0270	How much?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0273par0271	How much did they buy it for?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0266par0272	From England to this day, we have never seen anyone come out and take the deed of the bond; no, this one has taken it, this country has taken it, this country has taken it.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0272par0273	How much did he get for it, how much?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0273par0274	Tell me how much it cost.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0266par0275	That's not what you were saying before, so what happened now? Foreign investment is a concrete indicator of trust in a country, and anyone who knows a little bit of economics knows that. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Stop being hostile to our nation's interests and interests, friends.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0274par0276	You're the enemy.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0266par0277	Stop being the enemy!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0274par0278	He's on seven flights to Cyprus!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0266par0279	Be glad for once, rejoice for once, for the good of our nation.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0275par0281	How can we be happy that you've made Tank Palette in a row?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0276par0282	How can we rejoice, our highways... you've paid 62 billion dollars in four years... to the allies! You're taking the public's money, shall we be glad?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0266par0283	Grab the end of something and say, "That's good." Let's do what more we can, and let's do it. And then we'll show the world how to do opposition and power cooperation, cooperation, and cooperation. The critics of this sale, the trust in our country, that's what's bothering you, I don't understand.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0277par0284	You're transparent, you're not transparent, you're top secret, you're doing different things. You're not transparent, you're not telling the truth. The farmer, the feeder...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0266par0285	If the country can't be trusted, why would there be an investment? I don't understand if you can't stomach the fact that the stock market is considered an international value. I mean, what would bother you here? I don't know what's bothering you here either. Everything's clear, everything's clear, everything's public.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0278par0286	It's not.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0279par0287	Tank pallet...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0266par0288	So it's not like your alliance negotiations, it's not like your Constitutional studies. (EC PARTY AND MHP APPLAUSE) We do everything very clearly. I mean, I don't know why it bothers you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0279par0289	Tank pallet, Tank pallet...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0280par0290	Open the asset fund to control.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0266par0291	Guys, if you're losing sleep over this, you're gonna lose more sleep. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Under the leadership of our President, we will sign the business forces based on the principle of winning again, and we will continue to add value to our country through direct investments.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0281par0294	▪ Win!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0266par0295	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, there's another thing you've been working on all the time.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0281par0296	You've removed the VATs!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0266par0297	Look, the Turkish Entity Fund...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0282par0298	It looks like Nasrettin Hodja's boiler, win!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0283par0299	The national lottery...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0266par0300	Yeah, the more you answer, the more you say, what am I supposed to do? Give me time, I'll sit here for days, and I'll tell you all about it.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0284par0301	Speak up!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0266par0302	But you're not gonna understand that, so you're gonna go from there to somewhere else, so what am I supposed to do? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Turkey's Entity Fund: With the modern management approach of public economic initiatives in our country...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0285par0305	They don't want to understand.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0286par0306	The AK PARK Group doesn't even listen to what you're saying, there are 50 people here.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0287par0307	Mr. President, just a minute.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0286par0308	There's 50 people here.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0287par0309	Congressman, Mr. Turan, just a minute. Your speeches, your reaction, the public doesn't follow, and unfortunately, we're wearing this place out, so...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0286par0311	Mr. President, Mr. Vice President is insulting us both with body language and language.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0287par0312	Mr. Turan, just a minute.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0286par0313	You don't have to put up with it.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0287par0314	Mr. Turan, just a minute. So you're a friend I love.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0286par0316	He has no right to insult the House!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0288par0317	Do you see your own body language?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0286par0318	He won't insult the House.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0288par0319	And you're insulting us.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0289par0320	There's no way two or three of your friends can be yelled at here, and there's nothing to be done with yelling. Besides, Turkish politics has put that shout behind us, one.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0286par0321	Mr. President, you are responsible for protecting the House.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0289par0322	Two: I've been in politics for many years, and those who scream too much are hard to get on the next list.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0286par0324	Mr. President, I'm not yelling.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0289par0325	So be patient: Mr. Ozkoc is there, Mr. Oluç is there, Erkan Akçay is here, Mr. Levent is here.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0286par0326	You're responsible for protecting the House.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0289par0327	The members of the group are the Deputy Directors of the Group who have the power to protect the rights of your party.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0286par0328	Sir, you will.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0289par0329	Let's not tire our coven by shouting. And I'm telling you guys, friends from the AK PARTY group, I'm telling you all about it.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0286par0330	Of course, there were 50 of them, not even 50 of them.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0289par0331	Yes, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0290par0332	Guys, you're asking, I'm telling, why is it bothering you? I don't understand.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0286par0333	You're uncomfortable, too.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0290par0334	Turkey's Entity Fund: Public economic initiatives in our country...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0291par0335	Tell me about the car!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0290par0336	Look, since you're raising the volume, I have to speak louder.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0291par0337	How many gears is the car?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0290par0338	In our country, with the modern management approach of public economic initiatives -- I'm telling you about the wealth fund of Turkey -- it continues its efforts to best assess its contribution to the economy. Turkey's Entity Fund operates within the scope of its aims to reduce the current deficit, improve domestic savings, provide long-term capital solutions to strategic sectors that the private sector does not enter, and create strategies to increase the value of companies in its portfolio. Only a few examples of the concrete steps of the Entity Fund, such as the planned collection of petrochemistry in the Gulf of Alexander, the Afshin-Elbistan Power Plant, to reduce the current deficit. The collection of petrochemistry in the Gulf of Alexander is a major step that will reduce both the current deficit and provide considerable employment opportunities in the region. Next year, I hope you'll see, we'll all be proud of it. This year and next year, we will see again that we have made some very serious steps, very important progress in this project. Another step towards improving domestic savings is the establishment of Turkey's Insurance and Turkey's Retirement of Life. We've made an important step towards creating an international insurance brand with Turkey's Insurance, which is actually very important. So here we're not actually inside, we're more interested in creating a brand in the international area. By combining the interests of the Agriculture Bank, the Foundationbank and the Peoplebank in the areas of insurance and pension, we will be increasing domestic savings more effectively. As they did to every institution of Turkey's making important work -- again, unfortunately, you brought it -- again, from the opposition, from the plan and budget presentation, in many environments, so far, Turkey has been talking about the Entity Fund.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0292par0342	Turkish TELEKOM.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0290par0343	Again, without reading the contents of the reports published, the entity casts mud and casts mud at the Fund, comparing apples and pears again.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0293par0344	Who's controlling it?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0294par0345	He won't answer our questions. He won't even answer our questions.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0290par0346	They also stated that -- who this is is in my records, probably Mr. Kilicdaroglu -- was also used to say that his debt to the Turkish asset fund has increased astronomically. The Turkish Entity Fund has been declared unsupervised. The Turkish Entity Fund is subject to a very strict and comprehensive audit. An independent audit by internationally accepted companies under the supervision of the State Control Board...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0294par0347	Let the House oversee it, too, Parliament.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0290par0348	...and the process ends with Parliament's control over you, again, in our Parliament, which is the highest authority in our country.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0295par0349	Why doesn't the Court supervise?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0296par0350	You're using it like a parallel budget, parallel budget!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0290par0351	You said the Court. In the same way, the Court audit of all of our institutions under the control of the Turkish Entity Fund continues.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0295par0352	It's not, it's not.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0296par0353	Who runs this Entity Fund?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0297par0354	Talk about the Court audit of newly established companies.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0298par0355	It's about debt, guys, and that's not true, so believe me, I can't eat it. I mean, I don't want to use that word, but it's not true.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0296par0356	We can't check it out. Companies transferred to the asset fund cannot be audited.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0298par0357	Again, Mr. Kilicdaroglu was 26 billion dollars in 2017. In 2019, his short-term debts of the Turkish Entity Fund went from $26 billion to $951 billion in debt. Only two companies were consolidated, not all companies, to the financial tables of the Turkish Entity Fund in 2017. In 2018, other companies within the Fund also began to be consolidated in the Turkish Entity Fund financial tables. Mr. Kilicdaroglu must also know what the consolidation is, as an accountant, you must know very well.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0299par0358	You know better than that!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0298par0359	With 2 companies in 2017, 13 companies in 2018 will naturally make a difference in this console report. The independent inspector already wrote that down in his report. Furthermore, it is also agreed that debt in OECD standards is 22 per cent of the ratio of debt to assets -- even though it is acceptable to the 20 to 25 per cent -- is only 3 per cent of the debt rate of the Turkish asset fund, and only 3 per cent of it is. It wouldn't be as unfair as projecting the debt of the corporations due to consolidation as the debt of the Entity Fund, my friends. It's not as bad as comparing two companies to 13 companies, which is another miscalculation. Our asset-based development fund is also popular with international investors, the best response to those who try to defame Turkey's asset fund. As a strategic investment branch of our country, Turkey will continue to invest in its promising projects, its companies, and its business forces. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the work of our President's Organization for Islamic Co-operation, the Economic and Trade Co-operation Committee (İSEDAK), which is still in line with international representation and is well within the scope of our country's reputation by the President of Strategy Budget, which continued at full speed during Covid-19. The Homeowner Country Agreement, again under the protection of our President, was signed at the 35th ISEDAK Meeting, in accordance with efforts to establish the Islamic Co-operation Agency Research Centre in Istanbul. In the coming period, we will continue to achieve concrete results in these areas by accelerating projects such as the Islamic Co-operation Agency's Preferably Trade System, ISEDAK Gold Exchange, ISEDAK Real Estate Exchange and the S&P ISEDAK Index. Mr. President, the President of Communications has conducted strategic communication efforts over the year to strengthen our country's thesis and image on issues on national and international levels, and projects on the right and effective use of social media. Turkey-Azerbaijan also signed important business units, such as the media platform and the establishment of a strong international media and communications centre in Turkey-Malesia-Pakistan's partnership against Islamophobia. Our communications presidency will continue its leading and active role in public diplomacy to increase our country's brand value on each platform. I've already explained it here. That's why I'm saying this, not because I'm telling you, but because no matter how much we explain it, you don't want to hear it. Look, I'm telling you, I'm telling you right now, no one else, no one else, no one in the public, before, they could get as many board memberships as they wanted, or they could get peace rights or fees wherever they wanted, and we stopped it in our time, we stopped it, we stopped it, you didn't. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE; CHP rows of noise, applause!]
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0300par0366	Yes, Ibrahim Eren is in Türksat, and Ibrahim is in the thick turksat, where they receive ten thousand liras. What a lie!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0298par0367	And we said: no matter how many boards or places you serve, you can only get peace from one of them, you can't get anything from anyone else, and that's for everyone; there's no exception, and there's no law against it. I don't know if you'll hear me say it again on this occasion.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0300par0369	What a lie! TRT General Manager buys from TÜRKSAT, İbrahim buys from Kaltuk TURKSAT, and they receive ten thousand liras.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0298par0370	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are continuing their studies of science and communication, both abroad and abroad, with 129,000 members of our President of the Ministry of Religious Affairs.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0300par0371	All of them, all of them!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0298par0372	The social and cultural activities of the presidency, as well as religious services, contribute to social unity and unity are crucial. The role of our President of Religious Affairs is crucial in an environment where many treacherous terrorist organizations, such as the DEA, are surrounded and misinterpreted by Islam.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0300par0373	He takes the head of the RTÜK from the People's Bank, and İbrahim Eren takes it from TÜRKSAT, and İbrahim gets it from the Great Turksat.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0301par0374	Mr. Atila Sertel, I promise you, come here... don't shout, you'll lose your voice.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0300par0375	Mr. President, I'm informing his friend that he forgot, the memory is gone!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0301par0376	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0302par0377	In our nation's most difficult moments, the Society of Religious Affairs, who has always been there for him, has also sided with loyal support groups.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0303par0378	You weren't there for those who burned themselves...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0302par0379	Again, with insight to all parts of society, Alevi has personally led to the publication of works such as the Bektashi Classics set, the planning of the Muharremiye and Kerbala martyrs, and the carrying out of the tribal activities across the country. As for the budget, 96.2 per cent of the mayor's budget is also the salary and bonus costs of the members of the Religion staff, who are with our nation at the most difficult times. The forest fires were mentioned and the rain prayer was mentioned, you remember. Have fear of God.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0304par0382	You be afraid, you!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0302par0383	I mean, you can't question our environmentalism. I mean, especially you, about our forests...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0305par0384	Yeah, tell me about the budget, don't play politics!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0302par0385	It's about the forest and our tree love, and you're the last one to question it, and you're the last one.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0305par0387	Tell me the budget, don't show off!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0306par0388	Why did you cut down all those trees?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0302par0389	You know, the claim of deforestation does not reflect the truth.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0305par0390	Tell me about the budget!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0306par0391	You're showing off!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0302par0392	In 2002, the forest presence of 20.8 million hectares increased by 2.1 million hectares...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0307par0393	Yeah, how can you look at me like that and say that? Yeah, that's a lot of confidence!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0302par0394	At the end of the year 2020, it was increased to 22.9 million hectares.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0307par0396	You're burning down the woods!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0302par0397	In the last 18 years, 5.4 million hectares of wooding have been met with 5.1 billion saplings. By 2023, 7 billion plants will meet the land, whether you want to or not.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0308par0399	Don't do politics!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0302par0400	As for you, it is We who sow and you who destroy. We produce, you do. When it comes to the forests that the PKK has destroyed, you who have not made a sound are trying to insult us, protecting trees and forests, and you're talking about environmentalism.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0309par0402	Don't lie!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0302par0403	I'll tell you, this is just what we can count, the forest presence that the PKK destroyed; I'm just talking about what we can count.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0310par0404	You're zoning!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0302par0405	Ten million trees; that's just what we can count. Where are those who love trees?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0311par0406	We're here, you're in the palace!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0302par0407	If you're here, then make a noise. If you're here, make a noise. Speak up against the PKK, which burned the forests and trees, against the terrorist organizations. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the precious MPs...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0311par0411	We're here, you don't see!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0312par0412	Sing the mountains of the geese, the mountains of the geese.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0313par0413	What's the matter, why bother?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0314par0414	Whatever you do, we will continue to build, plant trees, protect the forests, make the environment beautiful. Mr. President, our National Government of the Palaces has been able to ensure that our historical monuments and structures will be visited by local, foreign visitors in the sense of modern museumism by local, foreign visitors, in order to remain loyal to their cultural and historical backgrounds.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0315par0416	President, you're looking at groups, but you're picking on orator groups, not interfering with them.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0314par0417	So again, the strategic importance of our economy is increasing the international competitiveness of our commercial sector.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0316par0418	The preacher raises his voice and turns it on himself.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0314par0419	Here, in fact, due to the lack of time, I'd like to cross this area.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0317par0420	Let's hear it, let's hear it.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0314par0421	We have many historical artifacts that have been especially restored. If you'd like, I can put it in writing. So we have many facilities from Beykoz Cam to the Ankara Palasa, from Topkapi Palace to Dolmabahçe and Star Houses...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0318par0422	You'll sell them soon enough.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0314par0423	Again, I regret that you have slandered the President of the National Palaces and the President of all these services -- I want to make it clear -- it's not elegant.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0319par0424	Yeah, don't lecture us on morality.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0314par0425	Our presidency of the National Palaces is working selflessly to preserve and develop historical and cultural heritage. Using the July 15th process as an excuse and as an excuse for travel events, it grieves us to speak out to our national palaces or to our president. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers, the defence industry, are all of the institutions that have the ability to develop the equipment our security forces need to protect our independence and to ensure the safety of our citizens in every field. Industrial branches, universities and private sectors and public institutions offer the value of contributing to the national defence industry in mutual interaction. Co-ordination and co-ordination among these actors contributing to the defence industry are vital to having fully independent defence technologies. Our President of the Republic, the Defence Industry, has taken on this strategic responsibility, and is moving ahead with the Turkish defence industry, led by our President with its structure, which strengthens its objectives and co-operation. In the last 18 years, the entire world has agreed that our defense industry has been making great progress. The industry has already been able to respond to the demands of our fellow and brother countries in this area beyond meeting the needs of our country, praise be to God. As a result of more than 700 (700) projects and other related activities, 11 billion dollars a year has been reached at the level of sector turnover and exports at the level of $3 billion. We already know that there are seven Turkish companies among the world's 100 largest defence industry companies today. We are among the 10 countries on land and sea defense vehicles that design, build, and maintain their own armored vehicles in the world. We're among the world's first three or three or four countries in the production of drones, SIHA and TIHA. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] With our successful domestic terrorist operations, our multinational defense products, particularly our drones, in our cross-border operations, such as the Fountain of Peace, the Firat Shield and the Olive branch, have strengthened the strength of our heroic army. Today, we're also developing advanced air defense systems that the whole world will follow with envy and will save Turkey from outside dependency, but we're going to improve. The sanctions they're trying to impose on us will help us develop the systems we're going to develop a little bit earlier, and it won't do us any other harm. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Praise be to God, we provide national security with national equipment. On land, ALTAY, EJDER and Pars. In the blue land, the nation. In the air, with ATAK, SKY, Raider, AKSUNGUR, and AKA. In electronic warfare systems, KORAL and SOJ. We're giving our country the strength to defend our country with our air and missile defense projects, HISAR, SORKUT and SIPER. You know, the tyrants, those rogue terrorist organizations, the ones we come down on them every day, to protect the rights of our citizens and the rights of the oppressed, we land on them with our native and national equipment. Those who are disturbed, those who are trying to enforce sanctions, are also sanctioned because of this, not because the state of the Republic of Turkey, its government, its nation, doesn't know how to operate or how to work with the international community, but because they don't know how to follow those rules. We didn't harm a single civilian in our most difficult operations across the border, thanks to our defense industry technology, none of them. We've been very careful with all of them. Look at the latest examples of this, not just us, but the operations of Azerbaijan, where you've seen the possibilities of our technology. You've seen what the Armenians have done, what the Turkish nation has done there, and I've seen it, especially for civilians. What's interesting is that we see it very clearly, and we know that our nation sees it clearly. We shoot bloody terrorists, we shoot them in their dens, we shoot the oppressors; it's coming from France, it's coming from the Western countries. When we look where the sound is coming from, it's coming from inside, it's coming from people who are their spokesman. When we look where the sound is coming from, we actually see that we're on the right track. No matter where the sound comes from, we'll go the right way. We will continue to stand by the people against the terrorists and the oppressed against the oppressors. And I say unto those of them who cry unto Us, and their servants in the earth: We care not where they cry, nor do we care; we go on as we know, and we go on. (EC PARTY) All we need is for our nation to be with us, and our people are already expressing that they are with us at every opportunity.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0320par0433	People are not with you, no one is with you anymore!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0314par0434	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, it's the fact that the competencies we've earned in the defence industry have taken on other industrial arms, and that it's also very important for innovative approaches in RD studies, which is actually why we're concentrating on our work in this field. In harmony with changing global conditions, new defence industry concepts also work in areas such as biosecurity, cyber security and food security, which are important for our future, and we are very closely monitoring developments. We also continue to invest in many critical and innovative areas, such as aviation materials and processes, sensors, measurements and components, data analysis, secure communications, energy materials, lasers and electromagnetic weapons systems. Do I have the time?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0321par0436	I interrupted you from time to time because of these screams, and it was more or less a minute and a half. I'll give you the last two minutes, round it up, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0322par0437	They cut us, you didn't give us time. Mr. President, you haven't given us time. Is that why he has a car, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0314par0438	Well, we had a lot to talk about, but I'm gonna make it up to you. In particular, these slanders about the Tank Palet Factory in Arifija, which we have explained over and over again, and we have talked about the tank, and I will tell you again. I'm speaking to you, and I'm speaking to our people again. If we can tell you, if you can understand, I'm calling you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0323par0441	Yeah, that's a shame! You're really embarrassing me! I mean, not like this, it's a shame! We're talking to you here with respect. That's no way to talk. What a way to talk!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0324par0442	You don't understand!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0323par0443	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0324par0444	There's no such thing. That doesn't sound like him. If you can understand... what does it mean?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0323par0445	It's a shame! We treat you with respect. How can you talk like that in a way we don't deserve? If you can understand... what does it mean?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0325par0446	Wait a minute... Wait a minute... Mr. Ozkoch, wait a minute... I don't understand your reaction.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0326par0447	The more our country's national interests require, the more we will continue to increase our share of the defence industry. Guys, we're talking about the mass production of a prototype tank. The prerequisite for mass production, including the power system, the motor transmission, and the side-action components...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0327par0449	If you can understand... what does it mean?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0326par0450	I'll try to tell you if I can, if you understand. If you don't understand, we'll continue.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0327par0451	You didn't say that, you didn't say that, you lied! Mr. Vice President, I didn't see it coming. I didn't see it coming. It's not like that, it's not like that!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0326par0452	Because we've told you this many times, and we've been asking the same questions over and over again, and that's why I'm telling you this. I've said it many times, but look, I don't use it as an insult. That's what we're talking about with all our best intentions, and that's what our president's telling us.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0327par0453	Of course you will, you're in power. That's a shame!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0328par0454	Apologize, I'm sorry!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0326par0455	On every level, you don't hear it!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0328par0456	Apologize!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0326par0457	We're talking mass production of a prototype tank. The precondition for mass production is that the components, including the power system, the engine, the transmission, and the lateral component, are without problems. In particular, the power system is not happening due to the country's failure to authorize exports. Well, instead of criticizing it, you're starting to criticize this side.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0329par0459	You don't know how to speak properly. You're arrogant.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0330par0460	Where's the tank, tank? There's no tank! Where's the factory? In Qatar.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0326par0461	Please, please be careful here. The country that's not causing problems in the development of prototypes is causing problems in mass production, and why? I'll leave it to your appreciation.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0331par0463	You've been appointed!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0330par0464	Where's the tank? There's no tank. Who's got the factory? In Qatar.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0331par0465	You're an altar boy! Apologize!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0332par0467	Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0333par0468	Despite everything, I mean, we're going to provide both the power systems and the engines and the domestic production, and we're going to build that tank, and we're going to produce it in time. A tank to be built in 18 months. This barrier will be done as soon as it is overcome.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0334par0469	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0332par0470	Miss Özlem, I didn't promise you a deadline. So I extended it for two minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0335par0471	We're in favor of a deadline, sir. You can give me time.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0336par0472	Where's the tank? There's no tank. Who's got the factory? In Qatar. Where's the car? There's no car.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0337par0473	We can answer all of them, since there's no time...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0338par0474	Well, thank you, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0337par0475	I salute you all again with love. I wish you the best of our presidential budget.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0338par0477	Mr. Göker...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0339par0480	Mr. President, first of all, I have a few questions for Mr. Vice President. First, you have handed over the right to operate the Tank Palet Factory to the BMC. Are the workers here working for the National Department of Defense? Are they paid by the National Defense Department or by the BMC company? My second question is: Burdur Governorate has transferred the most wet area of Burdur, Burdur Prison Campus, to the treasury for water storage to meet the needs of water. The water tank that's going to be built here is equivalent to completing regional agriculture. Kurna, Çatalal, Sala, China, Rock Under, Bayındır villages who see agriculture here will not be able to do this agriculture. I'd like you to reconsider this project...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0340par0483	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0341par0484	Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0340par0486	Attention to our nation, after 70 minutes of criticism, I'm afraid I'm entitled to a three-minute response, and I want our nation to know. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] First of all, Mr. Vice President said: "I don't want to lie. I don't want to say that you lied. But you said that the Court is overseeing the asset fund." Look, what does Court President Seyit Ahmet Baş say? I read his words exactly: In this scope, the companies of which will be established by the Turkish Entity Fund Management Corporation are not subject to the Court's audit. That's one. Second: The economy of Turkey has improved a lot: you say. Right now, the economy of Turkey -- you appointed the son-in-law -- we insisted that it was wrong -- 47 billion dollars minus -- we don't know where 128 billion dollars went. My dear friends, what we should fear most is interest. You say so, and I agree. Turkey pays $2.4 million an hour interest, hourly. I'm not saying that, you're saying that. He pays $57.8 million a day, $1.8 billion a month, pays interest. I'm not saying that, you are. Islam is the foundation of justice; Islam is our religion. The AKP has left no sense of justice in this country in 18 years. Waste is forbidden in our religion. Eighteen years of this waste, we pay these interest. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, head of power and AKP leader, resides in 12 palaces, not 1, not 2.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0342par0492	Mr. Ozkoch, just one minute...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0340par0493	The floating palaces, and the flying palaces, and the fleets, and the people in their service, and the people at their table; and the waste is an impotence, and the right of a servant is a great sin, and do not come to me with a servant's right. We don't give away the rights of the kids who stole the test question!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0343par0495	And slander is a sin.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0344par0496	A slander is a sin, and a lie is a sin.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0340par0497	We don't give away the rights of young people who've been eliminated from the government gate by torpedo! We don't give away the rights of mothers with burning lungs! We don't give away the rights of the families of martyrs, especially when you're on the money! We don't forgive the rights of mine workers when you don't pay compensation! We don't allow the millions you condemn to dry bread! All this is forbidden. We don't approve of the tenders you've delivered to the address, the state property you've been after, the millions you've condemned to dry bread!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0345par0499	You can't give someone else their due, they can. What a deep knowledge you have!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0340par0501	You have drowned, you have shed Muslim blood, and the number of Muslims slain in the Great Middle East Project is 3 million and 750.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0346par0502	Are you still there?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0340par0503	The co-chair of the Great Middle East Project is AKP President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0347par0505	Get out of here, come on! Listen to you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0340par0506	Drugs, prostitution, violence against women, harassment has come under your power.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0348par0507	Get out of here! Harassment?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0340par0508	But, Mr. Vice President, you may speak ill of everything, but I say you have neither the right nor the right to insult the founder of this country, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, Ismet Inönu and his friends.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0349par0510	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0350par0513	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, yes, we've seen a very arrogant presentation, pride, pride running all over it, and not the first time. [[Applause from HDP rows]] So, the world looks up to Turkey with envy. You said, which Turkey does he look up to? Is he jealous of Turkey, the enemy of all its neighbours? Is he jealous of Turkey, who has become at odds with all Western allies? Is Turkey jealous of the multi-crisis, economic, social and political crisis? Is he jealous of Turkey, which has millions of unemployed, poor people, whose inflation has exploded, whose debts have exploded, whose currency has been raised dry, and whose money has been scalded? That's what you did to Turkey. Is Turkey, who has no democracy, who has no rule of law, envy? Is the world jealous of Turkey, who violates human rights, violates freedoms, makes torture the way it is? Since the world doesn't envy Turkey, we're in this situation, so let's figure it out. Secondly, you're talking about the threats and challenges Turkey faced, your power created them all; we gave them all of what they wanted on July 15th. Today, if Turkey is facing sanctions from all sides, your wrong foreign policy created it, not anyone else, you created it.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0351par0518	Tell me about the PKK, what PKK has created in this country...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0350par0519	Now, no, sir, the threats and challenges Turkey faced, no such thing.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0351par0520	Talk about PKK, talk about their creations, their abuses, their tortures.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0350par0521	You've united forces in one person, you've upset the balance control mechanism, you've created a government, not a state of law.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0351par0522	Why don't you talk about PKK?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0352par0523	Speak without shouting.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0350par0524	The administration has become a law-ordered executive. You created this.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0353par0526	One minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0354par0528	Keep your voice down, keep your voice down. Our ears exploded.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0355par0529	That's where you're yelling.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0356par0530	Why don't you talk about PKK's abuses, PKK's actions? Why don't you tell me about the people who have persecuted this country for 40 years?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0357par0531	Now, let's not talk about that. Every time we talk about unemployment, poverty.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0356par0532	You're having a hard time, aren't you? The new CIAs were built because the drones exploded on PKK's head.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0357par0533	Yeah, we've cursed anyone who's burned a seedling, damn it, but those who cut down those trees, cut down those trees for the runt, those who cut down those trees for the runt, those who built these hotels for the runt of the Base Pigeons, God damn them, too. You created them, this power created them.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0356par0535	You're next to a Marxist, Leninist, nihilist structure, showing pictures.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0357par0536	Now, we're going to talk about all of this, but this pride of yours will surely end it, and I assure you of that.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0356par0538	Put a picture of those who were martyred in Eruh, and a picture of those who were martyred in 1983.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0358par0539	You're gonna get caught up in all this.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0356par0540	Put them down as well as those who were slaughtered by the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0359par0541	Get up there, talk, get out! Don't you have a Deputy Director of the Group to answer? Are they weak?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0356par0542	It's you! Are you weak?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0360par0543	Why are you shouting in here, lawmakers? Miss Özlem wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0361par0546	Mr. President, we've come from a long day.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0362par0547	Are you weak while they shout? Are you weak while they shout?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0363par0548	We said to them, "Stop! You do not interfere with those who are in the rear."
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0361par0549	Mr. Abdullah, please...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0364par0550	Miss Özlem, let me reboot.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0365par0551	What kind of talk is that?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0364par0552	Mr. Abdullah, this is Miss Özlem speaking.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0366par0553	He can't stand it, he can't stand it...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0367par0554	Mr. Abdullah, please...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0368par0555	I mean, it's rude to talk like that?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0367par0556	My dear friends, we've come from a long day. To be honest, I thought we had a quiet day for the past few days. Of course, Mr. President's failure to make promises has a profound effect on that. You're saying you're running out of time. Now, of course, Mr. Vice President, when you listen to what was said on the stand, Mr. Oluç, I mean, it's hard to stay normal. So, of course, the questions... let's listen, you can ask your questions any way you want -- for all our friends -- and he answers calmly. So you're waiting for the people who listen to you when you're saying all these things, when the attacker's talking, to pretend that he's not human. Everyone and everyone deserves a little respect when they're trying to tell them what they're doing with good intentions. So we need to see why this is happening first. Now, you're saying about the world; let's see what America has done, what it's done to America: it's destroyed South America, it's scattered Syria, it's scattered Afghanistan, it's scattered Myanmar. England has ruined India, I just read yesterday about Mahatma Gandhi. So, now, you're looking at that "A," the state of law. There's no law in the countries you call law, just for themselves. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We're trying to be a first-class country, first-class! You keep saying the same thing: "Yamama, the process is the same." See, in the current presidential government system, you go to the public, you take the majority here, and then you can't make a fuss about it. You, the vote you can't get yourself... we, the majority of us, are here in power, and yet you want to use the right, the law, which you can't get from the nation, and you call it the law. It's not knowing this country, it's not knowing the legal order of this country. You have to remember that every member of parliament who comes here comes with the people's greens, and the executive talks with that power, and the living talks with that power, and I want to remind you once again. As for the judgment, I'm a man who knows very well what a difficult job the law has done, and we ask our friends in all the judicial community to do it with their consciences, by upholding the law. It's very Islamic here today...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0369par0563	Why do you need this request?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0367par0564	Mr. President, I have a sentence to make.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0370par0565	One minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0367par0567	I find it interesting, so that's how you like the word "haram." Haram is a very important word, I think. For who? For people who put these values into their life, the word 'haram.' is important to them.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0371par0568	Of course, so are we.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0367par0569	Oh, well, in that sense, if you're using a judge, a prosecutor... I'm one of those people who doesn't use that literature, look, I wouldn't call it "haram" here. Why? It means something to my world. I use legal concepts.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0371par0570	Not for us?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0367par0571	I'm using legal concepts, okay? And when we look from here -- I believe that the Turkish judicial community must decide within the conscience, the law, the real legal state's logic. If anyone does not give, then the money they receive is not lawful, it is forbidden, and I speak with your understanding. Let them decide.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0371par0573	It's forbidden, leave it in their throats!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0367par0574	Let them decide, and the brave men do, and the brave men; and we expect them to do so. [[Noises from CHP rows]] And then I'll say, please, my dear friends, there's a limit to blaming each other while we're here talking about these things. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I can't understand you yelling about this car. So, what car are we Group Vice Presidents in? They didn't give it to you? They gave you a different car? They gave you a different car? To you, to you, and to you. What is my brother?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0372par0580	Thank you. Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0367par0582	You're using the government's resources! It's not like you'd be on a bike if you were president. I find that a little strange, too! Is the president of this country the car that the vice president of this country knows about? It's his physical existence that matters. Yeah, there's a man powering up from a car?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0372par0584	Okay, thank you. Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0367par0586	Not at all, sir. Not at all.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0373par0587	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0367par0588	What's that? It's not about that, sir! What's this, a car, a car, a car...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0374par0589	If you'll just listen.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0367par0590	Look, we're riding too, the government gave it to us. I only have a personal car for $30,000, one. I'll get back, I'll get one of my own, simple as that. Let's all leave if you want. Besides, you're not quitting on your own, so let's leave it together.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0375par0591	If you'd like, I can make the argument indefinitely in this frame, and we can discuss it until morning. Turkey is tired and tired of talking about the same things. You turn around, we walk around, and the conversations go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0367par0592	It really is.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0375par0593	Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0367par0594	Don't get in, brother, you won't get in when you get in.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0376par0596	Can you reboot, Mr. President? Thank you. I'd like to say something because Mr. Özlem called me by name.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0377par0599	I didn't hear the last sentence. I'm sorry. What development?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0376par0600	Mr. Rich, I'd like to say something for criticizing my tone.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0377par0601	Yeah.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0376par0602	Now, look, we're discussing budgets, right? Of course, naturally, we don't say anything that's natural to exaggerate what they're doing in power.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0377par0603	And you're going to be exaggerating.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0376par0604	E, the opposition will tell you what's not naturally done.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0377par0605	You're going to exaggerate.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0376par0606	We don't say anything by exaggerating what's missing from time to time. But you know what the problem here is? He doesn't know how to listen to power, that's the problem.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0377par0607	The opposition listens a lot. Car, car, car...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0378par0609	But he listened to you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0376par0610	I listened to you, I listened to you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0377par0611	You've been listening, I swear, really. You've been listening a lot. I've got a car in my ear.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0376par0612	Look, why don't you listen? Mr. Vice President says, "I mean, I'm talking here, but I don't know if you can understand."
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0377par0613	The car, yes, the car. I'll hear it from now on.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0376par0614	I mean, that was the nicest. There have been other ministers, shouting and yelling, insulting and all that. So the problem is, it might apply to all of us if we don't have a negotiating tradition, maybe for all of us.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0377par0615	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0376par0616	But here, you take your share, and I'd like to say this. Secondly, I mean, you're impatient with criticism. And when you criticize a little too much, for example, Mr. Vice President comes out here, you have dark relations with the opposition. He says there's no telling what you're doing behind closed doors.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0379par0618	Right.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0376par0619	Yeah, that's a pretty strong accusation. Now, in response to that, for example, one would say, "Do we have dark relationships or do we have the power to have a relationship with the mafia?"
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0380par0620	What relationship? I don't have any. Mr. Oluç, please... I mean, everything that's happened inside of you, you're talking to us, turn around and look at yourself.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0376par0621	Therefore, the government will take note of its style, its choice of sentences, and the opposition will pay attention. So the problem here comes first from power. You don't want to see this. You will answer as the ruling, and we will answer as the opposition. But not with such arrogance, contempt, shouting.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0380par0622	There's a dose of everything, not arrogance!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0381par0623	Well, thank you, Mr. Oluç. Mr. Dervisoglu, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0382par0626	Thank you very much. I salute the General Assembly. What we went through every night has happened again today. Our political party representatives have made their speeches, there is no silence in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, there is no debate, there is no expression beyond purpose, but when spoken as a representative of the administration, you appreciate that there is a debate going on here. However, the administration shouldn't feel the need to defend itself here because the administration puts the budget in front of us. We were able to change the comma of the budget that the administration put in front of us, where we were able to change the point. You do what you're told. Then what's the reason behind this argument? I'm afraid this power is fed by these Kabul discussions and maatteessef. I'll make sure I don't get involved in something like this. Now, there's no opposition at all as you predicted, Mr. Vice President. We also condemn the United States of America together. We sign it, you sign it, the Republican People's Party is throwing it, the National Movement Party is throwing it. Together we condemn France, and applaud the judgment of Ayasophiah, and celebrate the victory of Azerbaijan. So in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, you go back to the opposition and talk to the terrorists a little bit. What I'm trying to say to you is that your power has made silence against terrorists a fashion. We're not the ones who give orders to the governor of the state and say, "Don't see, don't hear." We're not the ones who tie the hands of the state, blind, deafen their ears. Now, you've come here, behind closed doors, you've stated that we're drafting the Constitution with dark relations, and we've denied that.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0383par0632	Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0382par0633	We denied it repeatedly, the Republican People's Party denied it, the HDP denied it.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0384par0634	He did. HDP did not deny.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0382par0635	It's in your best interest, I'm not going to fit in. I've already told you that I've solved your QA algorithm. I condemn and protest that Mr. Vice President, who has been denied by so many, has brought such slander to the seat of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. (PEOPLE APPLAUSE) You're very sorry, Mr. Vice President. There's so much to say... [[FROM THE GOOD PARTY, THE GOOD PARTY SOUND, THE AK PARTY AC PARTY]] No, he's not here.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0385par0638	Shame on you!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0382par0639	He said to me, "Oh, my God." Boo me, boo me. Because I'm telling the truth, boo. Now, not just today, but yesterday, a minister of ours is speaking. And he's responding with a proper degree, the opposition. Do you trust the building? No, you're waiting for a fight?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0386par0642	Biden's not saying that, Biden.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0382par0643	Since I can't speak loudly, let's turn on the microphone.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0387par0644	But I didn't give anyone time, so no one.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0382par0645	Then I'll stand up. Are you seeking help from the builder? Are you waiting for a coup? Yes, there is only one place where we pray and lean on God, where we believe in God, where we trust in the people. There's nothing else. Therefore, at least pronounce the words of your accuser by napping up and down the line when you say them. We have nothing to prove to you or anyone else about our past. Our entire political struggle is on bail from our past. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0388par0649	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0389par0651	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0390par0652	I also condemn his friend, who called us "Woe! "
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0391par0653	That'll be all, Mr. Abdullah, that'll be all.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0389par0654	Mr. President, I'm running out of time. I'm also asking friends to...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0392par0655	Wait a minute, don't start. Yeah, well, it's not right for you guys to talk all the way down here. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0393par0658	He thinks he's at a football game, he's normal.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0394par0659	Thank you, Mr. President. We've completed negotiations on the presidential budget. We'll have their vote in a moment. First, we thank Mr. Fuat Oktay for his statements and wish for further success. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] I also wish that the budgets of the State Archives Presidency, the Chairman of the National Palace Administration, the President of Communication, the President of the Religious Affairs, the Head of the National Intelligence Service, the Secretary General of the National Security Board, the President of Defence Industry, the President of Strategy and Budget should be blessed. The United States, which failed to achieve its goals in the coup attempt on July 15th, has been present in every area that Turkey has fought and defended its rights. The PKK has provided thousands of planes and trucks of weapons to terrorist organizations in northern Syria and Iraq, the United States, which have given every sneaky support to its terrorist organisation. The United States, which is trying to lead Turkey through economic operations, has taken Hafter (i.e.), Pashinyan (i.e. Karabağ) and Pashinyan (i.e. Pashinyan) in the blue country, and has taken over Turkey's enemies. Turkey, along with its steps, its policies, and its major breakthroughs in our defence industry, has broken down all the games established. Thus, some countries of the United States and the European Union have been conducting covert sanctions against our defence industry against Turkey for some time. The United States is trying to block our country's defence industry by trying to stop the S-400, saying it will first remove Turkey from its F-35 programme, which is its partner. By this decision, the United States has formally declared Turkey's adversary and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has given the necessary answer. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0395par0666	Here you go, one minute.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0394par0667	There is nothing new, the United States, which prevented our defence industrial projects in the 1950s, which decided to embargo Cyprus in 1974, is now trying to block our defence industry by showing its opposition to Turkey once again. By transferring more resources to defence industry investments, the US will have no jurisdiction over the decision on sanctions, Turkey will not need the guidance of other countries. Turkey is an independent and honorable country. The United States, who sees Turkey as an enemy, should know that history is full of sad precedents for those who oppose Turkey as an enemy. The order of the Jackal will break the sentence of the corrupt. (Applause from MHP) Turkey will walk with determination to its goals 2023, 2051, 2071. Mr. Ismail Demir and Selçuk Bayraktar, president of the Defence Industry, who have achieved great success in the defence industry today, thank you once again on behalf of the great Turkish nation. We're very proud of you. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] We also congratulate the National Intelligence Agency and all its employees, who, along with our security forces, have signed successful operations against terrorist organizations. I wish you all the blessings of the presidential budget and the budgets we're meeting today, our country, our nation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0396par0672	Miss Özlem, do you have any requests?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0397par0673	One sentence, yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0396par0674	One sentence, please.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0397par0676	I would like to express to Mr. Dervisoglu the following: Mr. President, I understand your sensitivities. You mean things about your own life to your own sensitivities, but you have to understand us. Look, even when you're talking, there's a very ugly voice coming from behind, and I won't repeat it. So, of course, we're hearing these different sounds that we see at your party, and there's nothing more natural than what we're hearing from what we're hearing, and of course, we're asking our vice president the question, and we're saying -- let's say, what's going on? These aren't personal attacks, I want to express it. Finally, I wish that our presidency's budget would be better. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, we can actually continue and finish very soon.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0398par0680	We keep going, we keep going.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0397par0681	Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0398par0682	Thank you. Mr. Oktay, Mr. Vice President, just a minute. Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0399par0686	There's a noise in the background, and I do it all the time, there might be blood pressure. Sir, as we speak from time to time...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0400par0687	Friend thought it was a football field, maybe.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0399par0688	Look, he's still coming.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0400par0689	Friend thinks it's a football field, it could be, it's normal.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0401par0690	You don't think so.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0399par0691	Maybe, brother, maybe that's why. You have experience with me.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0400par0692	He's got the love of football, he's got the habit, maybe.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0399par0693	Anyway, what you're saying is, you don't know if I'm gonna understand...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0400par0694	I'm saying he thought it was a football field.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0402par0695	Where did you come from, brother? Wait a minute, for God's sake! [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0403par0698	He's probably just saying that. I wonder if Miss Özlem, after our Vice President, is having second thoughts about whether I understand what she's saying, which is where she starts to attack before I even begin to speak.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0404par0699	We don't understand. You say, what should I say?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0403par0700	I've expressed that I've always been in the face of boos, boos, euphemisms in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0405par0701	Right, right.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0403par0702	You are my first witness. So, look, time is passing, tension is happening. I'm talking in my group, with my band, with my friends talking behind my back. Why? So, the lights are crushing, the colors are suffocating, and the arguments are hot, and sometimes the statements are beyond purpose. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But everybody knows, and everybody knows that we're friends, we're brothers, and we're talking about Turkey's problems here. Thank you for your patience.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0406par0706	Okay, that's good. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0407par0708	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0406par0709	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0407par0710	I came to the bench, and I asked, according to 69, by the name of Mr. Faik Oztrak, our Vice President...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0406par0711	Right. I'll give him my word, he'll be fine.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0407par0713	Yes, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0406par0714	Mr. Öztrak, your time is two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0408par0719	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Oktay has just stated here that my criticism is completely baseless. Which criticism is baseless, and I'd like to take a brief look at it, dear lawmakers. I said the regime of one man, which means nothing to me to say, that I am in charge of everything, which is now sitting in the chair of the President of the United States. He's the only man, he says it himself. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I said the party state regime, e, the party state regime.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0409par0724	No, sir, it's not. What makes you say that? It's not.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0408par0725	So the governors, the governors, today, the mayors of the party, the mayors of the county. We see it on the news every day. I said the custody regime, yes, or the regime. So the judiciary is appointed by the chairman of the EC PARTI, who sits in the presidential seat of almost all Judges Prosecutors' Council. Two: once again, when you look, the legislature. In the legislature, I'm faced with a view I've never seen before. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the nation chooses us, the nation chooses you, the nation chooses us all.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0410par0729	The president is elected by the people.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0408par0730	The nation chooses the president, but the nation does not choose the vice president, and the nation does not choose the ministers.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0411par0732	According to the Constitution...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0412par0733	Constitutional rights...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0408par0734	Who's picking? He elects the president, he elects the chairman of the EC PARTY, who sits in the chair. No, there's no custody.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0413par0735	When you choose, people give you the authority.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0412par0736	It's all about people, it's all about people!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0408par0737	Well, then the Chief of Staff was appointed in the past, so why were you talking about custody? This one has custody, this one has custody. There was custody, it was true. He was opposed to custody. We're getting rid of this custody regime. It's said, today, we're looking at a great deal of custody. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And there's a custody today that the President has now placed himself as the CEO of the Entity Fund. [[The voices of the CHP's ranks (Bravo) applaud; the noise from the AK PARTI's ranks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let me make it clear that no appointed minister, no officer, has the right to stand up and understand your grand delegation, you do not understand...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0414par0743	Well, thank you, Mr. Oztrak.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0415par0744	Not at all, not at all. Ministers are not officers.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0416par0745	Officer, officer...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0415par0746	He has the same rights, equal rights.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0417par0747	You're gonna hold up the vote people give you. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0418par0749	Okay, thank you. Thank you. Now, I'm upset about this whole time thing, too, but we've made that decision in the budget. So I thank Mr. Oztrak.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0419par0751	Mr. President, may I have your word?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0418par0752	Mr. Rich, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0419par0755	Mr. President, now, the problem is that Mr. Oztrak said so in his speech. Mr. President, our Vice President has responded himself because you have not given us your word. He came up with the answer again and said exactly what he said here. Now, what should we do then? So he recognises the constitutional rights given by the Constitution on the election of the MP, and he recognises the rights of the same Constitution (the Constitution) to be elected President, but he says he does not recognise the rules or rights of the same Constitution (the Constitution) concerning the election of Vice President. There's no such thing as logic, what kind of logic is that? In the same way, there's a huge -- and I don't want to say the word "lie" about life -- because we all know how to make choices about living, about high judgment. Some of them are elected by the President and some by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as they are in all the countries of the world. I mean, there's nothing left for you to do when you're making choices around here like this. I mean, it's a matter of nature, and I don't think it's any use repeating it again.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0418par0756	Okay, thank you. Mr. Oktay, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0420par0759	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to point out a few things: there was a review of the asset fund, and I repeat exactly what I said. I said, when I looked at the size of the control, I said independent control, the control of the State Control Board and the control of Parliament over it. What I said about the Court, I said that all of our institutions that were under the roof of the Turkish Entity Fund and were under the control of the Court before, are under the same supervision of the Court.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0421par0761	Newly formed...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0422par0762	Absolutely not, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0420par0763	So there's nothing contrary to your explanation.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0422par0764	It's not me, it's the Chairman of the Court.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0420par0765	So there's nothing wrong with the Court's president's statement.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0422par0766	It's the Chairman of the Court.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0420par0767	Thus, the control of institutions, institutions that belong to them remains the same.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0423par0768	New companies?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0420par0769	Maybe I can answer questions about the Federal Reserves.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0423par0770	Subsidiaries?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0420par0771	Again, I don't recall commenting on Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of the state of the Republic of Turkey, especially not negatively.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0424par0772	It's about his comrades.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0420par0773	How did you get such a strong comment? So these kind of comments are coming from you, not us.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0424par0774	His comrades...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0420par0775	So we say his name, we don't say his name, you have his arguments. There's nothing wrong with us, there's nothing remotely wrong with it, and there's nothing on any of the sides of the conversation to suggest it. When I say one party period, I hope you know exactly what I mean, what I mean, and what I mean, it's in the transcripts. Again, when we look at the size of international relations, I would like to say once again that we are implementing a policy that is central to Turkey. And independent is where we stand firmly, ourselves, our feet, Turkey. So if there are imperial forces with accounts for our country and the region, and those who are uncomfortable with it have nothing to do with it. If they're not happy with what we're doing, it gives us nothing but pride, nothing more. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0425par0779	One minute... Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0420par0781	As for vanity, what was just expressed was exactly what I wanted to express about vanity. I used that concept, I started using it in the Plan and Budget Commission. That's exactly what I'm talking about, especially our friends in the opposition, what we call the presidential government system, and before that it wasn't different, we're talking about three different guys. Unfortunately, our friends in the opposition, in their attitude, in their behavior, in their speech, in such an appointment, in their selection, in their custody, in such arrogance, on friends of the Cabinet...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0426par0782	Why are the chosen ones in your pain?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0420par0783	So you politely say that we do not know the Constitution. We do not recognise the Constitution, even if the Parliament approves.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0427par0785	There's no such thing. You're deflecting.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0420par0786	So we say, whether you recognize it or not, in the framework of the Constitution, we will continue to conduct all of our operations within the framework of the Republic of Turkey, which the Constitution has drawn.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0428par0787	You're the ones who don't fit! The Constitutional Court is not implementing the decisions of the local court.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0420par0788	As for Mevlüt Bey's interpretation... there was also a voice from here, and I'm sorry to hear such a voice from the House.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0429par0790	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0420par0791	The interpretation of Mevlüt Bey... is that we're going to use the second part of the budget. When you say, "No, do you expect a coup or something?" So we're already against it, and we're against it, too. We respect the will of the nation. If you say so, there is no problem here. The election is in 2023. If you claim to use the second part of the budget next year in a country where the election is in 2023, tell us if there's anything you know that we don't. So we believe in God, and we trust in God and our people.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0429par0792	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0430par0793	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0429par0794	Mr. Ozkoch, let's continue the negotiations.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0430par0795	I'm just finishing up, for the record. Mr. President, there has been a choice, a decision has been made, and of course, all political parties in the Republic of Turkey agree with it, we don't know it. There is no such thing.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0431par0797	God bless you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0430par0798	We don't find it right. It's something else. We don't think it's right for ministers to serve like bureaucrats, we don't think it's right for ministers to be assigned between one person's lips.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0431par0799	You conflicted, conflicted.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0432par0800	The ministers aren't bureaucrats.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0430par0801	The ministers must be elected from within the nation and answer to the nation, not against the palace.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0433par0802	What are the ministers doing? He's a politician.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0430par0803	You answer to the palace, not people.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0434par0804	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0435par0805	We answer to you here, if you are the palace...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0436par0806	That's no way to answer, Mr. Vice President. You're welcome.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0437par0807	How else is that gonna work?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0436par0808	No documents, no information, no answers to the question. Is the asset fund being audited? Please. He's being audited here. You say.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0437par0809	He's been answering for an hour and a half. Come on.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0436par0810	But he's not being audited, he's fooling you, he's not being audited, he's not being audited. The presidency says that the President can't be president at the same time.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0437par0811	You didn't let them listen.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0438par0812	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0439par0813	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0438par0815	Mr. President, we don't think it's right to stress that the ministers are constantly appointed. The status of the ministers is set in the Constitution, and after being appointed by the President, they are sworn in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and they are also responsible for the Supreme Court as well as for their crimes, and they are responsible for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. And the ministers are not bureaucrats, they also have political personalities.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0440par0817	Of course, they took an oath in the House, the ministers took an oath in the House.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0439par0818	Thank you. 1) presidential Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Central Management Final Account for the presidency 2019 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2021 Central Management Budget 2) National Intelligence Agency Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2021 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board Secretary General 2019 Central Management Terms C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget of 2021 2) The Central Management Final Account for the President of Religious Affairs 2019 1) President of State Archives 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Archives Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget of 2021 2) Central Management Final Account for the Executive Board of National Palaces 2019 1) Strategy and Budget President 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Communication Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account THE PRESIDENT OF THE SURVIVATION [[Continue]] 1) Defence Industry Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Defence Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 Mr. Arslan Kabukcuoğlu, here to speak against you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0441par0855	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a personal pledge in the eighth round of budget talks. I salute your high council. In accordance with the principle of secularism, the Head of Religious Affairs, which is part of the Constitution's 136/nth Article of the Constitution for the Presidency of Religious Affairs, he shall act in accordance with the principle of secularism, which aims to establish solidarity and integration of the nation in all political views and thinking, and shall carry out the decree of the special law. There are about 132,000 staff members within the scope of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, and they are more powerful than the nine ministries, with a 13 billion share from the budget. First of all, it is imperative to say that the president, Mr. President, is allowing presidents to work on their own terms, not according to their science and conscience. He tends to make those who are inclined to this purpose president. For example, a cult can be a factor in the dismissal of the President of Religious Affairs. An imam may be relieved of his position because he does not express a pro-government opinion. In the results of sociological research, the Head of Religious Affairs is not well. For example, in the 2014 KODA research, the satisfaction of the Ministry of Religious Affairs is 66 percent. In the research data of Kadir Has University, the confidence of the Ministry of Religious Affairs dropped to 45% in 2017, to 43 per cent in 2018. In another study conducted by Kadir Has University in 2017, the confidence in the police, the gendarmes, the army was 60 per cent, while the trust in the judiciary was 48 per cent, and the trust in the Dianet was 42 per cent. When we look at the 2019 Ipsos research, the ranking of most trusted professions is: trust in scientists 70 percent, trust in doctors 51 percent, trust in teachers 59 percent, trust in religious leaders 12 percent -- there's worse -- and trust in politicians 11 percent. Finally, the most secure institution ranking in the Plus One company's 2020 Turkey agenda is: 30 per cent for Turkish Armed Forces, 21 per cent for the presidency, 7 per cent for the police force, 3 per cent for political parties, and not even 7 per cent per thousand for the Dianet. Sadly, the ambition of the EC PARTY has eaten up the politics, political ideas, the Diet. It is vital for the unity and unity of the citizens that the Ministry of Religious Affairs is leading to the recovery of the religious distribution of the multi-party view of our country. The eradication of past belief disputes should be with the social consensus, not police measures. Here, in the country where 99 per cent of the population is Muslim, there are major tasks for the presidency of the Religious Affairs. In our culture, religious leaders are trusted, believed, and respected. The men of the religion are upright, and they speak according to what our Lord has commanded His servants, and they are admonished. With these identities, religious leaders resolve micro-controversies that don't become too public in society, remove unrest, and remove resentments. The Ministry of Religious Affairs must have an unbiased and unbiased attitude toward its staff. In accordance with the principle of secularism written in our own acquish and the Constitution, the chairman of the Ministry of Religious Affairs works for the purposes of national solidarity and integration. It must be remembered and done, but it's hard to say that it works today. They are not excluded from all political views and ideas, they are unable to provide a better service to the Turkish community. However, there is no other constitutional institution that will serve the Turkish community better. Or illegal organization in the environment of insecurity created by the President of Religious Affairs dominates society. The Ministry of Religious Affairs has 132,000 staff, but 180 religious men in Eskişehir have been missing for months. Eskişehir people have to move to other villages, other mosques. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit03spe0442par0867	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0442par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2019 Central Management Account Law Proposal. Commission? He's in position. Congressmans, the talks on the eighth round are complete. Let's move on to questions and answers. Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0443par0006	Mr. Oktay said in his speech: "Because the opposition doesn't understand, I'm telling people. I'm saying, because the power doesn't understand, I'm telling our people so that they can hear: Why didn't President Erdoğan stop threatening Trump with his assets, and why didn't we hear him? Two: Who made 128 billion dollars sold under your win-win principle? Who earned $192 billion interest paid to loan sharks in London over the past 18 years? Three: How can you claim that we are a separate forces and a democratic state where there is a president who appoints the Supreme Court and the high judiciary directly or indirectly? And finally, in the 1940s, you spoke of one man. He spent his life on the front lines for the independence of the country, and he learned the news of his son's death months after coming back from the front, and he didn't get us into World War II with his diploma, and I condemn you for the way you teased Ismet Inönul, which you owe the seat to.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0444par0010	Mr. Nice...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0445par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. Will you extend the working time of the State of Emergency Commission, which expires on January 23rd, despite the recent ECHR decision in Turkey, which condemns the decisions made by local courts co-directed by the State of Emergency Commission? Do you intend to dismiss the State of Emergency Commission, which has decided to reject 88%? The names to participate in mainstream media programmes have been released to the public where the issues to discuss. Finally, the list of journalists Smurf Payz who will not participate in the programmes has been sent from the Ankara diplomatic mission. Is it true that a list like this was sent to media channels? Who makes these lists, why? If Turkey has a budget for armed groups in Syria from the Defence Industry Presidency, how much has it been spent on which structure? In war policies, the majority of the budget is spent together in the war industry. How much funds were earmarked for S-400, F-16, SIHA, drones in 2020? In 2020, a laborer who worked for minimum wage...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0446par0017	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0447par0018	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Vice President, the people of Hatay are dying of corona. Question 1: Will you quarantine Hatay Province? 2) Will you take Hatay province to quarantine? 3) Will you quarantine Hatay Province? 4) Will you declare quarantine in Hatay? 5) Why not quarantine Hatay Province? 6) Do you know that the people of Hatay are dying of corona? 7) Do you consider the people of Hatay who died? 8) If you are concerned about the people of Hatay, why not take precautions? 9) What other expressions do you want me to use to describe the problem? 10) Mr. President, will the people of Hatay say, "We will not surrender you to the court, we will quarantine Hatay." 11) Who's paying for the tank paletin workers, their salary, the Department of National Defense or the BMC? Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0448par0032	Mr. Chepni...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0449par0033	The Ministry of Religious Affairs spends its entire community's budget on just one part, while the others are also subjected to systematic assimilation through this budget. Despite the decisions of the ECHR and the State Department, the mosques that the Alekis consider a sanctuary are not considered a temple. The same is true of individuals who are considered diseased, whose colors are banned, lynched, LGBT+ individuals. We ask: Is it lawful for you to receive taxes from what you do not see? Do you intend to give up these human-criminal policies and apologize?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0448par0034	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0450par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I wish that the budget of the National Intelligence Agency, the National Security Council, the Secretary General of the National Security Board, the President of Religious Affairs, the President of State Archives, the President of Strategy and Budget, the President of Communication, the Defence Industry, should be good for our country, our nation, and our institutions. I'd like to thank our Vice President, Mr Fuat Oktay, for the budget presentations of the Plan and Budget Commission and the General Assembly. I have some questions about social services. In 2021, how much did you save for welfare and services? What has been the increase in services for disabled persons? Thank you, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0451par0041	Mr. Ersoy...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0452par0042	Thank you, Mr. President. We have various types of statuses, such as staffed, contractual, proxy, honorary, temporary. Their jobs are the same, but their salary, rights, and resources are different from the employees who do the same work within the institution. The deputy and the imam-hatip working at the temporary status and the muezzin trustees and the teachers who work as trustees and honoraries are waiting to be recruited. Is there any study of resolving these problems? Local and national drones, IKULs, IHALs, THAK helicopters, FIRTINA obuses, ships and armored vehicles swell our hearts. We congratulate everyone who's passed the job, thank you, thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0453par0045	Mr. Gergerlioğlu...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0454par0046	Mr. Fuat Oktay, why do you deny it? Our deputies asked you today about the murdered Kurds, the thousands of unsolveds, why don't you answer them, deny them? We asked about hundreds of people who were kidnapped and tortured. You said there was no such crime in the MIT Act. But we call you to obey the law, to obey the law, to obey the Constitution. Look, I'm showing you this photo of Mr. Fuat Oktay, and look, I'm showing you a picture of Yusuf Wise Bronzek, who's been kidnapped for five hundred days, why don't you look? You're not looking at it with a guilty conscience? A person has been kidnapped in the Republic of Turkey for five hundred days, why is there no information about this person? There can't be such a scandal. Why do people shut up about it? Last time I asked you, you took to the polemical for the answer to this, and the criminal organization...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0453par0050	Mr. Kenanoglu...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0455par0051	The Ministry of Religious Affairs has proved it enough with the sword and the fetish of the government, which was founded to take over religion and control society over religion and to this side of the community, which the authorities have waved to their politics. There is an unchanging fact of the Religion from the founding of the Republic to which power changes, which is its policy of assimilation for the faiths and members of the Hanefi Islamic faith. On the one hand, there is no compulsion. On the other hand, we are well aware of the Diyaneti, who has taken priority over the mosques of Alevi, when there are mosques in Alevi villages, when Hanefi Muslim villages have a lack of religious authority. The world table and the public's exit, rhetoric, and practice of antiquated Muslims also revealed the follies of dianetin in that neighborhood. Dianet, a modern - day representative of Emevi Islam, the ancestor of political Islamists, is a burden to society, a waste and a guardianship institution. It's been shut down...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0453par0054	Mr. Aycan...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0456par0055	Mr. President, I'd like to ask Mr. Vice President: planning is activity, efficiency. We support strategic plans for development targets. One component of development plans is the planning of manpower. It is the nature of production to grow and provide the necessary number of qualified manpower and employment. Also, using human resources correctly is important to prevent waste. What are the jobs needed in Turkey and the number of them? What are the extra jobs? Is the NGO being contacted about this? According to this, are the schedules being adjusted? In public institutions, how do you plan public personnel? In 2021, how many employees will be taken to public institutions? What is the distribution of them according to professions and provinces? Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0453par0057	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0457par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Vice President, in 60 minutes of your first-day presentation, you have arrived in the last 30 seconds of your time, and today you don't understand." You said. What did you tell him? What don't we understand? My second question: As we predicted, the political and economic costs of the arbitrary practices of the presidential government system are increasing day by day. With the decrees issued, public resources are unfortunately being pursued by environments close to political power. Here is the latest example of the President's decision dated December 3rd, and some areas in Istanbul Silivri. The Maxicells Pharmaceutical Company, owned by the Sandzak family. What reasons have the Silivri people been considered and how will the public benefit here when this special allocation is being taken away from the agenda of Parliament? Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0458par0062	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0459par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. The minimum wage is $2.324, and the hunger limit is 3,000 liras, and the poverty limit is at $11,000. The presidential budget of 2021 is 4 quadrillion euros per day, 10 million 958 thousand liras per day. The palace is full, the citizen is hungry. A citizen needs dry bread when the palace doesn't compromise the splendour. It is not your power to eat dry bread, but they are not hungry. You make fun of them. I assure you, the citizens whose minds you mock will bury you in the chest in the first election. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0460par0066	Now, I'll leave it to you to make it work. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0461par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to start with the last question or comment, the way you look down on citizens. We never look down on our citizens; on the contrary, we consider ourselves servants to them. Since both our citizens and our people know it, they've given us authority for 19 years, and they'll continue to give it to us. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Why do you leave the tank palette to the last second? I'll start with him, if you'll excuse me. In particular, again, there were no tanks in the past eight months. The incident was... I said that in my speech, but why was BMC given the operation of care repair facilities? It was actually in the past as well as in the past questions. Now, BMC is a Turkish company, not a foreign company. There's a partnership; there's a partnership, a stranger has a shareholder, but a Turkish company, like any other company, needs to be known. A Turkish company with a minority stake in the BMC, Qatar investment company, is also useful to know, as are some of the other defence industries with American, British, German, Chinese partners at certain rates. The Tank Palette Factory, the palette, the factory, the price, the land, the building, and the machines, all of it, is a number that doesn't actually have, in fact, 250 million dollars; you mentioned it as a sum of $20 billion, and Mr. Kilicdaroglu mentioned it in different places. Once again, I'd like to express that this is the wrong calculation. The factory's ownership is to remain in our Ministry of National Defense -- and our National Defence Minister has made this statement -- BMC has been given a 25-year cycle of business, so its ownership is not handed over, it's just a business era. In addition to making the facilities more efficient, less cost-effective by the private sector and making the necessary additional investments, the production of tanks -- in addition to the production line -- which is built from scratch -- is given the right to operate, but not to sell.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0462par0073	Who pays the wages?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0461par0074	Sir?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0462par0075	Salaries?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0461par0076	So again, workers in Arifija are employees of the National Ministry of Defence, so payments are being billed to the interested firm, so the interested firm has paid.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0462par0077	So the National Defense Department is paying for it, and you're saying it's for the...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0461par0078	Now, on the other side, I go on, Beşiktaş.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0462par0079	We didn't get the answer, sir. The State Department of Defense is paying and billing the company?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0461par0080	The company pays the bill for this, so the company normally pays for the work they do, the company pays for it, of course, like all companies.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0462par0081	So the National Department of Defense pays the salary, right, sir?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0461par0082	Since we're on a deadline, we can continue later if you'd like.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0462par0083	I understand, sir. Over.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0461par0084	You said I wasn't responding to the terrorist attack on Beşiktaş, so I'll answer that again. That was Mr. Kilicdaroglu's question again. I remember answering that day. Well, we didn't say that. You said that. So once again, I remind you that when we look at the legal dimension of our martyrs who died because of their mission to fight terrorism or terrorism, it is considered a liability. The rights holders of the duty-designate public official are tied to the monthly service, no less than the month of his current counterpart. According to this, the martyr is given $6,150 in the same frame as the police or our soldier. On the other hand, if the deceased is a police officer, a public official, or a military staff, in the field of terrorism, the minimum is $6,150, and on the other hand, there are additional rights to our fellow martyrs' disability. Again, we give TSK members and security guards who have lost their lives within the scope of duty and disability 2 to those who have lost their lives to those who have lost their property 1 to the relatives of the other public officials who have lost their lives or to those who have lost their property 1 to those who have lost their lives due to terrorist acts, 1 to those who have lost their lives to the relatives. Again, there are additional rights. A total of 49 different opportunities are offered to our martyrs, to our citizens, to public housing loans, educational aid, free travel cards, 40 per cent reduction in electricity, 50 per cent reduction in water and other topics, and most of them are opportunities given to our fellow martyrs and veterans in our time. As for Beşiktaş, our brother Berkay Akbaş, who died in the terrorist attack, at the scene, our brother is not a public staff member, not a public staff member, but a civilian who died at the scene of the terrorist attack. We're not leaving the relatives of these citizens alone again, and this is the first time they've been given compensation in 2004. And as of today -- I don't have it in my notes -- I think it's about 54,000 today, and I think I know that there's been a compensation payment of around 33,000 dollars to our citizens and to their family, as well as to the value of that day.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0462par0086	It's not paid.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0461par0087	And as for the remaining salary size -- this is the legislation passed in 2012 -- so there's a wife, children, parents, there's a salary payment for sharing at certain rates -- to be shared with their heirs -- and there's a salary payment of $1,526. Again, the family of this brother was paid the same amount of compensation as the mother and the father's inheritance, and 33,620 lira was paid the same. There's a question about the Central Bank, and I'm also interested in the reserves of currency -- the total international reserves, 46.4 billion in gold reserves, 40.3 billion in gold reserves, are at 86.6 billion dollars today, and that's enough to meet our short-term obligations. There was a question about social welfare, but before that we asked you again about the deaths, why didn't you answer? The subject of the shooting in the air... is that our security forces, or soldiers, were killed in the form of shooting and so forth, are highly inappropriate accusations and slander.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0463par0090	People are dying, people!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0461par0091	If you want to see something about deaths, I'll tell you. So I'll tell you what our security forces are doing, and I'll tell you where they're firing, and I'll give you the numbers, and you'll know where they're firing. From January 22, 1987 to today, massacres are being carried out, all for civilians, all for civilians. In these massacres, 5,706 civilians die, 11.351 of our citizens are injured. What are our security forces doing? Our security forces, here, are doing this; you're asking, our security forces don't go to the picnic maker and shoot. Here, if you'd like to see the pictures, 94, Tunceli, Mazzirt Darıkent County massacre.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0464par0094	94?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0461par0095	Yes, you're talking about the 90s...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0465par0096	We're talking 2020. We're talking 2019.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0461par0097	...and you saw there that in the '90s we brought to justice again in the 2000s.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0466par0099	Look at 2020, 2020.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0461par0100	And look, it's coming from 93, it's coming from now on.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0467par0101	You were in '94?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0461par0102	The massacre of Chat Yavi, here are the pictures... Security forces are fighting them, not shooting at the air.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0468par0103	Don't demagogue!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0461par0104	Let me continue... It's not demagogy, look, it's... I'm showing you pictures of them and I'm telling you their documents.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0469par0107	Well, Roboski was in your time, so why are you going to 94? Tell me about Roboski!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0461par0108	You don't like it? Is your conscience aching?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0470par0109	What kind of talk is that? What do you mean, you don't like it?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0469par0110	Tell me about Roboski!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0461par0111	I don't see any conscience in you, but I'll show you anyway. (KAK PARTY APPLAUSE; HDP rows Noise) The Bahçasaray massacre, please...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0470par0112	That's no way to say it!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0461par0113	If you'd like, let's continue if we have time.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0471par0114	Answer our questions, don't tell us stories! You weren't there in '94.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0461par0115	There are children here, there are women, there are old people, there are children with no weapons, here's the boy.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0471par0117	Well, do you have an answer?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0461par0118	Here you are, the massacre of the village of Seki...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0471par0119	Yes, sing Roboski, sing Roboski!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0461par0120	Did you see who he was fighting, our security forces, our soldiers and our police? If you'd like me to continue, the Sunday massacre, Kahramanmarash, please...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0471par0123	Tell me about Hakkari, Mr. President. Tell me about Hakkari. Tell me about the fortune of Turgut. Tell me about Osman Shiban. Why are you going to 94? Tell me about Roboski! Tell me about Cemile Arakga. Do you have any answers? No!
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0461par0124	We can increase these, I can bring them by today, if you want. The massacre of Taşköy; the massacre of the village of Pınarcık; I will continue as long as you like. [[Noises from HDP rows]] Our security forces don't fire on the air, we don't fire on civilians; we said we'd be with civilians and the oppressed, we're against the terrorist organization, and we'll continue to be against it.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0472par0129	Yeah, yeah, yeah! Those who did not have the answer went up to the 90s, and lived to the 90s.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0473par0130	Well, thank you, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0461par0131	If you give me time, I'll continue.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0474par0132	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0473par0133	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0474par0136	The money for Berkay Akbaş has been paid. You just said, 33 billion lira... his father says on the phone, no, it hasn't been paid. If you want, I'll let him talk to his father, and he says he's definitely not paid, that no deal has been made.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0475par0137	What do you mean, compensation?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0474par0138	Yeah.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0475par0139	He has the right to be compensated, and he has the right to be compensated.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0474par0140	Now, it's paid. You said, sir, 33 billion dollars has been paid. You said.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0476par0141	You said, "It's paid." You said, "It's paid."
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0475par0142	Guys, that's his right.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0477par0143	You didn't pay for it.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0478par0144	You just said it was paid. Just like this court, Mr. Vice President. My respects.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0479par0146	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0480par0147	The one who came to me... Mr. President, may I answer that question?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0481par0149	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0482par0150	Mr. Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0481par0152	Mr. President, we reject this style, this method and this language. He's offering a View program from Anatolia, which he says now is the same as in the 90s, and he says, "Don't you like it?" (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) We said it's a arrogance, it rejects arrogance, it's an act of arrogance. He denies the will of the people. He's trying to humiliate us MPs, but there's one thing he doesn't realize, there's a document on everything we say, and he can't prove anything by bringing those photos. Our oratories have talked to each and every one of us, given a crime scene, the governor's office statement, the police statement, the prosecution's investigation, the court's verdicts, so don't let him come to us and make a scene. I give you three names: Özcan Erbas, 16, killed on his way to a picnic, followed by a single bullet, and this is again, in the governor's statement.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0482par0154	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0481par0155	All the bullets that shoot the Kurds either bounce or fire in the air. I can get you 50 governor's statements. Mr. Vice President isn't here to mock us, he's mocking the public, he's mocking the public. What do you think the mother of Ozcan Erbaş is feeling right now?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0483par0156	How do our martyr mothers feel?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0481par0157	33 Roboski boys were killed with fighter planes, how do their parents feel? He didn't admit to any murders, we can't accept that. We've told you so many times here, we've told you about the Sheralite Dereli, we've told you about the Servet Turgut, we've told you about Ceylan Önkol, we've told Uður Kaymaz, there's too much murder that we can't finish by counting; this is how you reject all your speeches... all your talks are baseless and lies and lies.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0484par0159	Mr. President, Mr. President... 1) presidential Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Central Management Final Account for the presidency 2019 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2021 Central Management Budget 2) National Intelligence Agency Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2021 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board Secretary General 2019 Central Management Terms C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget of 2021 2) The Central Management Final Account for the President of Religious Affairs 2019 1) President of State Archives 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Archives Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget of 2021 2) Central Management Final Account for the Executive Board of National Palaces 2019 1) Strategy and Budget President 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Communication Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account THE PRESIDENT OF THE SURVIVATION [[Continue]] 1) Defence Industry Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Defence Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2019
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0485par0194	Now, in turn, in the matter of the budgets and certain accounts of public administrations in the eighth round, I shall have their budgets read separately, their precise accounts, and submit them to your votes.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0484par0195	But Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0485par0196	Talk to Mr. Ozkoch first, brother.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0486par0197	Mr. President, I have to take this.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0484par0198	Mr. President, I've been here since 11:00.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0485par0199	I submit to your votes that the presidency be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: Those who don't... Sustained.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0484par0200	I came here to ask you a question, not just to file a report.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0485par0201	Would you excuse me?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0484par0202	Mr. President, even though I asked the question in third place... I asked about the people of Hatay, who had turned into Wuhan of China, and I asked an important question. I want his answer! But it was a very important question. People are dying in Hatay, Mr. President. I'll buy it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0485par0203	I'm reading the general sum: 1) presidential Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 4,039,453,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the presidency was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the presidency in 2019 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Final Account for Central Management Budget for the Presidential 2019 Total allowance 4.032.557.335.16 Budget Expenses 3.919,821,641,61 Canceled Fund 112,735,693,55 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the presidency were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the head of the National Intelligence Agency will be transferred to the central management budget for 2021: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 2,628,749.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of 2021 of the head of the National Intelligence Agency has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the head of the National Intelligence Agency shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2019: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) National Intelligence Agency Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 2,401,444.198,47 Budget Expenses 2,400.464.173.33 Cancelled Payment 980.025,14 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 135,044,87 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the National Intelligence Agency's presidency were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Secretary General of the National Security Board shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: Those who don't... Sustained. NEIGHBORIAL SECURITY PRODUCTION 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 38.097,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2021 of the Secretary General of the National Security Board has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Secretary General of the National Security Board's Central Administration account of 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) National Security Board Secretary General 2019 Central Management Terms Total Payment 32.341.000.00 Budget Expenses 31.391.385.16 Canceled Fund 949.614.84 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the National Security Board's Secretary General in 2019 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the President of Religious Affairs shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 1) The National Management Budget of 2021 Gen. TOPLAM 12.977.926,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of 2021 of the Ministry of Religious Affairs has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the President of the Religious Affairs of 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Central Management Final Account for the President of Religious Affairs 2019 Total allowance is 10.237.198,444,58 Budget Expenses 10,211,680,416,34 Emancipation Expenses 121,467,98 Canceled Fund 17.867.684.43 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 7,771,811,79 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the Ministry of Religious Affairs were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the State Archives President shall be transferred to the central management budget for 2021: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) President of State Archives 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 172.663,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of 2021 of the State Archives Presidency has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the State Archives presidency of 2019 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) State Archives Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account Total Payment 119,008,173,00 Budget Expenses 99.359.097.13 Canceled Fund 19,649,075,87 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the State Archives presidency were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the president of the National Courts shall be transferred to the central management budget for 2021: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) The Central Management Budget of 2021 General TOPLAM 230,408,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of 2021 was adopted. I submit to your votes that the head of the National Palace Administration of 2019 will be transferred to the section of the final account of the central administration in the year 2019: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Central Management Final Account for the Executive Board of National Palaces 2019 Total Payment 211.692.979.49 Budget Expenses 136.041.735.51 Canceled allowance 74,855,600,03 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 795,643,95 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the National Palace Administration were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the strategy and budget chairmanship will be transferred to the central management budget for 2021, those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) Strategy and Budget President 2021 Central Management Budget GENEL TOPLAM 10.121.775,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget for 2021 of the strategy and budget presidency has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the President of Strategy and Budget in 2019 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Strategy and Budget President 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 883.327.206.00 Budget Expenses 833.472.921.33 Cancelled Fund 49,854,284,67 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the strategy and budget presidency were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Management budget for the year 2021 of the communications presidency will be adopted by those who do not accept... those who do not. 1) Communication Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 422,754,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of 2021 of the Communication Presidency has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Communication Presidency in 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Communication Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 395.531.000.00 Budget Expenses 377.799.517.40 Canceled Fund 17.731.482.60 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Communication Presidency were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the defence industrial presidency be transferred to the central management budget for 2021: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Defence Industry Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 120.063,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 120.063,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The central management budget of the Defence Industry Presidency was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the Defence Industry Presidency of 2019 be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Defence Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 Total allowance 107,933,413,13 Budget Expenses 106,967,352,16 Cancelled Fund 966.060,97 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 87,822,000.00 Collection 121,063,689,66 Ret and Returns 1,443.08 Net Collection 121,062.246,58 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Defence Industry Presidency were adopted in 2019. Congressmans, this way, the budgets and certain accounts of public administrations in the eighth round have been accepted, and I wish them well. The eighth round of talks is complete. In this way, the Central Management Budget of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019 were completed with the budgets and precise accounts of the public administrations, which included the 1st Articles of the Central Accounting Law of 2019, as well as the negotiations of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal for 2021 on income and financing. Now, in accordance with the programme, we will discuss the provisions of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal in 2021, respectively, and vote. In 2021, after I have re-read the first article on the cost budget of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal, I will submit it to your votes. 2021 CENTER REPLICATION OF BLOOD Expenses, Arrives, Financing and Balance MADDE 1- (1) Added to Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 10/12/2003, as shown in the tablet marked "A" (a); A) (1,328,254.386,000 Turkish liras for public administrations under the general budget on the ruler number I B) (II) private budgetary administrations have 119,877,971.000 Turkish liras, C) (III) is an 8.436.256,000 Turkish lira for regulator and auditory institutions on the table. The grant is granted. I submit the first article to your votes, along with the ruler, which was previously approved: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm re-reading Article 2 of the income budget. MADDE 2- (1) Influences: As shown in the tablet marked "B," it is added to Law 5018; A) (I) The income of the general budget on the ruler is 1,082,029,040.000 Turkish liras, B) (II) private budgetary administrations have a total of $11,110,691.000 Turkish liras, including $14,546,924,000 Turkish dollars in income, 104,563,767,000 Turkish liras as treasury assistance, and a total of $11,110,691,000 Turkish liras. C) (III) The income of regulator and auditory institutions on the table is 8,267,484,000 Turkish liras, $168,772,000 Turkish liras, totalling $8,436,256,000 Turkish liras, is estimated to be. (2) Financing: The net financing of special budgetary administrations on the table No. 5018 (II), as shown in these laws (F), has been estimated to be 240,515,000 Turkish liras. Now, I'm going to make you read the chapters of the ruler, which is bound to the 2nd article, and I'm going to put them to your separate votes: 01 Tax revenues 1,058,733,147,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Attempted and Property Influences 57,975,453.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Influences With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 75,333,582,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Capital Funds 13.080.399.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Collections 1,405,743.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Total Budget Profits 1,220,351,915,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Ret and Returns (-) 138,322,875,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Net Budget Profits 1,082.029.040.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit the 2nd article to your votes, along with the extra ruler accepted: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. The difference between the sum of the first part of Article 3-1 (a) of Article 1 (a) and the sum of estimated incomes (a) in the first part of Article 2 (a) is met with clear debt. On behalf of the well-advised group, Mersin MP Zeki Hakan Sıdalı. Here you go, Mr. Sedal.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0487par0421	Mr. President, we're dealing with a current deficit, budget deficit, investments, central bank reserves, state institutions' debt and debt, financial situation, public banks' debt, unemployment figures, which, unfortunately, we're dealing with the budget back to 2000. If you want sustainable economic stability, the current is at the top of the key indicators. It's impossible to use economic, stability and sustainability in the same sentence in this period of your power. Why? The economy is bad. And the changes in current transactions are indicators of the economy's progress because it determines the shape of economic decisions and expectations. This is the economic monster -- for those who understand economics -- when the GDP is at a very high level. You remember the inflation monster in the paper before 2000. Besides, his role in economic crises would justify that analogy. Cari is always dangerous on the loose, but when does she become a real pain in the ass? Money goes to waste, not investment. We can figure that out by looking at the growth numbers, and if the current is increasing together, you can close the gap. The debt is the whip of the man. We say, but if resources go to waste like today, if they go to planes and fancy buildings, to luxury consumption, your debt will increase, your income will fall, your income will fall, you will enter a dead end. Come, let's see, what have we done with these resources? For example, has Turkey become a middle-tech country? Is the add-ons going to cover our deficit? The entire population of over a million cities has been hit by cheap public transportation subways? Our transportation costs have dropped, and it's able to save and consume some of the surplus of the citizen's budget? We're out of Chandar port, Mersin Main Container Harbor, Port of Filyos, to boost our exports, to strengthen our logistical infrastructure? Are we able to pay off the money around here? Are there solutions in the East, Southeast Anatolia, and the Black Sea to integrate global markets? We've opened up new fields to production? Is Çukurova Airport finished with the Middle East, Africa, Europe, to increase our rapid exports? Have we renovated our coster fleet back to the snake story? Have we increased our domestic technology use rate in energy, manufacturing industry? Did we become more competitive using more efficient energy? Have we lost energy dependency abroad? In agriculture, we use climate, water, intelligent agricultural technologies? Did we cross a small country like the Netherlands in agricultural exports? Did we turn into an export center by bringing our unusable agricultural fields into agriculture? I passed that, did our imports of agriculture drop? We got our farmer technology? Did we lower their costs and increase our competitiveness? Did we raise their direct payment to reduce their debt? Did we at least take care of your debts? No, none of this happened. With your more externally dependent energy policy and construction-based perspective, Turkey has been stuck in debt, concrete, asphalt, fossil fuels, using the source inefficient. We've increased inflation and unemployment, we've blown the budget deficit, we've loaned out public banks, and we've driven the exchange rate insane. As the manufacturer feared most, one day it was $8.5, and the next day it was $7.5. And of course, we gave 135 billion to the interest lobby. Between interest and current, scorpion and frog have a famous relationship. Its savings are low, its consumption is afforded by foreign resources for investments in high countries. You set up a Ponzi scheme, you borrow, you increase imports, you create artificial prosperity, and you pay off the debt with debt until you can't find the resources. That's exactly what happened today. When we rely on your power, no one lends you any more, and luckily no one lends you any more, or the power that doesn't focus on development will lead us to a greater debt, and when we come to power, we will squander resources for development. The scorpion has done its nature, and the Ponzi scheme is over. Honourable lawmakers, let's examine the topics that increase the current deficit. Foreign trade deficit, for example. In 2019, a total of 31 billion dollars in foreign trade deficits, we give to Asian countries, which are now becoming a regional economic co-operation, almost 28 billion dollars will go up even higher if India is included. So we're giving the European Union, where democracy, free market, legal order is a priority in foreign trade, the cradle of illiberal governance to Asia, and we're getting this deficit from the Western interest lobby; we're getting into a bilateral clamp. It's not sustainable. That's what happens when production isn't valuable and exports are dependent on imports. Meanwhile, market regulations are being organised in the West, which will affect global trade closely. As the European Union becomes a competitive, green, digital economy with the Green Covenant, it focuss on carbon tax regulations at the border to protect its market. What are we doing? Nothing. There's a clamp here, and it's gonna get us even tighter soon. If we want to manage our Cari deficit, we can't be indifferent to the world's developments. Either we make democratic, legal, and green arrangements predicted by the European Union, where we're doing half our exports, or we try to get into Asia, where we have a lot of imports with logistics and costs. It is the power's responsibility to make this decision quickly and take proactive measures because we cannot go in the same car to the right and to the left. Dear lawmakers, another element of our current deficit is our energy dependency on the outside. It's not really an obligation to power, it's a political choice because the AK PARTY is transferring capital to its elite through energy policy. Instead of increasing energy efficiency, managing energy, reducing energy per capita density, HES is unfortunately unable to make the efficient return of energy investments by installing thermal plants that the world has abandoned. The transportation policy is also filled with applications that increase the current deficit in energy. After the EC PARTY came to power, it reduced its share of transport, while public transportation declined, leading the citizen to use its own vehicle. Of course, the construction of bridges and roads that would be overpriced, which would be paid, even if they didn't get through with these tools. Fossil fuel will also increase the current deficit, and you will also spend 34 billion dollars in the budget, but it's not important to you, it's the VAT, the VAT, the MTV, that's what's important to you. After all, the government, which collects 73 per cent of its income from indirect taxes, has no time to think about the public's pocket, its treasure and its KCI investors. That's exactly why it's a political choice, not a current obligation. You can maintain the care deficit with the right management. For this, energy should be free of external dependency, increase exports and reduce imports, reduce foreign trade deficits, encourage production of raw materials and intermediaries within the country, try to attract new foreign investors, encourage them to re-invest here instead of transferring profits from foreign investors operating in the country. For all of this, stable political policy is essential. In a growing economy, the current deficit can be argued to be natural, but in a booming budget like ours, the current is a major problem. When we say that we're staying away from unaccounted-for steps with heavy bills for our country, it's not going to be a penny in the nation's pockets. The bridges and highways, which have been guaranteed by means of vehicles and patients, have become the black hole of the budget. I suppose you mean, if you get the guarantee numbers, you won't get a penny out of the government's safe. Because the citizen, even if the guarantees are reached, will pay double the cost on those roads. The citizen owns the state, and remember, every penny that comes out of his pocket is out of the government's pocket. This budget, in our eyes, is a budget to return before the 2000s, with no goals, hopes for development extinguished, in a rush to save the day. But history will not forget, nor will a poor-tested citizen forgive these days, nor will he forgive them. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0488par0434	Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Taytak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Taytak.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0489par0437	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the 3rd article of the 2021-Year Centre Management Budget Law Proposal, titled "The Denge." I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, the budget is the first condition of a state's democratic quality, and through parliament, it is one of the tools to oversee government for the nation. The budget must grasp social facts and respond to the Turkish nation's expectations. Our budget budget budget for 2021 is estimated at 1 trillion 388.1 billion, budget revenues are estimated at 1 trillion 101.1 billion, budget deficits are estimated at $245 billion. Precious lawmakers have fought many threats from Syria to Libya, from the Aegean to the Eastern Mediterranean, from the Middle East to the Caucasus in 2020, especially the outbreak of Covid-19, natural disasters, economic attacks. With the outbreak of Covid-19, many sectors in the country's economy have suffered severe damage, with imports and exports stopping, the economy has not been balanced. In the year 2020, 151 of our citizens died -- depressions, floods, avalanches, the forests burned by the PKK -- was a year of disaster. Our institutions have mobilized all units, fighting hard to heal the wounds. In addition to these developments, our state is in a fierce struggle to secure our national support in cross-border operations, counter-terrorism, domestic weapons, drones, seismic research ships, and fleets, designed to protect our internal and external security. The nationalist Movement Party will continue to be on the side of the nation and the state today, with no preconditions in the fight against terrorism with the spirit of the Cumhur Alliance, against international issues, against domestic and external security threats. On this occasion, I wish all of our martyrs who have sacrificed their lives for this land, the grace of God, the health and peace of life to our veterans. Dear MPs, our province of Afyonkarahisar is a land with many sectors from thermal hotels to marble industry, agriculture to animalism, health tourism to historical tourism, the capital of history, thermalin, flavor and marble, where the Turkish nation's fate has changed in our struggle for salvation and the republic has been won. The main source of income in the province of Afyonkarahisar is agriculture and livestock. Our province is third in the production of potatoes in Turkey, but our manufacturers' storage spaces are very limited. Our farmers' profits are low when their sales coincide with a period of surplus demand. Therefore, as in the village of Akin from the Ark, natural storage spaces should be created in our districts of Shuhut and Dinar. Afyonkarahisar lands are the most important breeding ground in Turkey for poppy production. Plantation quotas must be increased, surely, for the harvest of hash produced in our districts of Dinar, Arkuklı and Bolvadin. Dear lawmakers, one of the other agricultural products raised in our province is Napoleonian cherry. About 30,000 tons were exported this year, and our country received $1 billion in export revenues. The region does not have sufficient fruit collection and packaging facilities. The establishment of these facilities will increase exports from our province as well as have a positive impact on employment. Our province of Afyonkarahisar has an important 25 per cent share in the production of eggs in our country. The cost of corn, soybeans, soybeans for sunflowers, the failure of the ground crop office to apply base prices, the price of the base is $1.35, the price of the free market is up to $2.00, the price of the soy is up from $380 to $680, the licensed storage costs, the currencies, even though the price of eggs has increased, caused the manufacturers to lose 20 percent in 2020. The solution requires that raw matter costs become sustainable. In addition to livestock, it would be helpful to establish breeding farms, such as Agriculture Credit Co-ops, especially to satisfy the need for quality breeding and improve the quality of the pack. It would be helpful for our needy citizens living in villages to provide small animals with a grant from our government. Dear lawmakers, we have shared our project at the agricultural high school for employment and development, which we think will contribute to the region and country animalism in general, with 100 people in our province who have a minimum capacity for animalism, plant production, greenhousery and fruitism, our farm education centre project, our 300 major model sheep shelter project that will produce superior breeding. Hopefully, it's our wish that it will happen in the coming hours. Among other things, the long-term restructuring of our farmers' debt by delaying their inequities due to their debt to banks and the Agricultural Loan Cooperates will allow our farmer to breathe. Dear lawmakers, it is important to increase and review KOSGEB support and other incentive systems in order for growth speeds to take place in 2020. Out of the centre of Afyonkarahisar, Iscehisar, Chestılı, Bolvadin, Dinar and the last amount of support given to our residents is 8m TLK with representatives of Sinanpaşa KOSGEB district. The opening of our county diplomatic missions is important for our entrepreneurs to receive the necessary preliminary information in the district and to get rid of the time burden. Thank you for your support, Cevahir Uzkurt Bey and my executive friends. I also demand that KOSGEB support be increased for our province of Afyonkarahisar. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the 2021 budget to be good for our country and our nation, the Veterans Assembly and your grand delegation.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0490par0453	Thank you, Mr. Taytak. Mardin MP Pero Dundar is on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group who want to speak on the matter.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0491par0456	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party on Article 3 of the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I'd like to start by saying that this budget in particular is not a public budget. There are no women, no children, no workers, no workers in this budget. This budget is the budget of the palace and its supporters. Look, there's a pandemic process going on all over the world. The economic crisis and poverty that existed along with the pandemic process deepened. Today more than 400,000 tradesmen in the country closed their doors. Small tradesmen from all sides, especially Mardin, are almost dead. It's only because of your policies that protect the investor, not the tradesman for the Rant. You saw the pandemic process as a blessing, and you made people into AKP members under the name of social aid. There are very clear examples of this, especially in Mardin and Van. Look, Mardin Artuklu HDP MP has been appointed a member of the AKP without being asked without being informed. Again, women and children pay the harshest bill of poverty and crisis. In the process, women are at the top of the most layoffs. Stay in the house. Violence against women has increased dramatically, along with calls. Look, 10 women were murdered in Mardin alone in ten months. We know very well that your male-dominated power has no problem fighting women's violence, increasing women's employment, but you should know that women will never give up their rights or their rights. Dear friends, in this budget we say no workers, workers, farmers. See, DEDAŞ has been an electrical provider in many cities, especially Mardin, since 2013. In recent years, DEADAS has become a problem for the locals. You know, when the President of the Diet went out to pray for rain, the people went out to pray for electricity yesterday in Urbana, and the water piled up in the dam and then turned into energy, and maybe it turned into electricity. I mean, we'd like to point that out. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Without observing the pandemic process, the debt was justified and the electricity was cut, and the people were persecuted. We've explained it over and over on this bench, bringing it up with questions and research proposals. The farmer's first products were burned, and we said if there was no precaution, the second products would burn. And the result is that no crops were produced in 60 percent of the fields, and due to insufficient irrigation, efficiency fell by 20 percent and farmers were victimised. Do you care? Of course not. Again, long-term blackouts have also affected remote training, which is essential to pandemic conditions. This deepens the inequality that exists between regions of education. Look, Mardin and its districts have had very little access to the EBA. No Internet, no electricity, no networks, no smartphones in people's homes, let alone homes. As the people of Mardin live through this persecution, DEDAŞ County Director Mehmet Bulut is arrested for corruption. Mehmet Bulut has been released on the basis of the effective law of regret, paying 1,700,000 TL. I really want to ask: How can a civil servant afford such a large sum, or do the deputies here pay it? [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, corruption and corruption don't stop. Not long ago, on this bench, I would like to address those who advocate trustee policies: Why don't you talk about corruption in Mardin Metropolitan Municipality, which is under trustee administration? Why was no criminal action imposed on this person while the irregularities of the Mardin Metropolitan Municipality's previous trustee, Mustafa Yaman? were reflected in the Court reports? What was taken and what was given here is as guilty as Mustafa Yaman, and we want to make it clear once again that they must all be brought to justice. Look, right now, they're all under arrest from the General Director to the Secretary General on the grounds of corruption in Mardin Metropolitan Municipality, and they're all being named after Mustafa Yaman. However, so many arrests have been carried out, Mustafa Yaman has not been touched. I'd like to ask you, why hasn't there even been an investigation into this man who put the city in debt for millions of pounds? Who is protecting Mustafa Yaman, and who is behind him? It's not just counting the skills of trustees who exploit public resources with extortion and looting. The municipality of Kızıltepe, which is under trustee's rule, advertises the carpet pattern road every day, while roads remain in the mud at Redtepe in the smallest rain. Again, the same is the case in many districts of Mardin. Many car accidents have occurred from construction between Kızıltepe and Ceylanpinar roads. Hundreds of accidents occur here each year, especially because of the continuous patching and narrowness of the road. Once again, it shows that your trustees have no interest in serving the public as you do, and the public has no expectations of you. Dear friends, on another subject, look, the Minister of Health said in his budget speech that Mardin would build a city hospital capable of 750 beds. The state of the city hospitals is clear. Our fellow health workers have said it over and over again. Therefore, I would like to say that Mardinn needs sufficient logistical support for medical school, education research hospital, quality health care and health care, and that we will be followers of this issue to meet the demands of the people of Mardin until the end. The minister said it would be finished in 2023, and we say that we will follow it. You said "judgment reform." We've been saying that the judiciary really needs reform ever since. First of all, there should be an independent and impartial judgment, not a custody judgment. We would like to make it clear once again that this judicial reform must be made on the basis of discussions with all the parties, NGOs and public opinion that are under this roof. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) A real, fair and transparent trial must be carried out, not with unjust and arbitrary practices. There will be no judicial reform by arresting and arresting our mayors, our governors, those who greet us, those who greet us with the dawn operations, after saying "judgment reform" as a mockery of society's mind. What reforms are you talking about when you're filling our party buildings with wiretaps? Look, our arrested Mardin Co-Chair, Perihan Agaoğlu and many of our executives have not been able to make an indictment for months. Again, many of our executives prepare their indictments on false grounds and confidential witness statements. Mr. President, the precious MPs are entering the year 2021 with hunger strikes in prisons again. Prisoners in prisons suffer from severe health problems, naked search, double handcuffs, isolation. Prisons are subject to arbitrary disciplinary measures against political prisoners. Prisoners are being subjected to battery and torture by prison officials. Despite reports from the ATK, heavy patients are being held in prisons and sentenced to almost death. Look, Serdal Yıldırım, Mehmet Emin Özkan and Abdullah Turan are just a few of these heavily ill prisoners. I'm asking you here, what are you waiting for to evacuate the heavily ill prisoners? Political prisoners have been on hunger strike since 27 November against Imralı isolation and violations of rights in prisons. The demands of the prisoners must be met immediately before the hunger strikes produce far more dire consequences. Otherwise, we're all responsible for every negative that happens, especially for the power. Dear MPs, you all know that Mardin is a city of historical and cultural heritage where people of different ethnic origins, cultures and beliefs live together. It is primarily the duty of power to retain the historical and cultural fabric of the city, but we know very well how power is held in the hands of historical and cultural heritage, and how Hasankeyf. If you have a problem with ownership of historical and cultural heritage, it must be protected by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of the Church of Purple John, whose property belongs to the individual and is constantly on the Internet. Finally, just the other day, you took the rights of a citizen who had taken his life by writing work and food on his hand in Samsun. You've been involved in suicides in the area because you're a victim of war and you're having trouble with your livelihood, because you can't bring bread to your home. And whatever you do, it is upon you. It is not lawful for the people to give you this right, nor to say that you cannot pay the price of the people you steal, the people you eat, and we would like to say once again that not every bite you eat will go down your throats. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Before I finish, I want to make it clear that we do not have the approval or approval of the people for this budget that ignores the woman, who transfers capital to the side, who bless the war, who exploits labor. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0492par0477	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Fethi Açüel wants to speak on the matter. Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0493par0480	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our Veteran Assembly and our fellow citizens who are watching us with my deepest feelings. Dear lawmakers, we're going through a devastating period when the actual numbers that have been censored during the Covid-19 pandemic have just been confessed by the Ministry. From here, I give thanks to all of our hundred health workers who have worked in the fight against the plague, who have followed the trail of Refik Saydam, Nusret Fishek, Turkan Saylan. May God have mercy on our medic martyrs and our fallen citizens. I repeat our request that Covid-19 be accepted as a professional disease immediately. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, the valued lawmakers offer 2021 budgets is a bitter prescription budget, which the EC PARTI (AK PARTI)'s 18-year mismanagement, which the President himself has confessed; it is a budget of hemlock poison, even more than a bitter prescription. It's the budget of a corrupt system that puts our state, our economy, our diplomacy into custody and mortgages the future of young generations. Dear MPs, the outbreak of Covid-19 has once again shown us the importance of the social state, its discretion, and its self-satisfaction. The budget has earned the importance of health, education, technology and agriculture, but unfortunately, this budget is the budget of inadequacies. This budget is the budget for the privatisation of the evacuated institutions of Turkey with privatisations of the decentralised staff, the OSCEs and industrial facilities built by our republic. It's the budget of high interest debt that bankrupts our nation. This budget is the budget of the fetus we passed through, not the state. This budget is the budget of the palace oligarchy, which sees at least $3,100 in salary for the privileged family companies, favoured communities, minimum wage. Dear lawmakers, this budget is the budget of the Court's Court's Government, the budget of Duyümiyesi, capitalizations, new generation of multiplications, privileged contracts. This bitter budget is the budget of the centuries of bankruptcy, never a budget worthy of our nation in the 2nd century of our republic. (HPP) This budget is not the budget of the country's underprivileged citizens, but the budget of ravens who covet the taxes, sweat and bread of the nation. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, this budget is not the budget of teachers, non-assigned teachers, young KYK debtors, veterinary advisors, engineers, and graduates of administrative sciences who are waiting to be appointed, even though the Court reports say 138000 are open. This budget is not the budget of medics, teachers, public employees who expect 3,600 additional indicators. This budget is not the budget of the 2.5 million households that have been powered down, the 600,000 houses that have been cut off from natural gas. This budget is not the budget of children and families without the Internet and computers in their homes. This budget is never the budget of 2 million tradesmen. This budget is not the budget of the so-called culture, which is dishonorably supported by the workers of art. This budget is not the budget of the tractor, the field, the cow, the farmer, the forest villager, the mayors, the building managers. This budget, with my influence, is not the budget of the valued lawmakers, 9.5 million minimum wagers, 10 million unemployed, 13 million pensioners, widows and orphans, millions in need of family support. This budget is not the budget of public, right and truth. Dear MPs, this budget is the budget of those who send millions of dollars to Somalia, Tunisia, while our people wait in the breadlines. This is a budget for those who can't find a bed for our 1.5 - year - old son while carrying his ally on a private plane from Sweden. This budget is the budget of those who make luxury dorms for the TYK Foundation in New York with the INSAR Foundation's donations when our young people can't pay their debts. This budget is not the budget of workers, but of the multiplications of the single man's regime, which surrounds Turkey like an octopus, exploits its resources, and consumes its resources, and does not account to the Supreme Court and the Court. (HPP clapping in rows) "No" and "Hasenat" are the budgets of the appointed palaces for indemnity, inequity, and greed. Dear MPs, this budget is the budget of those who pursue Turkish TELEKOM to the Lebanese, Sevda Hill to the Suuds, our nation's favorite Tank Palet Factory to the Qatars. This budget, the Resurrection Ertuğrul, which you have shown to our nation, is unfortunately not the budget of Osman. It is the budget of Erdogan's family, which you have not yet dared to show on the pink screens of the pool media. (Applause from the ranks of CHP) This budget is the budget of Ertuğul and Osman Gazi, who have made Anatolia a home for us, as well as of Yunus Emri, Haci Bektas Veli, Mavlana, Pir Sultan Abdal, and above all our Founding Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, a modest, subservient, humanist ideal that condemns our citizens to poverty and debt. Dear lawmakers, Turkey, unfortunately, is experiencing a crisis of lawlessness and democracy, which has a clear conscience. The Constitutional Court's decisions are not taken by local courts. The party's leaders, journalists, intellectuals, are being held in prison illegally, trustees are being used as guardians, the mafia is being politicalized, and politics is being mobbed up. Even our 80-year-old elders are being dragged to police stations and courts because of their comments on social media, and it is incompatible with Anatolian manners and discipline. In the shadow of this unlawfulness and civilization, even our city president, Canan Kaftancıoğlu, who advocates Istanbul's right to the city, is being tried illegally. Turkey has been demoted to 107, authoritarian, unfree states in 128 countries because of these irregularities. Dear lawmakers, Turkish foreign policy in the EC PARTY's rule has lost a great deal of dignity. Today, our beloved nation of independence has been exposed to unjust and unresolved embargos. The AK PARTY was driven to a country that lost its qualified population to Western countries as a brain drain because of its competitive and adventurous policies in the Middle East. The government has not been able to use the 40 billion dollars spent for the 4 million Syrian refugees pronounced by Mr. Erdoğan himself to solve the problems of Syrian refugees or the complaints of the citizens of the Republic of Turkey. Because of its lack of insight in the refugee crisis, Turkey has transformed it into a country of trafficking of refugee women, children's marriages, prostitution, non-registership, ghettoization, human trafficking, and radical armed gangs, as if it were a buffer country in the streets. (PARTI) The perspective of full membership to the EU has been completely lost due to the wrong policies of the EC PARTY, let alone a privileged partnership, a dishonorable non-privileged partnership status, which even consents to the watch of a refugee camp. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, even in the face of this crisis and adversity, let our dear nation, our old people, never despair and despair. Since we will change this corrupt order as we enter the 2nd century, let no one hesitate that we will build a democratic civilization for all citizens, that we will implement a strengthened parliamentary system worthy of our citizens. That's exactly why we're going down in history to vote no for the benefit of our people. With the spirit of 1919 and 1923, as our founder, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, said, the country will surely find peace, and our nation will surely be happy. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation on behalf of the patriotic democratic staffs of the foundation, salvation, embrace and development.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0494par0495	He asked for a personal word on the matter, Mr. Bursa MP Refik Özen. Here you go, Mr. Caress.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0495par0498	Mr. President, I have been promised to express my opinion on Article 3 of the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I hereby salute our General Assembly and our beloved nation. Mr. President, at the beginning of my words, I condemn the sanctions taken by the United States of America regarding our country last night, and I see it not only as an S-400 issue, but as an expression of the recent fact that Turkey has the dominant power in both the Eastern Mediterranean and its region, and especially the problems we have achieved in the defence industry. Let everyone know that our country will maintain its faith in dialogue and diplomacy and will never compromise national policies. In the early years of the Republic, despite the absence of war, I would like to express on this occasion that those who closed our achievements in the defence industry, which was laid out in the vision of St. Ataturk, especially in 1940, with agreements with the executives of that period, would not be able to achieve any results today with such threats and sanctions. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the precious lawmakers, the coronavirus, which appeared at the end of 2019, unfortunately spread rapidly across the world and became an epidemic and deeply affected both the health systems and the economies of the countries. Restrictive measures to the epidemic and the slowdown of production activities have negatively affected economic activity, and all the countries of the world have lost many lives and face massive economic recession in the face of this epidemic. While the health systems of the world's most economically powerful countries fail in this process, we as a country manage a successful process through our health infrastructure and our human resources. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, Turkey's economy has a competitive, market economy tradition. We're building our economic policies by centralizing and strengthening this understanding. Transparency, predictability and accountability are the most important elements of this understanding. The most important support for the fight against the epidemic is the size of the public financial field that we obtained under budget discipline during the AK PARTI administrations, and the low level of public debt. That is why our country will be among the countries that have suffered minimal damage on a global scale from the shock wave of the epidemic, thanks to its strong economy. The report published on September 16th by OECD (OECD) showed that Turkey was the least affected country among the G20 countries after China and South Korea. In addition to all this data, Turkey demonstrates significant resistance to pandemic conditions in terms of trade performance. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today is the 9th day of our budget talks. In this process, we have dealt with, in particular, some opposition lawmakers -- including our predecessor -- who have been speaking before me -- the continuous budget of the palace, the budget of the war budget, the unjust and inappropriate accusations. I would like to express in particular that this budget is the budget of our nation, such as the 18 budgets that have been prepared earlier in our time, the development budget, the health budget, the employee's budget, the budget of every part of our public society. But we know clearly that the enemies of Turkey, those who accuse us of being anti-Kurdish all the time, those who have been enemies of the brotherhood of all the people we have lived in this geography for many years, those who are against the good of this nation, those who have destroyed schools, those who have killed hundreds of teachers like Aybuke Teacher, Necmettin teacher, those who have killed hundreds of teachers, those who have claimed our heroic security forces against the martyrs, those who have tried to surround Turkey, those who have spoken the same language as in the War of Liberation, there is no reason for Turkey to be found in Syria, there is no reason for those who say, there is no reason why those who are fighting against the Turkish Republic, and those who are trying to help us. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, with Allah's permission, grace and strength from our nation, we will continue our decisive march to become a fully independent Turkey under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, with our Cumhur Alliance, despite many obstacles inside and outside. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I hereby wish that 2021 Central Management Budget Law Offer would be a blessing.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0496par0510	Anyone who wants to speak for themselves on the matter...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0497par0511	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0496par0512	Mr. Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0497par0513	Thank you, Mr. President. I know I'm not going to answer very long at this time of night. However, he spoke many words, one was the enemy of Turkey. I'll tell you this: the enemies of Turkey are the ones who live in luxury and luxury while the people are in poverty, starving, killing for bread, who don't listen to the word of the people.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0498par0516	Why are you offended?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0499par0517	Mr. Umit Yilmaz of Düzce, who has asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0500par0520	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on Article 3 of the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute you and the General Assembly. I condemn the U.S. Treasury Department's decision against our Defense Industry President and our country. In 2021, a debt of $26m,225,346 is seen in the section of the central management budget, according to the third article of the budget. Hopefully, I believe we'll be closing it next year with a positive value, not an open budget. However, what I want to talk about here today is the balance, not the financial data, but the imbalance between the neighbouring provinces of my constituency, Düzce. Now, many of you know Düzce, many of you know, and many of those who don't, I believe, have crossed the highway at least. When we look at it in terms of its natural beauty -- I won't take up much of your time -- Lake Efteni, Bird's Paradise, Cardipel, Fish Cross, we've got 19 more plateaus I can't count. We have Torkul, our Kurugöl ponds, our Prusias ad Hypium Ancient City, our amphitheater, our archaeological museum and many works. It's a great resort, the pearl of the Black Sea. There's only blue flags of Akça, where we can count the thousands of beauty, and Fakıllı Cave, and I'll tell my master that there's still the Cave of Sarika, and there's also the possibility of rafting at Melen Tea on Friday, and maybe there are some of you who are rafting. Well, now you're going to say, why are you telling me this, why are you saying this? Now, there's an imbalance here, too. What's unstable? Now, look, our neighboring province is Bolu. Bolu is our old province. We left Bolu, after the 1999 earthquake. The youngest relationship. Our population is 392, and the population of Bolu is 316. So our population is about 25 percent smaller than ours. There is indeed Lake Abant of Bolu, which is beautiful in nature, with beautiful places of employment. But in Bolu, the number of tourists that only go to Abant is three times the number of tourists that come to our Düzce. Here's an imbalance. Now, we said, "Well, let's fix this. How do we fix this? Let's call it a tourist incentive, we called it Düzce, but it's still not prepared as a tourist incentive. E, another imbalance, a second imbalance, I said 392, we have 316,000 people. We looked at it in 2020, and how much did we get out of the investment budget? We got a cut of 126 million and 880,000. Bolu got a share of 182 million $665,000. Well, here's another imbalance. We're already short a lot, so how are we going to find balance? It's not working. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, we said, the TELELOM infrastructure sucks. He's building a new site, he's building 500 digits, he's going to hook up his TELEKOM, he's going to connect the Internet. The guy sold the condos, no phones, no Internet. Here's another imbalance. Well, our citizens, our fellow citizens of Düzceli, have always faced this imbalance. E, our last Minister of Energy and Natural Resources was here, and we said, "The electrical infrastructure is so bad, even in the center, the transformers aren't enough, let alone the villages. Let's fix this imbalance. When people leave, they can't get the washing machine, the dishwasher to work in the villages. Let's fix these imbalances. While Mr. Vice President is here, we have expectations, we have expectations of the President's Strategy and Budget President. We don't want to experience these imbalances in a straight line anymore. There's a lot of imbalances in health, we haven't had time, but the other day the Turkish Language Foundation sent a dictionary the size of a brick, and I opened it up, and I looked up what it was: an object or a human being standing before it fell down, and they have more definitions of muwazene, balans. Well, there's only one thing we can do to keep us alive, Mr. Vice President, to bring us down, to get us closer to Düzce, to share more investments, which we, the Düzceians, expect and respect from you. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0501par0533	Now we're going to do the QA. Five minutes of questions, five minutes of answers. Mr. Karahocagil...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0502par0536	Thank you, Mr. President. Our 18-year-old AK PARTY, which we say in the elections and studies of November 3, 2002, if we block the holes and direct the hoses to the government's treasury, we will soon turn this country upside down. With their colleges, airports, hospitals, defense industry, dams, speed trains, double roads, bridges, tunnels, that's where we are today. As our president said: ▪ Their dreams can't even reach what we do. As an EC PARTY, what we do is a guarantee of what we will do. We always share the word with our people. We say the same thing about the opposition. What he does is a guarantee of what he will do. With those feelings, I wish our presidency's 2021 budget to be good.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0503par0539	Mr. Segregation.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0504par0540	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I wish our nation's budgets were good. I want to express that we strongly condemn the decision of the United States of America's sanctions. Dear lawmakers have been signed today for an important project between Azerbaijan and Turkey. The Iğdır-Nahçıvan natural gas pipeline came into play with a new deal. The deal was signed by Azerbaijan Energy Minister and Energy Minister Fatih Geziz. I wish that this project, 500 million cubic metres a year, 1.5 million cubes a day, would be good for our Iğdır, and for Nahçivan. Turkey-Nahçıvan natural gas pipeline is a stabilisation project of the Karabağ victory. The project will ignite the Nahçivan economy, pave the way for many initiatives and investments in the region, and the Turkish-Azerbaijan brotherhood will become a stronger, more strategic partnership with this project, and our Nahçivan brothers will be able to go home, to their schools.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0505par0544	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0506par0545	Thank you, Mr. President. All our budgets from 2002 to today have been prepared in the best, most efficient way to deliver public services to our nation. Our government's 2021-year budget, led by our president, has been drafted from education, health, justice, security and energy to agriculture with an active and sustainable vision of industrial progress. In our pandemic process, our new hospitals in particular in health care have been deployed, and the number of intensive care beds has been increased. Our country will resist the sanctions of the United States with strong and powerful economic infrastructure. He believes our budget will make investments impossible or difficult possible, and I wish him well for our country and for our nation.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0505par0547	Mr. Aycan...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0507par0548	Mr. President, Kahramanmarash is an important industrial centre in Turkey, especially in textiles and steel kitchens. We want to make industrial moves again, but there's a problem with the establishment of our organized industrial zones. It's especially important to encourage organised industrial areas. So it's a healthier, more disciplined industrialization to have centers with treatment facilities. In particular, the Food Organised Industry District, the Tomsuque Industrial Region and Elbistan need financing for the creation of animal-related industrial areas; we expect financing to be met. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0505par0550	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0508par0551	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Vice President, Mr Fuat Oktay, thanks to the budget presentation and speech of the General Assembly, I wish the 2021 budget to bring blessings. I'll ask three questions. First: How much is the teacher who has been martyred by the scholar - enemy of knowledge, Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)? Second: How many forest fires have the Green and Environmental Enemy PKK caused so far? Third, where are we in Europe and the world's agricultural revenues? Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0509par0555	Now I promise Serkan Topal, before I promise to walk for the answer. Here you go, Mr. Clumsy.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0510par0557	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, I asked a question. Indeed, the increase in Hatay's number of cases is not 125 per cent, but 400 per cent. The death rate between September 10th and December 10th proves it, Mr. Vice President. Now, in this case, there really should be a 15-day quarantine process. We, the people of Hatay, demand it, and today my phone calls have been ringing off the hook. It's 11:00 in the morning. I have been here since 00. I am here to proclaim the voice of the people of Hatay. I suggest that you consider this matter and really take precautions. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0511par0560	Yes, please, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0512par0561	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking at my notes again. I especially want to start with Hatay.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0513par0563	The number of cases has dropped in Hatay, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0512par0564	I thank our deputy and thank him for bringing it back on the agenda. I just got off the phone with our Minister of Health. Our total number of intensive care beds in Hatay is 622, and 82 intensive care has been added as of this week. So again, for today, for this week, we don't have any problems in intensive care. Now, as a result of the measures, I'm telling you the final data now. The filament team -- you know, it's very important, it's related to the reduction of events -- is up to 350, so there are 3 people in Hatay, each team. Hence, a 1050-strong filament team is now in operation. All measures are now reduced by one-third of the weekend, including these restrictions. The trend for reduction is continuing, and we're predicting that it's going to get smaller this weekend and the next week. Again, we also spoke to our Minister that he will personally go to Hatay himself within a week at the latest and that he is also taking care of Hatay himself. I specifically wanted to let you know. Thank you for your interest again.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0513par0566	Mr. President, two days ago, we already met with our Minister of Health, Mr. Serkan Topal, here, together.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0512par0567	Okay, so we're all, like, close, that's the way it is. We're already interested in all our cities in the same frame. Again, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to clear up this matter just now. I mean, I don't see the point here either. Are you trying to get a citizen at the scene to tell a brother's family that nothing has been paid?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0514par0568	No.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0512par0569	Are you saying that the government is not doing its part?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0514par0570	No.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0512par0571	Guys, I say this every time, so you don't do this, for God's sake. Look, it's paid now, it's not paid, et cetera. Now, once again, after the incident, I'm going to put it in a little bit more detail. I'm telling you now the part where the compensation for this incident can be paid. There's an application and a decision to be made. These findings are being made, all sorts of procedures are being completed, the decision is being made; his document is here with his signatures. So it's a civilian victim, and it's going to be paid $33,000, and I can tell you the number 17/02/2017, but for the time being, I can do this to you. After that, it is decided to give compensation to our friend, relatives, relatives of our brother, parents, again. Our Ministry of the Family has brought this to justice, and by the Commission's decision, it is again being delivered to the family through the State of Sinop, and also to the relevant individuals on 28/03/2017. I mean, for the family you've been talking to on the phone. From the date of the arraignment, he'll have to sign a decree to pay for it again in 30 days, which is also relevant to the law.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0514par0573	What does that mean?
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0512par0574	The peacekeeping order, which means it's in the form of a declaration, which means I got it.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0514par0575	I mean, I can't...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0512par0576	The family is filing a discrepancy report stating that they do not accept it, and the discrepancy report is here, and then they're suing for a very high amount -- I don't want to express that amount here -- and right now this process is going on. The ministry also sent us a note, meaning that we were justified there, and it's like they're being paid or something, and that's what it's saying. I mean, there's only one thing about the state, the martyrs, or the veterans, about our martyrs...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0515par0578	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0512par0579	Even if we can't be paid in full for our martyrs and veterans, even if we're not meant to be paid in full for what we do and what we do, including all our institutions and ministers, we make an effort in this framework. So it would be a shame if you were trying to get me to say that the state, the government, does not do this.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0516par0580	It's been paid. You said Mr. Oktay.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0512par0581	So that's the Ministry's thing here; that's the situation, and all the documents are here.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0517par0582	Thank you, Mr. Oktay. Mr. Ziver, what are you going to say at this hour? Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0518par0587	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we need some corrections, and I've been promised to make corrections at this time of night, correct, but the speaker just made a false statement about Batman. I've been promised this several times, since it's been expressed by different oratories on this council bench, that I need to correct it. Thank you for your promise. She passed away at the intensive care gate before being put into intensive care on these platforms at all times about the death of an 18 - month - old baby. Something like this is unreal, it's not true. This brother died in intensive care after three days in intensive care; this is the first. The second was a matter of bringing in a patient from Sweden. Yeah, well, he was Batman, and since he was Batman, he probably touched someone a lot. He's been critical of our Ministry of Health for a couple of times, and he's brought it up on this stand...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0519par0591	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0520par0592	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-15sit04spe0521par0593	I'm taking a two-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit05spe0521par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of Turkey's 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. The commission is in place. Now, negotiations on Article 3 have been completed. I submit the third article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. I'm taking a minute off from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-15sit06spe0521par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. No commission. It's been postponed. Since there is no other work available on our agenda, it is 11 p.m. on Wednesday (December 16th 2020) to discuss the 4th and 13th articles of the 2021 Year Centre Management Budget Law Proposal. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
