tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 85th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Aksaray MP Ramazan Kashlı, who asked for a comment on the problems and solution proposals of our tradesmen due to the coronavirus. Here you go, Mr. Eyebrows.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in this difficult time of our country, our common goal is to protect the health of our citizens and to survive this process with the least amount of damage. For this reason, stay at home. It is intended to prevent the spread of the virus by calling on our citizens. However, it has caused serious economic problems for our shopkeeper, who can't open its shutters, who can't open it, and who can't afford to close it. Many government supports in the process have at least eased the problems of our tradesman. I want to thank the government for these supports for our economy's main building block, our tradesman. In addition, an economic board of representatives of all tradesmen must be formed, especially in order not to lose our small tradesman. From grocery store to bakery to barber, our nearly 2 million tradesmen operating in numerous areas from clothing to transportation have either had to close their businesses or their sales have been reduced. This led to the loss of income that could satisfy the needs of both the family and those who work with it. Therefore, an important economic support package must be prepared to breathe into our entire tradesman. Our tradesman needs credit more than ever in this process. Our banker, who applied to the bank for a loan, is unable to get the loan he needs because he has a record barrier against him. Especially those who want to take advantage of the KGF loan face different problems. In this regard, for the future of our tradesman, a permanent arrangement must be made immediately. Compulsive conditions must be eliminated and given free interest and free loans for at least a year. Due to the outbreak that has begun to affect our country in early March, the April and May payments of our tradesman using loans should be postponed for at least three months without interest. As a result of the constraint of inter-city and inter-city travel, the number of people's buss suddenly dropped, the inter-city bus, filled, service vehicle, should not be ignored as well as the victim of our tradesman in the transport industry. Tax removal from the fuel used by our driver shop must at least be halted in the process and given the necessary support. In addition, many of our tradesmen in the transport sector have purchased their vehicles by taking out loans or arranging cheques. This public transport, which is currently out of business, must be made easy to repay the debts of our tradesmen. According to ISKUR statistics, the number of unemployed registered to İSKUR in March, when the outbreak was effective increased from 223,323 people to 3 million 675k compared to the previous month. Workers who worked in the private sector and were removed indefinitely and for free are one of the main reasons for this increase. Our Treasury and Finance Minister has announced that the workers in this position will be given a monthly salary of 1,170 euros, but this is one of the most important demands of our brothers and sisters to be delayed for three months without interest. The agricultural sector was also affected by the outbreak. I thank our Minister for Agriculture and Forestry for paying support to the farmer and for the fact that Aksaray, my hometown, is part of these 21 provinces as part of the seed support arrangement, and I also demand a reduction in bait prices. I thank you from here and ask for economic support for at least one salary, which is a bridge between our state institutions and our citizens, trying to provide our citizens with drugs and basic food requirements that they can't reach. As our leader, Mr. State Gardener, has expressed, I believe we will overcome these difficult times by encouraging and enacting the feeling of cooperation, by encouraging national solidarity. I also thank and salute the General Assembly once again, our health workers, who are on duty day and night with great zeal and sacrifice in the process.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0003par0018	The second non-responsive statement belongs to Khakat MP Oldi Durmaz, who wants to talk about measures to be taken against a possible food crisis. Here you go, Mr. Durmaz.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0004par0022	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our beloved nation watching us on television, I salute you all. Every week, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization warns that after these crises, we will be facing a great famine in the world in which we live. According to studies conducted in 2017, we all know that around 124 million people worldwide live in hunger. Our priority should be to take these warnings into account and strengthen production. These days, when we're dealing with the Coronavirus epidemic, seeds and seedlings are ready to meet the soil. The agricultural sector is also on a strategically important day. Especially when we miss a month of planting season, the seedling season, the seedling season, you know, we lose a year's worth of crops and production with it. If we don't, we can't feed; if we don't, we can't consume; if we don't, we will live in famine and hunger, and in short, we will endanger the lives of generations. In the last 20 years, I'd like to remind you all that 3.5 million hectares of processed farmland have been abandoned in our country due to agricultural policylessness. This is a clear sign of what the EC PARTY says: I have no interest in production, peasants, and agriculture. Imagine, the Economic Stabilisation Shield Package is being announced by power; there are no peasants, no agriculture, no production. For the post-Civid outbreak, an emergency council, including agricultural chambers, producers, agricultural and food engineers and veterinary physicians, needs to be formed and started immediately. So we're running late declaring agricultural production campaigns. When we look at the most advanced countries in the world, we see that there are 1... in agriculture as well as in industry, never without the two. IN 18 years, the AK PARTY governments linked agriculture to an import-based system; agricultural production, sadly, has sacrificed imports to the villagers. As a result, a Turkish exporter of agricultural products came to Turkey importing agricultural products. It is, sadly, a work by the power of the EC PARTY that prides itself. There's a problem with agricultural production in Turkey, and there's no such thing as agricultural policy. In order to fight the plague, and in order to produce it, we need to be especially aware that if we miss this one month's season, we'll lose a year's worth of crops, producers and farmers. If we don't produce, we can't feed, we can't consume; if we don't, we'll live in famine and hunger. Ataturk is the master of the nation. The peasant he calls the nation, sadly, was devastated by the power of the AK PARTI and was forced to leave the land where he was born and to emigrate. I regret to inform you that in our country, food crisis is inevitable; if it does not produce farmers, it is at our door. First, urgent incentives must be brought for the farmer, the peasant, and the manufacturer to produce safely. A farmer should have confidence in his government as a producer. The farmer's debts to the Agriculture Bank, Agriculture Loan Co-operatives and other banks must be immediately postponed until the end of 2021, without interest. The farmer's debts, up to 25,000 TL, must be subsidized and erased. In order to increase production, the farmer must be provided with the support of UTV and diesel without VAT. Agricultural irrigation must not be charged with electricity for 2020, but its existing debts must be postponed without interest by the end of 2021. Support payments for 2019 and 2020 must be fulfilled immediately in all our provinces. Plant and animal products must be immediately supported by a basin-based support plan.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0005par0031	Complete.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0004par0032	I am, Mr. President. Good agricultural practices, cooperatives and organic agricultural support must be maintained, and immediately the package of agricultural economic support must be announced. The bait that's been raised three times in the last month must be immediately put on the support profile. The October and planting of the April-May period must be brought up immediately, the manufacturer must be trusted, the base price and purchase guarantee must be announced immediately. The tractor that the peasant plowed is never to be impounded. Farmer's BUG-KUR debts must be postponed without interest by the end of 2021. The Earth crop office must guarantee a 2020 base price purchase, especially wheat, and immediately explain its costs. As Ataturk said, the land is so generous that every drop of waste pays for the sweat of the forehead.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0005par0035	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0004par0036	Again, agriculture is the basis of the national economy. That's why development in agriculture is our top priority. If the majority of our nation were not farmers, we would not be on earth today as nations of the world, and I say, "There is no meal taken away, and it will not be found on time." Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0005par0039	The third unscheduled statement belongs to Şanlıurfa MP Halil Özşavlı, who wanted to mention the anniversary of the liberation of Şanlıurfa from enemy occupation. Here you go, Mr. Self-Aid.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0006par0043	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before I begin my words, I wish God's mercy to those who have died of the outbreak of coronavirus in our country, and to those who are still recovering from treatment. However, I give thanks to our President, the Minister of Health and all the health workers who have fought against this pandemic that has scorched the world from day one to day. In the face of this pandemic, we see that the superpowers of the world, the richest and most advanced European countries, have suffered a defeat, that their citizens have died every day, that thousands of citizens have died in plain sight, and that they have done nothing, and that our country today is fighting to save our citizens from this pandemic with the least loss, the least loss. Once again and all together, instead of a needy Turkey, we bear witness to a powerful Turkey, a victorious Turkey, rather than a defeated Turkey in the military and political field. We thank again the AK PARTY, and its leader, who gave us this pride. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs were last Saturday (April 11th) the 100th anniversary of Urbana's rescue from enemy invasion. In this affair, I have taken an off-the-topic promise. Urbana is a rare pearl of Southeast Canaan, a unique corner of our heavenly homeland, with its faithful lands, health - smelling climate, and spiritual identity. The land of the prophets, the land of the prophets, the land of the prophets, which Adam the son of God was a farmer, and Abraham, Job, and Shuaib the Holy One, and Elisha the Holy One, is a land of the prophets. In fact, Christians refer to him as "Diyarmeh" because the handkerchief of Jesus Christ was found in Şanlıurfa. Its history goes back to prehistoric times. According to the famous Arab historian Ebul Ferec, Urbana is the first and most important of the seven places that were rebuilt after the Flood of Noah. However, Gobeklitepe proved to us that the history of Urbana went back at least 12,000 years. Throughout history, Abbasis, Hamdanis, Nümaris, and Crusaders have established civilization in Urbana. It was in 637 during the Hazreti Omer era, when Urbana was anointed with Islam. The first Turkish rule in Urbana would be in the 11th century, during Seljuk's time. Then, finally, in 1517, in the period of Yavuz Sultan Selim, Urbana will rule the Ottomans and, hopefully, will never leave Turkish rule again. After the end of World War I in 1918, Urbana was invaded by the British and then by the French. On the day of the occupation, the French will continue to negotiate with the chiefs of the tribes in the region, leaders, to make the occupation permanent, while all persecutions against the people of Urbana will continue, but they will never be able to buy the people of Urbana. In this very day, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk will fire the fuse of the struggle for independence, saying, "Expand the national organization with a telegram he has received without delay." The battle, which began in January 1920, under the leadership of the 12 mutebers in Urbana, which we know as the 12, will succeed in April, and Urbana will be wiped out of enemy occupation on April 11th. In 1984, Urbana will be named after the National Assembly after Osman Doğan and his friends at the time and will be named Şanlıurfa. Likewise, in 2016, this Veteran Parliament will provide a talk with the Istliklal Medal. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One more moment, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0007par0054	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0006par0055	Urbana, an ancient history, is both a city of history and tourism and a city of gastronomy. I invite all of you and all of our people to see the cave where Ibrahim was born, the cave where Balıkligöl was born, the mosque of Mevlidi Halil, the place of patience of Job the prophet Job, the house of Harran, the house of Gobeklitepe, the city of Shuayizhir, the hidden paradise in Halfeti, the valley of Takoran, in Siverek, the valley of Takoran. Especially in the Byzantine period in Viranşehir, the Byzantine plantings, the Shamun Monastery, the Chemdin Castle, the Hazreti Job and the Elyesa Turbages, and the largest state production farm in the world today, the TİTEM, is found in our district of Ceylanpınar -- I think you should see the TİGEM fields and the gazelles that we grow in these fields. As I finish, I thank and greet the President, who declared the year 2019 as the year of Gobeklitepe, and congratulated the 11th of April of our Urban citizens with a video message last week.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0008par0061	Dear friends, I, as acting Speaker of the Assembly, on behalf of the Court, celebrate the 100th year of Sanliurfa's deliverance from the enemy on April 11th with the same sensitivity and sentiment, and ask for the blessings of Almighty God for those who lost their lives in the cause. Dear friends, now, I'm going to promise the first 20 congressmen who enter the system to their place for a minute. Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0009par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, the coronavirus that surrounds the world needs 30 cents worth of masks, while our country, as president of our president, successfully conducts this global test, provides free materials for dozens of countries, including the superpowers of the world. Our health infrastructure is strong, our health workers' dedication increases the quality of the service, while the rate of death slows down and the rate of recovery rapidly increases. Our government supports those in need with free and affordable conditions, while our municipalities support those in need with their own budgets, without showing or advertising. For these services to our nation and to the world, I thank our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our first Minister of Health of the EC PARTI governments, Professor Dr. Recep Akdağ, and all of our health ministers who have served. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I say, "You're great, Turkey." I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0010par0072	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0011par0074	Mr. President, everyone is trying to protect the public's health. Like our health workers, our policemen, our chiefs, our municipal employees, an important part of us are journalists who work in the field. Due to the outbreak, our local press in particular has to continue its mission under difficult circumstances. The fact that the public has been informed correctly in the process is the front line for the public to receive the measures taken. Our local press needs immediate assistance. Journalists and media workers who risk their lives can't get their wages healthy. Our local newspapers must be immediately taken into consideration for the economic conditions of our journalists. For this, I call upon the Press Administrators and the state's relevant authorities to take immediate action. Let's not forget that our local press is a bridge between public and executives in the fight against the epidemic.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0010par0076	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0012par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. The Coronavirus has taken over the world, and in this struggle many countries have gone into chaos despite their technology, wealth and power. In the process, 93 countries asked us for help, and to see the need of the Minnet owner is the key to the friendly door. The solidarity of the World Health Organization Director of Turkey should be an example to the whole world. When NATO Secretary General states that our country's sending aid to Italy and Spain is a clear sign of alliance solidarity, we expect them to be just as righteous as Britain, Kosovo, Spain, and many countries, I can't believe I'm writing this from Israeli journalist Stein Τ's Twitter account, but we expect them to be as righteous as foreigners.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0013par0082	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0014par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. The local media, which has already been through difficult times and is trying to survive, has become unable to breathe with the outbreak of coronavirus. During talks with local journalists, they said they were also affected by the Covid-19 epidemic and expected the state to take steps to address their problems in order to continue their activities. In particular, I say our local journalists are anxious to meet demands, such as the benefits of the Loan Guarantee Fund as well as the use of local media companies under the SEC and tax debts, the mandatory publication of municipal and municipal assembly and council decisions in local newspapers, the official announcement of the governorship announcements, the local media announcements, the low interest in digital transformation and technological infrastructure, and the loan and support of investments. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0015par0087	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0016par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. In Istanbul, where the number of cases related to the epidemic is increasing and the rate of increase is high, I would like to call on our citizens to observe their own conditions. If the requirement for rapid control of the process is to stay at home, then the responsibility of power is to take more prepared and permanent measures quickly in terms of the economic support of our citizens, as well as the problems and concerns that exist for workers and employers who have to work. However, after more than a month, that was not the agenda of the General Assembly, which had been under difficult conditions for weeks. The agenda has been amnesty, bribery, gangs, con men, violent criminals, I'm afraid.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0015par0091	Mr. Sumer...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0017par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. Education has been transformed into a puzzle board in AK PARTY power. Hundreds of thousands of unscheduled teachers have become a social problem because of the lack of planning over the years. On March 18th, the President gave the good news of the appointment to 20,000 teachers following the Anti-Koronavirus Co-ordination Meeting. Teachers who have been waiting for this news for years have resigned, prepared, and waited if they are working. There's been no word for about a month, no one knows when it'll come out, even though there's a need to issue a decree in 15 days. These appointments were made without a plan, without a grant from the finances? Why, then, is it a matter of good news? Teachers who quit their jobs because they've been assigned to them don't have salaries or insurance right now. And among them are those who provide for their families, and those who are in debt, and those who are unable to pay their rent. This decision, declared as the good news, caused nightmares. We had a problem with unregistered teachers, and now we've got the assigned teacher problem. The appointed teachers, who have earned all their rights, say to begin their duties at once, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0015par0095	Mr. Sun...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0018par0097	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are the scandal-corona neglect in the hospital concerning the orthopedic service of the Foreign Ministry of Yıldırım Can Uludağ on the website of Cumhuriyet daily on 11/4/2020. The patient's assistant was employed by the doctor's chief, infecting at least seven people. Doctors take the Hippocratic oath, and even though all our physicians are here to prevent people from getting sick, heal the sick, and provide the right to the most sacred right to a healthy life, is it possible for a clinical chief to act against it? Is it possible that when you run a patient's assistant, there's too much information, too much knowledge, too much humane to know that both the patients and the people there are at risk? No. But we see that there are no such features in the report. Gaye what? In the days we're dealing with the Corona outbreak, it's about defaming our government's successful policies, defaming a hospital, defaming our dedicated health workers. As a physician, he condemns those who did this cruel and unfair news, that we are with our health workers...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0015par0099	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0019par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. We owe thanks to all of our martyrs who protect our country with their blood, their lives, who threaten our dignity, our independence, who oppose any attempt against our unity and unity, who have sacrificed their lives for it. Taking care of our martyrs, remembering them and not forgetting them is one of our most sacred tasks. On the occasion of 14-20 April Martyrs Week, I welcome all our martyrs who have fallen into the ground for their national and spiritual values by shielding their bodies from treasonous coup attempts, particularly Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his comrades, and I salute their families and relatives with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0015par0103	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0020par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. According to our belief, the office of martyrdom and martyrdom is the highest in office after prophecy. The martyr means the witness, who is present. Do not call those who are killed in God's cause dead in the Qur'an the Truth, for they are alive, but you do not know. For his land, whose time and place is more sacred than his life, he is the martyr who gave up everything in the world and everything in the world for his national, religious and spiritual values. He is a martyr by the description of Omar the Holy One, who has dedicated himself to God. The hill of martyrs has never been empty in this land, and heroes have always died to live in a home. May God have mercy on all of our heroic martyrs who have died in the name of the week of the martyrs we are in. May their souls rest in peace, their positions be in heaven, their degrees. I give thanks and thanks to our veterans, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0021par0108	Mr. Kringle...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0022par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. The importance and necessity of city hospitals serving many of our provinces has been better understood after the recent Covid-19 incident. The health system in the United States and Europe has collapsed following the outbreak of new types of coronavirus that have affected many countries in the world. In our country, city hospitals contribute greatly to our most cutting-edge, physical infrastructure, quality bed capacity, and facial flow projects that raise the quality of health care to the highest level. In hospitals with all necessary units and large number of intensive care beds, treatments and checks are being made for all cases that may or may not be considered suspicious. There are a number of hospitals in the area, the quality of service, as well as the address of the high-profile human resources that bring our city hospitals into our country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...thank you to our president, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0023par0114	Mr. Kaya...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0024par0116	We are deeply sorry for the loss of our dear elder, faithful human, son of our Tripoli, leader of the Independent Turkey Party, Professor Haydar Basha. Haydar Chief was a national man who insisted that domestic production, economic independence and labour should be valued. The Muslims who made the 6th Fleet the qiblah, the Sea Travelers who went to drive them away, the Leftists are infidels? I reject it, and I urge our people not to compromise an ounce of Ataturk, because Ataturk is a country, and if we lose the Ataturk soul, we will lose the land. Our unity, our body, our integrity, can only be provided with Ataturk, and there is no alternative. We will always remember the words. What I do is to tell God about the most beautiful servant, Ataturk. I recommend that everyone read the book Welcome to Ataturk, which he called and signed to me as a gift. May the grave be filled with light, may the earth be in heaven, and may we all be saved.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0023par0118	Mr. Borrower...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0025par0120	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we have one of the noblest, most noble loves of all. Fighting for the country when necessary is a manifestation of the love of the country. We are the children of a nation full of martyrs and veterans who write epics in the name of our country. We are conscious and conscious of how our apocalypse entrusted this land to us. We are grateful to our beloved martyrs, the only owners of our struggle for existence, the veterans and martyrs whose patriotism we are proud of, who have changed the fate of our nation by willingly saying, "Let the soul, the soul, the soul, the soul, the soul, the soul, the soul, and the soul of all that exists." We will pay our debts to our martyrs and veterans by working hard to release a fully independent, stronger Turkey to future generations. In the War of Salvation, in Çanakkale, in the 15th of July, I remember the children of our beloved nation, our heroic veterans, with gratitude and respect, celebrating the Martyrs Week of our beloved nation.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0023par0122	Mr. Aydemir...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0026par0124	Sir, a thinker is like the cane that everyone buys to beat up their neighbors and doesn't use against themselves." he says. He's right. We've seen dozens of images confirm that during seven days of execution law enforcement. We always stress that every arrangement here is the demand of the people and the need of our country. The execution law is the last example. And when that happens, the conscience finds it to be the kind address of the Holy Father. That's a definition of a four-to-eight-year sentence for those who form a criminal organization or run it. Another is that loan sharks who sink stoves are sentenced to two to six years in prison and five hundred days in legal money. The unforgiving approach to terrorists, traitors, is the best. Thankfully, as the Cumhur Alliance, we've ruled our will, we've acted as prisoners in our conscience, no, I hope it brings good luck.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0023par0125	Mr. Mulecioğlu...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0027par0127	Mr. President, the National Technology Movement can only be carried out in the spirit of public ownership and mobilization from seven to seventy. All members of the community have a common belief in the power and the future of this country, with a common ideal and excitement, which is the basis for the National Technology Movement. We care about both domestic and national and original breakthroughs in the National Technology Movement. We see these concepts as the key to development by protecting our national interests. The infrastructure needed to achieve this ideal has been largely established in the last 15 years. Turkey has a strong infrastructure with 250 universities, 1,200 AR-GE, 350 design centers, 84 technology development centers, 153,000 RD personnel, 11,000 researchers. The total investment of $177 billion in RDs during this period is 48 per cent private sector, 42 per cent university, 10 per cent public institutions. Knowing that the future is in technology, Turkey's and the Turkish nation's best chance is that at this time the EC PARTY government and its leader, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, are in charge. God bless us.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0023par0128	Mr. Pilot...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0028par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Mersin is one of the largest agricultural regions in Turkey. We are a pioneer in many agricultural products, including bananas, tomatoes, lemons, citrus. The ban on exports has left our farmer with many problems, causing him to suffer a victim. The work for our farmers will give our producers a comfortable breath. In this sense, providing diesel and fertilizer support is a priority requirement. Seranism is one of the leading methods of production in our Mersin. We're waiting for seedling support to be given to our greenhouse producers. Agriculture is the basis of the Turkish economy. It is vital that our farmers' problems be resolved. Our producers await the good news from the government. I salute and cherish our sturgeon makers.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0029par0133	Mr. Scabukcuoğlu...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0030par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. There are many workers who have been victimised by the virus, along with one-on-one health workers who are interested in patients. Unfortunately, the government doesn't eliminate these victims, it only publishes and withdraws. For example, grocery workers who provide food for our people spend their entire days in a disposable mask, not enough food to strengthen immunity, not enough overtime, not enough social distance. These citizens, who work for minimum wage, are overwhelmed by increasing workloads along with the epidemic. In their workplaces, when they ask for measures to be taken, you should resign if you do not want to. They face the sentence. Reminding the government that we're going through a period of non-excusement, it is imperative that the government step up its controls to ensure and maintain the right to health care of employees, and act quickly, he says, my respects.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0031par0138	Mr. Tutdere...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0032par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. About 250 students, including my Adıyaman people, and many workers, are trapped in Ukraine. Students trapped in Ukraine are there, and families are also suffering from anxiety in Turkey. Workers working in other countries, such as Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, are also waiting and being victimised to come to Turkey. We call on the State Department and its relevant institutions: our students abroad, especially the citizens of the Republic of Turkey, demand that the measures necessary to bring them to Turkey be taken immediately, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0033par0143	Mr. Özyrek...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0034par0145	Mr. President, the dedicated local publishers, who show their determination and determination to continue their mission by risking vital risks, are not among the sectors that benefit from the overwhelming situation as the main body of activity. Local publishers, on the other hand, are publishing, just like public broadcasters, and perform their professional duties as private broadcasters, which meet the need for communication, communication of our citizens. In this case, tax and SGK configurations must be postponed by taking part in sectors of radio television broadcasting, which are considered an overwhelming cause. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0033par0147	Mr. Girgin...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0035par0149	Thank you, Mayor. To the Ministry of Health: Do you intend to operate immediately as a quarantine hospital at Menteshe district, which has been shut down, in case of any sudden demand rise in my constituency? What work is being done in our basement district to ensure that the new Bodrum State Hospital, which has not been completed, is immediately in service? What is the number of cases in our province of Covid-19, the number of deaths in this disease, and the distribution of these cases according to the counties? Do you plan to bring in interstate travel restrictions to ensure isolation, which is the leading means of preventing the outbreak? Do you have a study for representatives of health professional organisations -- the medical room, the pharmacy room, the vet's room -- to get to the pandemic board? Do you have to work to put public hospitals and camps into service instead of their homes to insulate the discharged patients? Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0036par0155	Mr. Fendoglu...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0037par0157	Thank you, Mr. President. Local media, which is the voice of our city in Anatolia and therefore all of us, is in trouble. There are expectations among the economic measures to be taken in this process: that local media companies will be granted loans as part of the COBI by the Credit Guarantee Fund or by KOSGEB, delay payments to official institutions -- the SGK and finances -- by delaying their payments, the VAT rate of advertising and ads, and the reduction of the press ads to 51% of the share of the press Agency's share, the payment of the TÜRKSAT satellite price will be delayed for a period of time, and will be paid off by TÜRKSAT and RTÜTÜTÜTÜSAT, as a reduction of public space broadcasts, as a reduction of the public budget for 30 per cent. Imported materials, such as paper, molds, and ink, should not be affected by the increase in currency and customs duties should be completely nullified. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0038par0160	Now, I'm going to promise all three of our female paralegals. Bahar Ayvazoglu...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0039par0163	Thank you, Mr. President. According to the President's decision published in the Official Gazette, the treatments of all our citizens will be free of charge, regardless of whether they have any social security within the scope of the fight against Covid-19. According to this, any protective equipment provided by the Ministry of Health, which is recommended for preventive use of disease, the tests used to diagnose disease, are locked, and there will be no charge for centralized drugs provided to treat its current equipment and disease. It is no doubt appreciated by our nation that this service, which many advanced states have collected, should be given for free in our country, should be thanked by us, who have signed this decision. Thank you, Mr. President. Yours truly.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0040par0167	Mr. Orhan Light...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0041par0169	Thank you, Mayor. We can't stay at home because the wheels will continue to turn. Rather than creating conditions for our stay at home, they refer to our lives. Many of us still have to work outside. Since we work in the most unsecured jobs, we don't have the means to work from home or get paid leave from home. This insecurity is growing exponentially for refugees and immigrant women. We're still being run in non-essential sectors like the textile industry. As part of the service sector, mostly women, continue to work, many employees have either been laid off or taken off for free. We can't deal with the amount of money we're getting when we're getting poor. For those who have been laid off, you must receive unconditional unemployment benefits, you must stop production, you must give paid leave to employees in non-essential sectors. We women are strong together in the corona, we are each other's guarantees.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0040par0171	Mr. Coshkun...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0042par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. The relevant commissions of the Bars have announced that there are many prisoners and prisoners beyond the capacity of prisons and that there are no hygiene conditions. With the ban on opinions, concerned relatives can only be informed of their situation once a week by phone calls. Preliminary measures must be taken for the right of the prisoners' health; testing must be performed; disinfectant, cleaning materials, mask, gloves, cologne should be given; water quotas must be removed; hot water should be given for 24 hours; adequate health care and health care must be provided, and food must be treated with care. With a complicated and extremely unfair execution arrangement, there is no effective protection mechanism for women in an open prison for women or children to be injured, killed, and harmed while opening their way out of prison. It is to invite women to die of men's violence, if not from corona, without explaining how they will be released, or how they will be audited, and how women and children will be allowed to reintroduce their homes, bodies, and lives. Women together, we're strong, we're each other's security.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0043par0176	Now, Mr. Group, I'm going to meet the VP's demands. Mr. Dervisoglu on behalf of the Good PARTY Group. Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0044par0180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. Haydar, chairman of the Independent Turkey Party, died of a coronavirus in the hospital where he was treated. He was a politician and a scientist in his position in Turkish politics. I offer God's mercy to the deceased, and my condolences to his family, and to his loved ones; his place is in heaven, and his soul is in peace. The Coronavirus epidemic has given our country and the world a chance to focus on the Rants due to the fact that there is only one agenda. Yesterday, business machines entered Lake Salda, which had recently been shut down on grounds of the outbreak. The government continues its damage to nature without slowing down. We never accept the concreteization of Lake Salda, one of the most important natural beautys of our country. History will never forgive those who are responsible for it. We're waiting for the concreteization to be stopped and the machines to come out of Lake Salda, the wonder of nature, and we're calling in the government's good PARTI on this. The problem with not finding a mask is that it's becoming a serious problem by the time it gets bigger. Our citizens who have to go out on the street are having trouble finding masks to wear to protect themselves from the virus. The government announced that the masks would first be given with money, and then distributed by PTT for free, and now has made a free statement from pharmacies.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0045par0186	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0044par0187	But citizens who go to pharmacies to buy masks return empty-handed, learning that the Ministry of Health will apply with the SMS. At this point, the government is blocked at the point of delivering the mask to the citizens. The solution, however, is simple: Get the municipalities to distribute these masks through municipalities. Instead of thinking about how to make things easier by hand in these difficult times, the government bypasses municipalities, causing problems in reaching citizens. Citizen service is waiting, the mask is waiting, but Mr. Erdoğan prefers to implement policies that victimise citizens rather than work with municipalities as Presidents, and to make decisions that would put the public's health at risk again.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0045par0190	Let's move on, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0044par0191	We can't possibly accept that. The President invites you to do what is necessary for the state's humanity, regardless of the party, with respect to the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0045par0192	Now on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Mohammed Levent Nightingale. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0046par0195	Thank you. Mr. President, we regret to inform you that Mr. Haydar Chief of the Independent Party of Turkey has lost his life to Covid-19 epidemics. We ask the deceased for God's mercy and ask patience for his family, for his relatives, and for his loved ones. Mr. President, it is understood as the April 14th-20th Week of Martyrs. On the occasion of the Week of Martyrs, the founder of the Republic of Turkey, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and his comrades, and also our beloved martyrs, who have died in the way of religion, homeland, nation, and honor, are in the name of mercy, gratitude, and conflict, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0047par0198	Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Rights Saruhan Oluç. Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0048par0201	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, on August 19, 2019, a trustee was appointed to Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality, you know. He is still the trustee of the will of the Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality. This trustee planted hand sanitizer units and products in public and private organizations on April 2nd, but it turns out these disinfectants were fake. The decontaminations the trustee planted were fake. The head of the Health Department for the purchase of fake disinfectant after the incident was discovered has been dismissed. Well, is that enough? So this disinfectant was used by thousands of citizens all over Diyarbakir for ten days. While hand-to-face cleaning stood in a very important place at the point of combating this epidemic, we know that even in parliament, disinfectant is sitting on our tables -- the placement of counterfeit disinfectants, the threat of public health, such carelessness has coincided with a city hall and the trustee at its head. Now, doesn't the trustee have any responsibility here? Of course we want to ask him. So it's not enough to wash sidewalks with water and detergent to show off, fighting the epidemic. The trustee himself is carrying out a will of his own. This trustee is not cooperating with trade organisations in these days of the epidemic, nor is he working with NGOs in Diyarbakır, and he is also working with them. He doesn't even apologize to the public, and he openly disregards the public's health over this fraud. We've talked before, and we'll keep talking. The corruption, irregularities, irregular spending of these appointed trustees, all of which were in the Court reports, and we showed it here with various documents.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0049par0205	Let's move on, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0048par0206	And now he's faced with a situation like this. One person who doesn't even stoop to gathering the city council is clearly playing with public health in Diyarbakir Metropolitan, and I'd like to say that here. The second thing I want to talk about is Lake Salda. Lake Salda was closed for a visit with the corona on grounds. Now, there's a business machine that's started working, and there's a business machine that's already started working in a area called a protected area that's not supposed to be nailed down. Once again, let's say to power that such interference that would disrupt its originality and its natural structure is absolutely wrong, and the plundering of Lake Salda must be avoided. Now, we've been talking about this execution law here for a week, and it's going to start now. We continued our struggle against this execution law, and we made our proposals, our criticisms very clearly, from the platform where we sat for a week.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0050par0210	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0048par0211	I'm picking it up, sir. Evacuations will now be initiated. I'd like to say, is it true, for example, that 100 liras goes to Batman, 200 lira goes to Diyarbakir, 200 lira goes to Şırnak, 200 lira goes to Mardin? So a price has been made, and according to the bus, the bus, and the number, this fee can also be changed. So those who are going to be evacuated have to pay these road fees. And that's a great injustice, so let's just say that. I'd like to make a final point: A situation that has been facing you for several days, refugees are being left on the road, especially in İzmir, Çanakkale, and in Çanakkale. So it happened in Menemen, and it happened in Çanakkale Küçükkuyu Port.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0051par0215	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0048par0216	I'm picking it up, sir. About 200 refugees brought in from Osmaniye, who were held for two days at the Harmandalı Repatriation Centre, were left in the district of Menemen of İzmir. The refugees in Bazakule were sent with 9 such as Malatya Beydağı and Osmaniye Refugee Camps and Cırklareli and Kopeeli. It's a very bad painting. The refugees who were left by the side of the road are walking for miles, coming to the İzmir Autogar, waiting on the sidewalks because they were not brought in because of the outbreak. These refugees are facing inhumane behaviour. It's not acceptable for power to put these people on the street on the day of the curfew. They have no bread, no place to sleep. First they're taken to Marketkule, you know, and then they're left in the camps, and now they're left in the middle of the cities. With what understanding is such a great evil, we want to ask power and say it. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0052par0219	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Engin Ozkoc. Here they are, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0053par0222	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, the leader of the Independent Turkey Party Haydar has died with Chief Covid-19. I offer him God's mercy, and my condolences to his family and to his loved ones. President of presidential Communications, Fahrettin Altun, Boğaziçi Kuzguncıkta, has rented a land belonging to the Foundation General Directorate of the Foundations, and, sir, he's been making arrangements for the foundation he's rented at this time when we've lost a valuable politician -- as I've just expressed -- who's been fighting the coronavirus -- who's just lost his life. So is life in the palace; whatever they see from their elders, their younger ones do the same, they envy them. If AKP President Recep Tayyip Erdogan continues to build in his palace in Ahlat, in the day of the coronavirus, at his summer palace in Okluk, then the small children of the palace do what they see from the elders. Our people are fighting for their lives; gentlemen, they are at the trouble of the palaces, the houses, and the gardens where they sit on the property of the people; we are not righteous, we are condemning. It's pandemic days, there's an epidemic. Who works these constructions, are forced to work? Hasan Oğuz, one of our workers, who was working in a series at the Galataport construction site, died yesterday of the coronavirus. I wish him God's mercy, my condolences to his family. The construction site of the road to northern Marmara in Sakarya was run even on Saturdays and Sundays, where curfew was imposed. If you want, we can give you details about the workers, we can show you pictures, we can show you videos.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0054par0228	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0053par0229	And the building of the house of Ahlat is under construction, and there are panzers in the sea of Salda. Are these mandatory constructions? I understand when you say hospital; you take precautions, you set shifts, you create social distance, you build construction. What's in Galataport? What's road construction? And what is the palace of Ahlat? What happens if he sits a month late on his throne? The imperative is to translate economic conditions -- as the AKP President said. There is no money in the unemployment fund, in the treasury, because everything has been emptied. Spinning wheels cost the lives of our workers. Non-essential construction sites must be stopped immediately. In constructions that need to be maintained, measures must be implemented, audits must be carried out. Yours truly.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0054par0231	Let's give Mr. Ozkoc a mask reminder, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0053par0232	Right away, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0054par0233	Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Muhammad Emin Akbasoglu. Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0055par0236	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, at the beginning of my words, I offer my condolences to the family and relatives of the Party of Independent Turkey, who died because of Covid-19. I pray for God's mercy and forgiveness to the head of Haydar, and his place will be in heaven. Turkey remains steadfast in its fight against the coronavirus epidemic, closely monitoring the effects of the outbreak, including health, food and security, which has taken over the world. We see together that our country is in a positive dissolution, which is also appreciated internationally. We are in a very good position for Europe, alhamdulillah, in everything from the diagnosis to the treatment of the patients. In matters such as hospitals, intensive care beds, doctors and assistant staff, supplies, equipment, medicines, there is no shortage of us, praise be to God. We also have no problem supplying individual health and cleaning supplies for our citizens. The public is aware that we continue to distribute free masks through various channels. Our health care institutions are capable of dealing with the epidemic both as a diagnosis and as a treatment and as an intensive care unit. In our 1,518 hospitals, which have spread to our 81 provinces, we have 240 thousand beds, with 100,000 singles, and our number of intensive care beds is 40,000, which we add to that. For example, the number of intensive care beds per 100,000 populations in Europe is less than 12%, and that number in our country is close to 50. Even in Germany, which has the largest intensive care bed in Europe, the number does not amount to 30. We are also making significant progress in controlling the epidemic. We're in the top group in the world ranking in the daily and total number of tests.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0056par0242	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0055par0243	On the test, we reached about 35,000 daily, while in total, we rose to over 410,000. According to the test, our case rate is subdirective, praise be to God. We're at the top of the world in terms of the low mortality rate, depending on the number of patients. So far, the number of patients discharged is close to 5,000. With measures, Turkey heads countries that control the epidemic as quickly as possible. As a matter of fact, international organisations, especially the World Health Organization, set an example of our country's fight against the coronavirus epidemic. Not only do we meet the needs of our own citizens, but we try to respond to the call of every country that asks for our support, as much as we can. Dear lawmakers, in addition to the multi-directional and dimensional package of economic stability announced at the beginning of the outbreak, we have so far provided and continue to provide direct cash support for nearly 4.5 million citizens.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0057par0247	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0055par0248	We're preventing layoffs for three months to continue employment. We will also provide salary allowance of $1,170 per month to employees who are unable to receive short work grants or who have been granted a free leave of absence. We've mobilized our workers, our tradesmen, our farmers, our cattle growers, our companies operating in the food industry, and all of society. Our relevant organizations have begun to prepare for the arables from the treasury. We also take all measures to prevent Turkey from being affected by the world's problems with agriculture and food products due to the epidemic. Let's hope we don't leave a pile of unplanted farmland. On this occasion, I wish God's mercy and forgiveness and my condolences to all our citizens who have died of an epidemic or other chronic illness. I wish our citizens, who are being treated in hospitals, who are being quarantined in their homes, to seek immediate healing from Rabb. I give my heartfelt thanks to all of our public officials and volunteers who have worked so hard in areas that make our daily lives easier, especially in health care, food supplies, transportation, communication, energy, and so forth, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0058par0251	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. THE Good PARTI Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 14/4/2020 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. The motion to conduct parliamentary investigations on Tuesday (14/4/2020) in order to address problems in the surgical mask distribution, announced by Group Deputy Chair and İzmir MP Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu as part of the fight against the coronavirus, has been proposed to meet with other proposals on Tuesday (14/4/202020). To explain the reason for the proposal, Mr. Yasin Ozturk is a Denizli MP for the Good PARTY Group. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0059par0268	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers officially met with the corona scourge of our country on March 11th, 2020. We tried to warn the government as much as we could. Why? Because this epidemic didn't just fit our bodies, and it would affect our economy, our citizen's bread, vaccine, psychology. We kept warning about quarantine, we warned about the mask, we warned about electricity, water, natural gas; our shop owner, our employee, who had to be laid off, we warned about our unemployed. There was no need to be a scholar to see that he would become like this; the situation of China, Italy, Iran was evident. On January 31st, on behalf of our party group, we submitted a motion to investigate the immediate prevention of the virus, and as always, you blocked your ears. Our Minister of Health -- in his own mouth -- or perhaps he felt the need to give himself a date in order to remove the only responsibility for his delay in this struggle: We are determined not to compromise our struggle since December 31st. This statement is a very important confession. If the battle against Coronavirus is based on 31 December 2019, then it is necessary to ask: Mr. Minister on March 11th, in a world where people are moving from country to country, some consequences are, unfortunately, impossible to prevent. Even though you knew this disease was spreading from country to country on December 31st, why didn't you close the borders from then on, and why didn't you start quarantine measures from then on? You have brought sickness to no one of our citizens. We can't accuse them of it. But the uncontrollably return of our citizens from abroad and from abroad has been the breaking point for the virus to spread especially to Anatolia. Again, on February 25th, I called from this bench. In our country, mask production is limited, only five companies produce according to standards. The European countries want the masks we have, the masks China has sold us, where will we find masks when the time comes for our own citizen? We also showed you the address, and I even pointed out that the factories in Denizli are ready for the production of masks, reminding you that Denizli is the textile centre of my hometown. Now you're saying: "The beginning of the battle is December 31st. We're in the middle of April, and you still haven't solved the mask problem. Aside from making the mask, if we had enough masks as you claim, you didn't even manage to distribute the mask to the citizens. If you'd like to remind us of the process: First, the limited number of masks fell to the black market, the three-cent mask went up 100 times, the rich one, and the poor one was left in the middle. Then you brought a restraining order; it's true, but it was a late decision. Then you said, "Maske is mandatory. " But for some reason, no one has a mask. You have declared the obligation to wear masks in public transportation, markets, and markets in public areas. By the way, you want production to continue and not stop, just because of that, you've declared a Saturday, Sunday curfew, but you've forgotten about factories, companies with hundreds of employees. You know, when you have to wear masks in public spaces, even these firms don't know where to get the mask right now, where to get it. You've completely banned the mask trade. The manufacturers of the mask... you could at least be flexible to medical institutions and meet the demands of these companies. The mayors took the lead, and they said: "We protect our citizens, we distribute them to our citizens who travel in public transportation." The next day, the government issued a statement: "There is no sale of the mask, we will distribute it." PTT will distribute masks according to the number of people in the household, except under 20 years of age and over 65 years of age. The system is locked in the first minute. Let's do it through the e-state. The e-state is locked. As a result of the unplanned and unpredictable distribution process, PTT was unable to handle the heavy distribution load. He'll have to make a new decision and distribute pharmaceuticals. You said. You're going to the pharmacy. Did you get the password? He didn't show. Why didn't he come? There's so much intensity on the Internet that you can't get into the site, you can't get the password, so you can't get the mask. Come on, you got the password. Is the problem over? No. Because the drugstores don't have masks. Only Ankara and Istanbul -- in certain neighborhoods -- masks are distributed to our citizens between 54 and 65 years of age, and this practice has not been implemented in our remaining 79 provinces. For example, if Akbasoglu asked any pharmacy in Çankırı, he could find out if the mask was distributed. No drugstore in Denizli currently has free mask distribution. I called my pharmacist friends, and they said he wasn't even at the pharmacy where they said he was supposed to deliver. Where will Ayþe, 30 years old in my country, in my neighborhood, Hasan, 40 years old, Nihat Abi, 50 years old, Uncle Rifat, 60, buy this mask? You couldn't even deliver masks to pharmacies, let alone deliver masks to citizens.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0060par0275	Let's move on, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0061par0276	It's not true, the warehouses are sending it to the drugstores.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0059par0277	There's still no pharmacy at the moment. The mask, which is strongly recommended for effective management of the fight against the plague and protection of public health, is currently not available to the citizen with or without money. When he can't even find a mask with his citizen's money, he'll be using a mask that he needs to use for four hours for a week. There's no telling how long the outbreak will last, where it'll stop. You said five masks will be distributed in a week. You couldn't get the mask to 1 percent of the country while you were changing masks every two hours here. These masks are also medical waste. In long-term use, it may even become contagious, let alone a protective feature. You haven't been able to properly inform the citizen about this. Don't let anyone fool you, you've been caught off guard, you've been unable to prevent the spread of the disease, you've never been able to achieve protection measures. We still applaud the health workers for their outstanding success, but you have to admit you can't direct the process properly. He says the government has failed to deliver masks, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0062par0281	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Şanlıurfa MP Omar Ocalan. Here you go, Mr. Ocalan.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0063par0284	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, humanity is fighting an invisible virus today. For human history, this case is not a new case. We will continue to face such crises and viruses unless we give up this notion of humanity, which is the law of hostility with nature, and act with an understanding that takes nature, ecology, into our center. There's no doubt that we're in this circle of humanity, and there's Turkey. We all agree, we're in a deep crisis in every way. So, just looking at the mask, how well or how well the AKP coalition manages this process? I don't think there's any need for a very deep analysis. For a moment, let everyone put their political identity aside and put this mask in front of you and think in detail. We can see the answer by looking at this little mask that we put in front of us. As we look at the mask, we see that the AKP's mask has already fallen. The AKP's mask, however, fell after December 17th-25th, when it surrendered to Ergenekon (Ergenekon), but in this crisis, it also fell down in every way. You'll see a disaster of governance that has not even managed to deliver masks to its citizens. Look, from the very first day until today, you'll see a picture of an irresponsibility of an AKP (AKP) that has yet to be fully planned for the dismantling of this little mask. Let's not go by the mask; when the first crisis package was announced, the AKP revealed its position on the mask that prioritized capital. What was in the package he explained? $100 billion for the capital holders. What about the ring? It's cologne and a mask. Dear friends, we all said: at least they can do it. Neither has he; the AKP, who can't do anything, couldn't even organize this mask distribution. First, they said we'll build a maske buffet and sell it there. Now, without him, they're trying to solve this crisis through pharmacies. Look, we've been working here for a week trying to figure out how to save lives in prisons, but the AKP did what he said, and he got the law he wanted out of here. Now, at least we've asked the prisons to deliver masks and hygiene first, and you've even put an ear to it. Masks in prisons are sold for overpriced prices in the canteen. How cruel is that? Aside from the fact that the mask doesn't go to prison, can it be that the sale is overpriced?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0064par0289	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0063par0290	I don't mean a conscience, but at least put the mask you're using here for free in front of you and think about it. The AKP people know the story of Pharaoh and the fly very well. Just as the little fly has turned the deity of its deity upside down and brought it down, this little mask will take you down in the same way you deserve. Dear President, you're also independent of the subject... Today, April 14th is the 34th anniversary of Enphal. Between 1986 and 1989, around 180,000 Kurds were slaughtered by Saddam dictators in Iraq. We remember those who lost their lives, and we curse the dictator of Saddam Hussein. I wish everyone the best.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0065par0294	İstanbul MP Turan Aydoğan on behalf of Republican People's Party Group. Here they are, Mr. Aydoğan.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0066par0297	I salute the High Council. Your power is learning to shave at our heads, but it's learning at the cost of human life, and the painting in the middle shows it. Now, no matter what we say here, you're going to say: "Everything's fine." You're going to give us recipes like you're going to do a four-quarter-rich Scandinavian country, and I'm afraid we're even giving you the deed to heaven. You're going to say things like that that will put us to sleep. You've already started an argument whether the deceased are martyrs or not, and you can give them the deed to heaven. Sir, you're running a bad process. First you make black marketers rich, then you have to wear a mask. As a lawyer, I said, if you bring this obligation, it's your job as a social government to get it to the public for free. Meanwhile, you've made black marketers rich, masks sold at 10 times the price. Then it occurred to you what we said, that we'd hand out the President for free. You've made a mess of it. The Minister of Commerce said, "There is money everywhere." He said, "We will distribute free money." Meanwhile, one of our number-one experts on infection, Mr. Gaye Becelier, our member of the Party Assembly, said: "Ya, brother, you must distribute these from pharmacies." You've already established a lynching culture in Turkey, which opens its mouth, that your trolls lynch through Ukraine, through Russia. Then again, your late-worker, your late-falling token process, worked, you said: "Let's distribute it from the pharmacy. You can't do it properly. There's gonna be a message on the town's phone. Well, there's a citizen without a phone, there's a citizen without a phone, there's a non-reading citizen, there's a 65-year-old group, there's a 20-year-old group, there's a citizen who can't get out of the street. You screwed that up, and you can't do that right now. There's nothing to brag about. Please, listen to the suggestions of the minds outside of you. Now, as far as we're concerned, one of the main reasons you're having these problems is that you ignore the men other than you. The local authorities welcomed you, wanted to give you these services, wanted to distribute them himself; you blocked everything. You know everything, but you're killing people, and by the way, you're killing everyone because of your inefficiency, your political ambition. Now, you send them to the drugstores. How do you send it? It's in the boxes. You fill it in the box, the pharmacist goes, takes it one by one and distributes it to the citizens. There's a virus going around. There are pharmacists dying right now, pharmacists getting sick right now. As of April 13, 2020, four pharmacists were treated in hospital, 12 pharmacists were quarantined in their homes, 3 pharmacy workers were treated in hospital, 25 pharmacies were quarantined in the hospital, and 5 pharmacists were killed in the hospital, because of your twisted work. But it's very easy, in threes, you could have had them put in bags, hygienically, and as it exited, the citizen would have had a chance to isolate the part of the pharmacist's hand. The pharmacist's hand reaches the point where a citizen can breathe when he's going to deliver it. The citizen is becoming directly infected with the virus you're about to release here.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0067par0304	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0066par0305	Here's the thing: you're destroying this nation with your political ambition. Let the mechanisms work outside of you. Don't be so ambitious, don't be passionate with the lives of so many citizens. We said, "You made the black marketer rich, and then you did all the terrible things." Listen to the people of your minds, please. Look, I'm telling you from here, you can't deal well, so give it away healthy. They're supposed to be in bags, bro. We've distributed 32 million masks, you say. Turkey has 82 million people, let's drop 5 million, 10 million, 60-70 million masks must be distributed once. Even we throw it out here after two or three hours. If they were to use 60-70 million for days, you'd have to distribute it. We gave away 32 million masks. You brag here, you play with the health of the people, you play with the future. You'll have to deal with God from now on. I know you won't listen to us, no matter what we say, but I hope you'll pay your dues in the sight of God. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0068par0309	Hatay MP Haci Bayram Türkoğlu on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here they are, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0069par0312	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the group proposal given by the well-being of the lawmakers. I salute your high council. First of all, Mr. Haydar Prime Minister of the Party of Independent Turkey who died today, I ask God's mercy, my condolences to all his family and relatives, and his place is in heaven. On this occasion, I ask for the mercy of all our citizens who have lost their lives. Now, there's a group suggestion today that surgical masks aren't disbanded enough, that there's a problem with distribution. I'd like to share some information with you. At the moment, general distribution is being made through USHAS, between the ages of 20 and 65 years of age. Again, the masks sent to our people through warehouses will be distributed free of charge via the Turkish Pharmaceutical Union through 26,000 pharmacies. Of course, when you go to the pharmacy, a citizen, first of all, will have applied through the e-government, he gets an SMS; he has the opportunity to identify himself at the pharmacy. In Istanbul, Izmir and Ankara, distribution began through our pharmacies' Association of Turkish Pharmaceuticals through our pharmacies. Today -- I've also met with the authorities -- all distribution channels will be open, through our pharmacies, over 26,000 pharmacies, and these free masks will be distributed to our people again. Of course, you shouldn't underestimate it when you say "maske." I would also like to address our nation from here: Now, each of us thinks of ourselves as a potential positive coronavirus, and I want to express to him that we must protect ourselves and protect the opposite -- as a society, in a sense -- so that our environment will not be affected by the coronavirus. It's 70 percent affected by people who don't wear masks, but if one of them is wearing masks, the one with no mask is 5 percent affected -- even if there's a 1 meter distance between us -- and if there's a mask on either side, it's down to 1.5%.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0070par0317	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0069par0318	Thank you. It is useful for our society to act with this sensitivity. We're witnessing our people do it at maximum, meticulously, and we're grateful to our community for that. Yeah, well, hopefully, as a nation, we're in the middle of a national day of solidarity. You know, there's a saying that the migration will get better and better. Now, we're dealing with a global epidemic. Our country has been seriously affected by this, and we, through our scientific boards, before, will be able to get rid of this coronavirus case together, with our health minister working one-on-one and all his delegation night and day, of course, with our president's instructions, and with the zeal of a total mobilization, we will all be able to do it together, with the least hope that we will get rid of it as a Turkish nation.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0071par0322	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0069par0323	Of course, we're going through a period where we need unity the most. At this time, as a helper to each other, by paying attention to our social distances socially, by paying attention to the rules established by our Science Council, our authority agencies, hopefully, as a nation, we'll get through this disease together, and I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0071par0325	Those who accept the group proposal... those who refuse... are not accepted. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 14/4/2020 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 11 April 2020, Diyarbakır MP Semra Güyü and his friends (6329 rows) suggested that the distribution of the corona virus tests, according to the provinces, be met with the criteria of this distribution, to investigate whether there is an inter-departmental discrimination within health policies, and that the parliamentary motion to the Turkish Grand National Assembly should be passed before other proposals. To explain the motive of the proposal, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Ağrı MP Diryet Dilan Taşdemir. Here you go, Mr. Stonedemir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0072par0339	Thank you, Mayor. First, I respect those who lost their lives in the Enphal massacre, a genocide. Dear friends, when the outbreak of the coronavirus began, the Turkish Medical Association, the Health Workers' Union, particularly the World Health Organization, has actually stated that one of the main ways to combat this epidemic is to do a common test. But, unfortunately, we are also faced with a serious resistance in this regard. When the promise of the job came out, when the demands started to come in, the tests started to be done, but in the 32-day period, there were 410,566 tests. These are not tests based on the number of people, because we know that sometimes one person can be tested more than one. Still, the logic of testing is actually based on patients, so the usual suspects are not being tested, so there's still some uncertainty as to who the suspects are and whether they should be quarantined. But in a similar way, the whole world is fighting this plague. For example, we know that there are nearly 200,000 tests a day in Germany. Again, dear friends, many in the fight against the coronavirus, we have repeatedly stressed how important it is to actually conduct a transparent process, but there is still a mystery to it. 83 million people are looking at the health minister at midnight to find out what's going on. Again, a Science Council has been created, yes, we know that the decisions of this Science Council are not shared by the public. The decisions go to the palace first, the palace looks at the decisions, and if he sees fit, yes, let's do it. He says, if he doesn't see fit, it's not already done. And we don't know what's being suggested. The crisis on Friday itself was actually a sign of that. Obviously, you can't handle this crisis, you're deepening it. Again, dear friends, we don't know by what criteria the tests are being sent to the provinces and provinces, and how they're being distributed. How many cases are there, how many have been tested, what's the death rate, we don't know anything about it. Information provided by health departments alone is shared by public opinion based on specific criteria. Yes, you're having a crisis in fighting the coronavirus, you can't manage it, there's a problem like this throughout Turkey, but this crisis is much deeper and more severe in Kurdish provinces. Even in this regard, there is serious discrimination. Look, friends, the population of Diyarbakır is nearly 1,800,000. I'm telling you that there have been 500 tests in Diyarbakır, 500 in Batman, 500 in Bitlis, 200 in Bingol, 450 in Urban Provinces, 1,100 in Van. These are statements from the Health Department. Frankly, it's also a question of how much truth it reflects. So in the first weeks of the outbreak, not even the cities I mentioned were tested, and then the tests started being sent out. For example, in Batman, the tests made in Siirt have been sent to Diyarbakır, but really, on the way here, in what conditions do these tests go, how do they apply, how do the results and return come back, and this is a serious uncertainty. In fact, not even doctors could see the results of recent tests, but they also began to see this as a result of the recent public pressure, the debate. A curfew is declared in 3 major cities: Diyarbakır, Van., Mardin. Again, in some areas, in and out are banned, but people who live here are not tested. What's the motive? Why such an application is foreseen, and it is a subject of discussion. Dear friends, again, health workers have actually worked very hard in this process, they've fought hard, and I'd like to thank them once again on behalf of our party. But the health workers are working under such difficult conditions, and on top of that, you're making it difficult for them. While power should be transparent, the health organisation, health workers, while the government is trying to take over. Here, the chairman of the Şanlıurfa Medical Chamber, again the President of the Mardin Medical Chamber, has been subjected to an investigation stemming from sharing information from their sharing of the process. So about health workers, just clapping, running this process with such populist politics is not the answer, so give up this approach. Health workers in particular have very, very serious problems in this process; housing problems, transportation problems.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0073par0349	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0072par0350	I'm ending it, Mayor. Again, the health workers in this area still haven't reached this rapid lockdown. Hence, we feel that by giving up the easyness of applause, we need to step up to health workers as soon as possible. Again, dear friends, we believe that the number of tests that the Ministry of Health has announced, the cities where the tests have been conducted, and the mortality rates have raised doubts about public health. We'd like the House to set up a research commission on this matter, so I'd like to ask that this motion of ours be supported. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0074par0355	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Fikret Şahin, Balıkesir MP. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0075par0358	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Before I begin my speech, I would like to express my condolences and patience to Mr. Haydar Başaş, chairman of the Independent Turkey Party, who died today because of the coronavirus infection, and to Mr. Ugurcan Demir, who died yesterday at the age of 27 because of the coronavirus infection. Sir, you know, there's been a two-day, 48-hour curfew this weekend that doesn't make much sense. Meanwhile, our citizens flocked to markets to meet their urgent needs due to this unplanned curfew. They had to go out to buy diapers for their children, to buy milk, to provide for their emergency patients. Unfortunately, those who held their corners in the newspaper, who thought they were writers, responded this way to our citizens who went out on the street, and they were able to insult our citizens by calling them retards from their corners. I'd like to ask you from here, the ruling party officials, who are these people that are dry and we call them writers, who get the power to insult our citizens, and who do they feed on, I'd like to ask you that. Again, we also experienced an incident in Balıkesir, my own constituency, as these writers refer to it. Again, because of the curfew, the mayor of Balıkesir Metropolitan has answered a question to him: "Don't go out; neither did the young people listen nor the weak citizens of EYT. I.E.T.P.S., who have served our citizens in the time the state has predicted for this country, have shed the sweat of their own, and have been stripped of their pension rights due to the change of the law during their term, and have insulted our citizens of these 5.5 million, which have been denied, and unfortunately, they have insulted our citizens by saying that they have not been able to work. Of course, I personally regret that this is the way the province, which we call the capital of Kuvaymilliya, is brought up. Again, I'd like to make a statement here -- I think -- the president's slip of the tongue. Mr. President: We don't have a problem with maske. When we enter the bank, when we enter the workplace, why give it to those who will go out on the street?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0076par0366	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0075par0367	Again, I think it's probably a slip of the tongue, but even when we go to the grave, we give masks. Of course, I think he was going to say the tomb, but of course, it reflects a subconscious thought. What does that mean? It's the idea of burying a citizen before he's dead, so it's the idea of the existing AKP mentality. We don't have a mask at work. When you say, "Sir, we're wearing masks." It's the same thing to say, "We're going to the grave." Our people don't deserve this government. Yeah, we're saying that you can't control the crisis, beyond that, you can't run the country anymore. The citizen will give you the answer as soon as possible, I hope. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0076par0370	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Malatya MP Öznur Çukık. Here you go, Mr. Çurk.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0077par0372	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) to discuss whether or not there is discrimination between the regions in health policies. First, I pray to God once again for the mercy of our citizens who died of the coronavirus and for the immediate healing of our patients. First of all, the road that we have made in health with Turkey and Turkey before it, in today's Turkey, is a process that is appreciated by all the states of the world. The most important thing we've done in 18 years of health policy is to offer equal health care to 83 million of our people. With the reform we've done in the social security system in particular, we've raised the percentage of our citizens who took advantage of health in 2002 from 67 per cent to 100 per cent today. So with general health insurance, he's getting treatment at any hospital he wants from our citizens, he's getting equal health care. And while we're doing these equal health care services, today we're doing another very important success due to the pandemic of the coronavirus. From the first day the Coronavirus began, we're among the countries in the world, especially the measures we've taken before. We know that our number of tests, specifically for coronavirus detection, has reached 410,000 today, and at the point where our test rate is increasing, our daily rate of death rate is dropping, our case rate of intensive care is dropping, and the number of patients who have been treated has risen to 1,843. These are the numbers we gave for 81 provinces. However, when we look at the motion provided by HDP (HDP), first of all, the figures he gave, particularly the speaker, are not true. As always, by lying to the Council, unfortunately, he's deceiving our nation.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0078par0376	You're lying!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0077par0377	Now, first of all, why is the test being done? [[Noises from HDP rows]] Please listen... Look, we're trying to keep people alive, and you're giving them fear.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0079par0382	Indeed, you are in the wrong, while you see [it].
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0077par0383	You take a megaphone in your hand and kill the Kurds, and that's why he made the plague. You go door-to-door. We travel to keep people alive, we struggle to keep people alive. [[From the AK PARTY, the voices, the applause; the noise from HDP rows]] Look, our philosophy is to keep the people alive so that the government can live.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0080par0387	You answer the question, answer the question!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0081par0388	Your philosophy is death, death, death!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0077par0389	We'll keep you alive no matter what the locals say. First you'll learn to keep a man alive!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0082par0391	Complete.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0077par0392	In the numbers you've given me, I'd like to point out first.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0083par0394	You are a disgrace to the Republic of Turkey, a disgrace to the government!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0077par0395	If there's a case, if there are people involved, we'll continue to run tests. The numbers you gave me in the provinces: you said about Diyarbakir -- if I don't remember correctly -- 500. Diyarbakır has been tested 1,334 times.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0084par0396	Mashallah, that's a lot!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0077par0397	Look, it doesn't matter if it's too much. Guys, I'm a paramedic, I've been a medic for 30 years, and I'm a pharmacist. In the Covid process, the Minister of Health, especially my President, has fought an incredible battle. We're having an incredible struggle with the procurement of the masks, the treatment of the tests. We'll give the test, medicine, treatment to all citizens in the country, free of charge, whether it's covered by social security or not, in the decree issued by Mr. President last night. Turkey will teach the world how to be a social state. [[Noises from CHP and HDP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] (Batman) It's a lie! Lies! Lies!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0085par0401	You didn't, people died, people died! People are dead!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0086par0402	Complete.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0077par0403	Mr. President, my last words. Precious MPs, my final word: Look, this Covid-19 process is a process that no country has expected. But there's a word the World Health Organization tells the world: Turkey is the country that handles this process best, Turkey is the country that gives the most transparent data, Turkey is the country that makes up the best treatment system.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0087par0406	Lies! Lies!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0077par0407	Turkey is the country that established city hospitals. Turkey is the country that builds hospitals that our doctors, such as lions, serve, not like the field hospitals in Adana. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I salute the entire House. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0088par0411	Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0089par0414	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, right now, you have to watch your language when you're having the argument. You're lying to the deputy who spoke on this stand. Of course we're returning his statement, it's not going to happen. Now, in the middle...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0090par0417	Not 500, 1,300.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0089par0418	Sir, listen to me for a minute. I'll tell you why I said it. It's not appropriate because if there's a story about lying, I mean, we can't compete with you, you'll come first. You lie to everyone in the country and society all the time. Not one, not three, not five, but hundreds, but now it's different. Sir, number one: this data may be incomplete because transparency is not complete. I gave him some data the other day. Where do we get it? We can learn from the City Health Department. When the City Health Department doesn't give you enough data, it's missing data. Our deputy said 500. He said he was your deputy. What are we talking about? We're talking about Diyarbakir, where 1.5 million people live. So there have been 1,300 tests in Diyarbakır, where 1.5 million people live.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0090par0420	But not 500...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0091par0421	It's an insult!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0089par0422	Ours was 500. It's the same thing. 1,300 is a meaningful number? In a city of 1.5 million people, we had 1,300 tests done. What are you bragging about? Aren't those people there?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0092par0424	So there's no suspect, he's a suspect.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0093par0425	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0089par0426	Second: What will the people of Diyarbakır trust, especially what you say and do? Do you forget what happened to Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality in the days of this outbreak? On that day, on the days of the outbreak, you appointed trustees to eight of our municipalities. Stay in the house. Since people didn't believe what you said, we went from neighborhood to neighborhood and told people, "Aman, stay in the house." Because they don't believe what you say, and they don't know why you're saying it; they think there must be trouble. Why? They don't trust power.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0094par0428	Get out of here! It's not like it's a segregated language. You can't have a segregated tongue like that, you know!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0089par0429	Yeah. Look, Mr. Special, in the days of the outbreak, you appointed trustees to eight municipalities.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0095par0431	That's different! That's another thing!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0089par0432	People don't trust what they trust.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0096par0434	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0089par0435	Now, the last one. I mean, really, you were the best one to lead the crisis. It wouldn't be such a clumsy administration. We had an argument here the other day, how did you declare curfew? It was up to the resignations. Such a clumsy crisis management is nowhere else to be found. We also say that you suggested the wrong measures, the late measures came from you, the insufficient measures came from you. We criticize them all the time. What are you bragging about? Sir, the World Health Organization says that Turkey is the best in the world. You tell it to our cone, and we see how you run it. So there's no point in having these arguments, so let me just say it one more time. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0096par0438	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0097par0440	Mr. President, our valued lawmakers have made it clear that this does not reflect the truth, and what is the truth, as is our esteemed MP, who has just responded to the HDP group proposal. This is a clear situation, a clear information that anyone can learn from the Diyarbakır City Health Directorate. It's a real shame to make such an argument. As a result, the number of tests is clear, as well as 1,334 in Diyarbakır, 340 in Bingley, and 1,033 in Şanlıurfa. So if there's no case...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0098par0441	It's not a case. In many counties, the cities have been quarantined.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0097par0442	Dear friends, look, if there is no complaint, if there is no complaint, there is no demand for it anyway, there is no need for any complaint, but according to the decision of the President's office, whatever it takes to be evaluated by the authorities, whether it's in the southeast or the east or the west, whether it's in the Black Sea, whether it's in the Mediterranean or in the 81 provinces, everyone in the United States is covered by social security, for the entire 83 million of our people, and according to the decision of our entire nation -- whether it's social security or not -- it's all about drugs -- it's all about free treatment, it's all about Covi.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0099par0444	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0097par0445	As a result, those with social security in the United States are treated as Covid-19 for $9,000, without social security for $34,000, and that is the difference between Turkey and Turkey. Turkey has a free treatment for a whole nation. (AK PARTY) This difference, God willing, is not the greatest achievement of every father, which is the achievement of the AK PARTY. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0099par0448	Dear Oluç...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0100par0450	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, this is about the test in Diyarbakir, and I'll be in other cities. First of all, if you want to do this one by one, let's count the provinces you're talking about -- Diyarbakir, Bingöl, Urbana, let's get the list out.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0101par0452	Those are the provinces in your motion to investigate.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0100par0453	Excuse me for a minute, I'll tell you, let's compare... sir, let's compare... so how many tests have been conducted in the places of Diyarbakır, Bingöl, Urbana, Şırnak, etc. according to the population?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0101par0454	Mr. President, no case, no test required.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0100par0455	Number two: how many tests were done in the West? So let's see if we can figure this out. Diyarbakır Medical Chamber announced the other day that the number of tests in Diyarbakir is not enough. Why? Because he said the number of positives was 200. So 1,334 tests were done. You say, well, 200 of them came out positive. What do we call you? The number of tests is insufficient. That's what we're talking about. Thus, more tests must be taken. 1,756 thousand people live in Diyarbakır according to official figures. What in God's name is 1,334 tests in a city where 1 million, 756 thousand people live? So let's rate the provinces, there's an inequality here, there's an inequality here. That's what we're talking about, you don't want to hear it. Let's see if we can scale all the counties one by one with numbers from the county health departments.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0102par0457	Yeah, well, it's proportional to the case, so it's proportional to the population.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0100par0458	You'll see how big this inequality is. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There are positives in Ankara, but you're saying that the people in Diyarbakir are very immune, so they're not positive for him? Is that even possible? The lack of carelessness is obvious.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0103par0459	You come up with ideas without knowledge.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0104par0460	It's based on the algorithm, the algorithm.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0105par0461	Mr. Osman, the Home Secretary is back; they won't make you minister, don't shout. They'll never make you minister again, that's for sure.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0106par0462	Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0107par0464	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. Let's look at the comparisons shown by our counterpart: Look, the ratio in Antalya is 1.53% compared to the population; the ratio in Kütahya is 1,38; the ratio in Kütahya is 1,32 in Kırşehir; the ratio in Afyonkarahisar is 1,31 in Afyonkarahisar; the number in the Silverhouse is 1.26. So wherever there are cases, Turkey has a helping hand and support hand.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0108par0467	Tell him about Diyarbakir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0107par0468	Diyarbakır is 0.76; Hatay is 0.76; Siirt is 0.32.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0109par0469	What do you mean, 0.32?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0107par0470	So, dear friends, this is the ratio of this to the case, compared to the population, all the ratios are here. Therefore, there can never be any discrimination here. Unfortunately, those who reveal it may have discrimination in their hearts, ideas, and rhetoric. The state of the Republic of Turkey is one of 83 million, together with the province of 81 million, a brother, with a state-national convergence, and hopefully, despite everything, he will be able to overcome the coronavirus. [AK PARTY rankings ▪Bravobooks, applause; CHP and GOOD PARTY welcomes (!)
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0110par0471	Dear Oluç...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0111par0473	Thank you, Mr. President. With the numbers you've given me, you've actually pointed out that that's exactly what we're saying, and it's beautiful. Did you say 1.5 percent in Antalya? Did I hear you right? You said one and a half, didn't you? Antalya is one and a half; it's beautiful. The number of tests should be more than that, when we're in Antalya...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0112par0475	According to the number of tests.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0111par0476	Wait a minute, sir, I'll tell you. Now, look, what is the time when you compare the number of tests in Diyarbakır to the population? Seven out of ten thousand, seven out of ten! There's equality there." he says. 1.5 per cent in Antalya, 7 per 10,000 in Diyarbakir. What's the equal? That's what we're talking about, that's what I'm talking about, you guys are a great example. Math shows the truth. The issue we're discussing here is that you're talking as if all of Turkey is so equal. Is that a situation? Unemployment: Where is the most unemployed? Poverty: Where is the most poverty? Where is regional inequality? That's all there is to it. You're being inequal with the Coronavirus, and that's what we're telling you. If you listen to this and say: "Yes, there is a truth here, and the number of tests must be increased. This is the ministry. We did it." You didn't do it; it's seven out of ten.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0112par0478	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0113par0479	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0112par0481	Mr. President, I have the entire painting according to the provinces. Look, there have been close to 180,000 tests in Istanbul; the population is 15 million, the ratio is 11.57. Why? Because there's too many cases, too many cases. There's an approach to doing tests due to the number of cases, and there are complaints about complaints at this point, and there are more tests to be conducted, according to him. That's where the proportions come in. So the more cases there are, the more tests there are. This has nothing to do with the population. So there are proportions that have variables. Whatever needs to be done is done with that precision all over Turkey, and it will continue to be done. That's what I'm trying to tell you, thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0114par0483	There are no three speeches in the same text!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0113par0484	One moment, sir... Dear Oluç, in one sentence, please.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0115par0487	One sentence, sir, I'm finishing. Mr. Akbasoglu, the way to understand that there are many cases is to increase the tests, so it started with 500 tests all over Turkey, and now it's up to over 30,000. So we see that the number of cases is increasing. The more tests are done, the more it turns out to be a case, the more you don't know when you don't get tested.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0116par0489	Yeah, we need an algorithm for testing.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0117par0490	Mr. President, I want to talk to you about bullying.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0118par0491	I'll give you my word on your position.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0117par0492	Let me speak from the bench, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0118par0493	Yes, Mr. Stonedemir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0119par0494	No, sir!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0120par0495	What did he say to you? What did he say, and you went out with him?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0121par0496	Don't shout, it doesn't happen when you yell too loud, so you're not right.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0122par0497	Here you go, Mr. Stonedemir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0121par0500	Thank you, Mayor. Guys, I've shared numbers from the City Health Department. So now, because all state institutions work like your county, county agencies, you're able to access that data day by day, and I've already criticized it here. I mean, look, in our own counties as surrogates, we don't know the number of cases, the number of tests, we don't know the mortality rate. I've already shared with you that there is no transparency in this matter. Now, you're where he's supposed to answer to, when you're supposed to be answering, yelling, calling, covering it up like you're at a rally. Look, I'm asking you again, what criteria did you apply when you sent these tests to the provinces? It's a simple question, and you can answer it. Why did the tests go so late to these provinces and Kurdish provinces? You can answer that. Still, there's no rapid testing, so why isn't it being implemented? You can't get out of this by attacking, yelling, calling, insulting, instead of answering this. Let me tell you one last thing: perception, lies, manipulation is your job.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0123par0503	Get out of here!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0121par0504	We can't fight you on this, I swear. You're the first in this, and you haven't had that kind of power yet, so let me put it this way.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0123par0506	"The liar," he said.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0121par0507	I didn't say liar, I said business.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0124par0508	Dear friends...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0125par0509	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0124par0510	Mr. Eronat, your Group Chairman would like a word.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0126par0511	What's going on with you? Your group vice president is there.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0127par0512	He wanted to talk about his place.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0124par0513	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0127par0514	In the speech presented by the HDP MP earlier, he is lying about our MP's statements. There is a taunt due to his adjective. He's not going to respond to bullying, he's going to explain...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0128par0515	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0129par0516	It's your job. I said, you're lying. I didn't say that.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0130par0517	Wait a minute, wait a minute... Mr. Eronat, do you have anything to add?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0131par0519	Why are you promising him?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0130par0520	One second, one second, sir... Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0132par0524	Mr. President, thank you for promising me first. Now, let's get this straight: Kurdish provinces... I want to say that as a Kurdish, there are no more Kurds in Istanbul than there are in Turkey.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0133par0527	How come it's yours? You bought yourself a deed?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0132par0528	Now, the other thing is that today we have the capacity to do 500 tests a day at Diyarbakir Hospital for Education and Research and Dicle University. Now, 1,334 tests have been conducted so far. Now, how do you run these tests? He's being tested for coughing, respiratory failure, respiratory distress, high fever complaints, and a crawl. Now, if people are healthy, if they don't go to health care, is it Diyarbakir's fault? Is it not a good thing for Diyarbakir that there are fewer dead in Diyarbakır, that there are fewer patients with coronaviruses?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0133par0529	You hide it, you hide it!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0134par0530	Don't flex!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0132par0531	Why are you being unfair to Diyarbakır?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0135par0534	Thank you, Mr. Eronat.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0136par0535	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0135par0536	It's clear...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0137par0537	The liar from the stand. He said, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0136par0538	Mr. President, let's...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0135par0539	We'll take a vote, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0136par0540	I'm making this statement, Mr. President, that the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0138par0541	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0135par0542	Well, let's invite the group to a quiet first, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0136par0543	I'm asking all of our friends to focus their attention here, and look -- let the prisoners take over -- the bottom and bottom line is: is there a case in the 81 province that has not been tested in the smallest place, because of anyone else's illness?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0139par0544	I do.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0140par0545	I do.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0139par0546	Just because there's a case in Ankara, you don't test the paramedics so they don't get too far.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0141par0547	There is never and there is no floor; it can only be an approach to diverting the matter from its truth, from its reality. Other than that, there is no validity, no veracity of any claim. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0142par0552	I submit the group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Tuesday 14/4/2020 (now) I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. Ankara MP Tekin Bingöl and his friends have proposed parliamentary research on 14/4/2020 to prevent unfair use of state resources, to determine the outcome of money transferred to associations and foundations known for its proximity to power (1735 rows). lu) has been proposed to take over the other proposals and hold talks on Tuesday (14/4/2020/2020). On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group to explain the reason for the proposal, Ankara MP Tekin Bingöl. Here you are, Mr. Bingöl.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0143par0565	On June 23, 2019, Mr Ekrem Imamoglu won the Istanbul Metropolitan Mayor's election for the 2nd time. One of the first things he did after I sat down was to examine the accounts and files that came to his attention in the sense of human-oriented and social-democratic municipalism. A table came out, an extraordinary amount of money was transferred to associations and foundations; there is a huge transfer of money to 17 foundations, along with foundations that have been founded in some unknown or recent years. Now, two of these foundations have been involved in another discussion recently. One of them is TÜRGAV, which I've just told you about -- the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality and other municipalities -- where there is serious cash flow and land allocation from the public -- and the other is the Ensar Foundation, where when we hear the name of the children's moans ring in our ears. Now, these two foundations, which are focused on serving with contributions, are opening up a trust abroad, mind-blowingly. 2 Foundations form a foundation in the United States in 2014. Between 2014 and 2018, there's a $56.5 million cash flow to this foundation, so it's a four-year foundation, over $384 million.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0144par0566	Mr. Bingöl, how much do you give the artists...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0143par0567	That's a lot of money. We need to find out how this money was transferred, who it was transferred by. Dear friends, the study of our representative in the United States revealed that in 2018 there was only a $22.5 million cash in entry into this Turkish currency; that makes 153 million Turkish lira; and here is the document. There's a $22.5 million transfer from Turkey to the Turkish Foundation in America. So, what does this foundation do, what does it do? One gives a gala dinner every year, this gala dinner costs over $100,000, and what's interesting is that it's for tickets, it's food made by selling tickets, but come on, it's worth 30 or 40 grand. Second, New York builds a super luxury skyscraper in New York, which costs $15 million, only land. What else does he do? In Michigan, he buys the farm of legendary boxer Muhammad Ali. For $2.5 million. So you're going to say, "What does a Turkish-born foundation need to buy farms in America?" The idea is: There was a farm in Pennsylvania, someone was driving there months ago, someone was making an appointment, and now, is another farm in Michigan?" Interesting... That's what he does. This money, it's a hell of a lot of money, but something else has come up. Turns out Reda gave some money to the President, good. But this money was transferred somewhere through the Ensar Foundation. Where? Here's the last time the Turkken Foundation in America and the Ensar Foundation had to confess: "Yes, I sent four times two million dollars, eight million dollars to this foundation. " Good, good, but these $8 million are not in the US IRS records. What kind of money transfer is this? Interesting... then, dear friends, this is $22.5 million either a foundation or a person's one-handed money; it's important, it's important to investigate. What else? We're looking at Red, a charity paid by the General Managers of 30,000 to 40,000 liras, their advisors, Hilali Ahmer. There's been a 6.7 billion-dollar charity in the last three years. How beautiful, how beautiful. But there's a 32-fold increase. So something is being transmitted through the Red Moon to these foundations and associations. What do we do now?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0145par0573	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0143par0574	We, Parliament, don't just make laws. That's what we need to investigate, that's what we need to find out. You know, we're saying that it's the right of an unfinished orphan, you know, the duty of a worker, an officer, a peasant, a businessman, a decent industrialist, and that's what we owe as Parliament. We'll settle this. Where does this money go, where does this tax go? Here, dear friends, it's a waste of time. We'll have to investigate them to identify them. We've all got a big problem, we've all got HDP MPs, MHP lawmakers, good PARTI lawmakers, AK PARTI lawmakers. We all have to search for the rights of this undying orphan so as not to be subjected to this plague. So this research proposal we're giving you is extremely important. This plague, we will not be partners in this irregularity; we have not been before, we will not be partners in it because the resources of the funds given to these foundations need to be identified. Look, I just mentioned $22.5 million, only the money that was transferred to TURKEN in 2018. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0146par0580	Let's finish it, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0143par0581	It's only $70,000, what's the rest of the big money? Public resources. Public resources, money from Turkey. There's no way to prove otherwise, and there's no way to argue otherwise. If the opposite is to be argued, there will be a research commission, MPs in parliament will meet, and they will question the question. What's the use? If they're wrong, if they're question marks in their heads, they're gone, they're all cleared. We'd be doing these guys a favor. However, if this is true, if this is what we're telling you and what we don't know is still behind the scenes, then it's the burden of the House of Parliament to answer for it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We're here to pay off this debt, and I'm inviting everyone to support this research motion, and I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0146par0585	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Adana MP Tulay Hatimlari Oruç. Here you are, Mr. Hathimsons, fasting.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0147par0588	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been talking about the execution of criminal and security measures for seven days. Hundreds of thousands of people have been waiting for the results of these coronavirus days in prisons, but this Parliament has signed with the Cumhur Alliance: Continue persecution, continue to show no respect for human life. I'd like to extend my regards to all the people in prison, our co-Chairs, our deputies, our co-chairs, and all the political prisoners. Dear friends, in the history of Turkey, the best-selling power of the AKP is the AKP's government, which makes the most privatisation. I'd like to sort out a number of institutions -- that I won't be able to keep up with all of them -- for hours, maybe days -- to sort out these lists: TECEL, SECA, some of the banks, ports, fertilizer industries, sugar factories, power distribution companies and plants. As much property that currently belongs to Turkey, which belongs to the public, has been sold during this time of power, so electricity bills are now expensive. That's why the farmer got weaker, so agriculture got weaker, and the whole of Turkey should know that. They said, "The Fund of Presence has been taken out of one pocket and taken out of another pocket, which is likely to be audited, which is bound to be accountable; and the Fund of Being is put in its pocket." What's all this? Like Agriculture Bank, BOTAS, PTT, TÜRKSAT, TÜRK TELEKOM, ETI MADEN, CHAKUR, they've all been transferred to the Entity Fund. What was the point here? It was to increase employment, reduce unemployment and reduce public debt. When we looked at it after the Fund of Being, unemployment increased, employment declined exponentially, and public debt increased exponentially. Look, in these cases, even in these pandemic days, Turkey is still bidding as if all Turkey had not known the day of the coronavirus, wearing a mask, as part of the Canal Istanbul Project, which the public challenged for economic reasons and ecological reasons. Yeah, the backdrops are gone. TERGEV, the Ensar Foundation, which is notorious for child molestation, and the foundations that have stepped into many corruption, have committed many corruption. Why are they building these foundations? Because they want to run informal politics with these foundations; they do these foundations in the same way, to raise family companies, to raise support companies, to increase their ships.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0148par0592	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0147par0593	Look, here you're going to appoint trustees to the city elected by the people's will, you're going to block the accounts of the municipalities who are campaigning for solidarity, you're going to shut down the city's soup kitchens, but you're going to transfer the money that this country, 82 million citizens, whatever it has, to your supporters and your foundations. Once again, we would like to make this call: in these days of the coronavirus, the tender must be halted, the payments to supporters, contractors, the unnecessary payments to these foundations, and the opportunities of this country must be mobilized to fight the coronavirus. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0148par0596	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Kilis MP Mustafa Hilmi Dülger. Here you go, Mr. Dulger.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0149par0599	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my AK PARTY Group on the CHP Group's motion. I salute the High Council and all our MPs. Before we begin my words, at a historic moment in which we are passing through, I ask God's mercy to all our citizens, to all our health workers, who died of this virus in the moment that the Covid-19 plague envelops the entire world. On behalf of myself, my people, and my country, I give thanks to all the health workers, the police, all the city workers, who bring their nights into the day. Mr. President, the valuable MPs are 21st century, a century where NGOs are a little bit more prominent. Thus, there is also a century in which nonprofits and non-governmental NGOs also stand out. Thus, the tasks of these NGOs are increasing day by day. First, NGOs, mentioned in the U.N. contract in 1945, are, in fact, the institutions that existed a long time ago in Turkish Islamic culture. I saw today when I was doing my research that in 1321 -- something very similar to today and today -- there was a foundation in Sivas. It is fundamentally based on the motto that the sons of this nation, which is the origin of this culture, will, of course, act according to the motto taken by their profession. Of course, those who act against the law in the state of law will again face sanctions as a requirement of the principles of the state of law, but I would like to point out one thing. In his speech, I expect the support of all MPs. We all see that 132 of the 139 Republican People's Party MPs did not participate. So let no one expect us to support this proposal, which even they do not support. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0150par0605	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0151par0606	Here you are, Mr. Bingöl.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0150par0609	The motion was granted by the will of all 139 MPs mentioned by the Hatib. Here, if there are no lawmakers, there are no half of 300-odd AKP MPs. You remember last week, when you asked for a roll call, the AKP had a number that couldn't even round up 200 people. Now it's absurd to say that you don't have enough support for our group proposal. We, along with our friends here, studied, evaluated this group's proposal. One hundred and thirty-nine of our fellow lawmakers have the will.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0152par0611	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0151par0612	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0152par0613	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, for the record, we discussed the execution package at the General Assembly for seven days straight. We've been asked to do at least three or four rounds every day, and since we've been working for seven straight days, that means our group is here in full force. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0151par0615	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Good PARTY Group, Samsun MP Bedri Yaşar. Here you go, Mr. Yasar.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0153par0621	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our grand delegation. One of the saddest issues of Turkey's recent years is that the foundation is beginning to lose its lofty position in the hearts and minds. Man's tradition of giving his material existence to the benefit of the community is quite old, with an honorable spiritual decision. This tradition of forgiveness has found its most special meaning in the hands of the Muslim Turkish nation. We have come to these days when education, eating, drinking, sleeping are free of charge; in the caravans of the foundation there are services without distinction; in the Seljudite foundations, helping socially the poor, the elderly, the disabled, and the sick in prison. When you call it a foundation today, it comes to things like profit by avoiding taxes, exclusion from certain challenges while investing, and chicken protection from geese. Dear lawmakers, this is a situation that has hurt our lives in the destruction of our cultural fortresses, the destruction of our spiritual defense lines one by one. With the laws placed one by one in the bag law, we're also investigating the loss of the functions of the Foundation's General Directorate, which is the institution that operates the ancient foundation. We understand that these amendments are the result of a misappropriation account, based on the rapid progress of the foundations established by your friends and friends. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's no need to mention their names. You are from me, and you are not. The decisions are made through the contacts established with these foundations, and the man who serves them collects and grows them. There's no word that they're helping, that they're making useful, critical moves to society. Dear friends, especially today, the head of the Kızılay, says our blood supply is low. Do you think it's common? I assure you, the reduction in blood donations to Redaya is directly linked to the fact that this distinguished institution has been used in method and method of tax evasion or tax evasion. As a result, we can say that such feelings should not be damaged. Let's do the help today through the city, and let's do it through the accounts that our President opened, but no matter where we do it, I don't think this great Turkish nation, with hundreds of foundations, with hundreds of foundations, shouldn't hurt the feelings of charity, not file it. So I'm thinking that whoever, wherever he is, whatever he's trying to help, he shouldn't be in the way of that.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0154par0630	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0153par0631	I am, Mr. President. Mr. Akbasoglu is not in the living room again. Maybe he'll hear it now. So as of today's situation, in Çankırı, you know, the economic conditions are a little difficult. Our barber was raided, his scissors were seized in the garage, and he was fined 3,000 liras. I'm picking on you from here. Mr. Akbasoglu, look, the conditions are heavy, the tradesman's situation is difficult. Take the scissors of our dear barber, return them, and pay the fine yourself. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0155par0635	Those who accept the group proposal... those who refuse... are not accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Tuesday 14/4/2020 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Vice President In the absence of 48 hours of the Law Proposal 212, which has been distributed under pressure, the agenda will be taken to the 1st place of "The Law Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions," and the order of other tasks shall be considered according to this. On Tuesday, April 14, 2020 (today) until the completion of the talks of Law Proposal No. 212; On Tuesday (April 14, 2020), the Law Proposal 212 will continue to work until the meeting of Law Proposal 212 on Wednesday (April 15, 2020), if the talks were not completed; The Law Proposal 212 is recommended to be seen as the main law under Article 91, and its sections in the accompanying form. All those in favor of the group proposal... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration; I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to the Civil Charter 37, I would like to inform you that my main Law Proposal (2/2015) should be taken into consideration. Yours truly. Mr. Ayhan Barut will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Gunpowder.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0156par0664	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our fellow citizens who are watching us on the screen, I salute you with love and respect. First, I wish God's mercy to our citizens who lost their lives because of the virus epidemic that threatens all mankind, patience and condolences to their relatives, and immediate healing for those who are ill. We are here today to discuss our legal proposal for amendments in the 5510 Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act, which we have given so that our housewives with no social security can earn pension. As I've just mentioned, humanity has been facing the scourge of the virus. As all experts, rulers say, there are many ways to get rid of the virus, one way is to stay home. But stay at home. It's not enough to say, keep this call at home. It has to be converted into a house. Keeping family members at home will result in the sacrifices, efforts, and unification of our women. The burden and responsibility of our women who have already dealt with home problems has already increased more than ever before. We must give away the rights of our old, poor women, before domestic affairs are perceived as our women's obligation. If we can get it under the Veterans' roof today, we'll be taking a very important step forward for tomorrow's country. Mr. President, there are over 11 million housewifees in our country as of March 2019, according to TİK data. However, there is no law or regulation for our women who have created life, including Law 5510, that puts them in insurance status. There's an optional form of insurance, which can't be answered by its structure. However, a special law is granted for women abroad who want to benefit from retirement status in our country. The right given to our citizens living abroad is not given to women and housewives in our country. This is contrary to the basic principle of equality in our Constitution. The 60th article of our Constitution is very clear: Everyone has the right to social security. The government takes the necessary measures to ensure this security and establishes the organization. Thus, the state can't save money that will increase the difference between people -- and it's not fair and it's not equal. Mr. President, it's a privilege to be a woman, to be a woman, to be a woman, to resist all inequality and negativity. This truth must never be ignored. The meaning of our lives, the stake of our home, the cornerstone of our social life, is what we can do for our women. As our founder, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, said: O mighty Turkish woman! You are not worthy to be dragged on the ground, but to ascend to the heavens on the shoulders. We owe much to all of them in the salvation of this land, from Nene Hatun to Kara Fatma, from Makbule the Gördese to Tayyar Rahmiah of Adana. Despite all the desperations, the development of this country can't be denied the work of our women in the survival of our families. Let us not forget that strengthening the woman who performs the most difficult duties and responsibilities in our social order is essential. Their rights must be handed over by the most basic human norms, such as their removal from disadvantaged situations, labor, equality. Therefore, we ask for support in the proposal of the law that we offer for our housewives citizens to receive a pension. Dear lawmakers, I've been thinking about not talking about agriculture here today, but I'm an agricultural man. Dear friends, as an agricultural engineer, in the last two or three days, about agriculture and livestock last week, when Corona's virus was widespread, almost reached the point of life, it was brought down to Alexander's Harbor by importing food from 10,000 major Brazilian animals from the weekend. Without quarantine, without consideration of these domestic manufacturers, and on Sunday, on a curfew, this import took place at Alexander's Harbor.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0157par0674	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0156par0675	I wonder how they're going to handle this grave event. Again, just today the local manufacturers were struck by another blow, which came from the port of Mersin. In these days, when the onion harvest began in our country, the potato harvest will soon begin -- this is the news of the port of Mersin -- it has been determined that tons of onions are being brought down to the port of Mersin today, and tons of onions are being brought in from Egypt, despite the onions and potatoes that need exports. It's a sin, it's a shame, it's the sweat and sweat of our manufacturers. And [mention, O Muhammad], when we were in the land, [saying], "Let us eat of your people and your inhabitants." (CHEERING) It's a shame, it's a sin, let's think about the efforts of our manufacturers. My compliments to all of you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit01spe0158par0679	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0158par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 85th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Your Grace, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0159par0006	Mr. President, Burdur Yeşilova Salda Lake is our heart, one of our most precious assets. Regarding Lake Salda, our Ministry launched an investigation into images that we would never accept on social media. The shared negative images certainly do not reflect our axised project to protect Lake Salda. Our project is to deliver Salda to future generations in white beaches, turquoise colors. In the first place, in Salda, we stopped unplanned, twisted construction, unconscious use of the lake. We removed the car entrance to the lake, the footage of the camp and the trailer, the dumpsters. Working with our scientists, our project is being dismantled within half a mile of the lake, using wood materials in harmony with nature.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0160par0007	Don't build on the raft. Salda is naturally beautiful.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0159par0008	We don't allow any structure outside of these structures.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0160par0009	Salda, naturally beautiful.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0159par0010	One gram of cement, one gram of asphalt won't spill, not a nail will crash, and we'll set up a camera system that operates here 24/7, and we'll present it to our citizens.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0160par0011	Salda, she's beautiful on her own.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0159par0012	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0160par0013	It's been there for millions of years.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0161par0014	Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0162par0016	Thank you, Mr. President. For our country and our nation's independence, peace and safety, we are eternally grateful to all our martyrs who willingly gave their lives to the highest post-prophem position in our religion. Today, in the same country, if we can live as brothers in the same geography, it's because of the glorious struggles of our unburdened martyrs and veterans that lie in the ground we walk in. We can only repay our debt to our beloved martyrs, who, without hesitation, lay down their lives for the country and the flag, by leaving a great and powerful Turkey for future generations. We will work with all our strength to carry the sacred relic of our martyrs to higher ground with the same consciousness and faith every day. With these thoughts, I celebrate the April 14th Week of Martyrs, honoring and honoring the General Assembly, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his fellow soldiers, our sainted martyrs and veterans who have forever.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0163par0020	Mr. Arkad... no. Dear Rose...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0164par0023	Let the health care of the health workers be protected. Cleaning workers, nurses, secretaries, lab technicians, mess hall staff, who are part of the health sector, cannot take advantage of special precautions because they do not appear in healthcare, and when they go home, food, dishes, laundry and other household care, children and elderly care. Let the protective equipment be provided for friends at once, let the common test be done, let the state take responsibility for the care of the children of health workers, and let the housing problems be resolved quickly, and let the people of the KHK and the health workers waiting to be appointed begin their duties. We women are strong together in the corona, we are each other's guarantees.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0165par0026	Mr. Imir...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0166par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. The execution order that will get women to leave the prison early has passed through the House, and no one is talking about how to supervise the perpetrators of violence who have been released, especially how to ensure the safety of women during the epidemic. 6284. Instead of being suspended, the Law must be applied more effectively during this period of increased male violence, easier and more audited rather than difficult to obtain restraining decisions. Women should be able to access preventive and protective mechanisms as predicted by the Istanbul Convention. We women are strong together in the corona, we are each other's guarantees. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0167par0031	Mr. Coachyugit...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0168par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. Homework is everyone's job, not only do we women live in houses, but on quarantine days, from cleaning the house to eating, from taking care of children who don't go to school, all work is on our shoulders. The unseen work of women inside the house is growing exponentially. Men who stay home because they don't go to work tend to feel welcome in those houses. Anyone who has no obstacle must take on all the jobs that are mandatory, such as cleaning, care, equally. Administs who say that men and women are not equal at every turn are responsible for deepening this inequality. It's possible to change that a view of equality prior to the fact that it's being widely distributed in all parts of society through any means of communication. We women are together, strong and safe in the day of the corona.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0167par0035	Mr. Stonedemir...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0169par0037	Thank you, Mayor. We women who can't stay home because they have to, who can't stay at home, who can't stay at home, who can't stay at home, who can't stay at home, who can't leave their homes, who have no legal status, who can't pay their rent, who can't pay their rent, who can't afford to live in the house, who can't afford to breathe in the crowd, who can't stay at home, we're strong, we're safe. We deserve to avoid violence in houses where we are expected to avoid outbreaks, stay at home with paid leave and security, avoid the full workload of the house, take into account measures and higher demands in the process, and more than ever. We're calling to stay home to live, to stay at home, to not die of poverty and male violence. We women are strong together in the corona, we are each other's guarantees.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0170par0040	Mr. Acar Basian...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0171par0042	What are the authorities doing when the male violence is increasing? We see various examples, applications, in different parts of the world. We're wondering, what is the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services doing when male violence has increased by 38 percent compared to last year's month? The Hello 183 line needs to be converted into an emergency line of violence or an emergency line of violence against the woman. 155 will have to receive the calls and intervene on time. Because women don't get a second chance to call. In shelters, a transparent process must be conducted on how both women and working medics are guaranteed to be tested. More shelters with low capacity should be provided where crowds don't stay together. Instead, it is unacceptable that the trustee appointed to Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality is even being blocked by the initiatives and current mechanisms of local governments, such as the example of stopping asylum applications or blocking municipal accounts. Emergency coordination, including municipalities...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0170par0044	In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss the issues of control, and we move to the part of the agenda of the law proposals and other tasks from the Commissions. We will begin talks with Ardahan MP Orhan Atalay and 73 MPs in the Higher Education Act and with the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws and the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 212 rows. Members of parliament, this proposal will be considered as the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the proposal will be discussed in sections after all negotiations have been completed and passed on to the articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. İstanbul MP Umit Özdağ is on behalf of the PARTI Group who wants to make a statement on the entire proposal. Here you are, Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0172par0055	Mr. President, we're looking at a proposal from a small group of lawmakers, with no large debates at universities, no opinions from the faculty. We thought the Corona outbreak would help the AK PARTY understand the importance of science, and we were wrong. While Turkey is facing such a dangerous epidemic, how do we contain the most needed scientists, universities, academic freedom and scientific work, and you're still after it. Universitys are places where the future of the country will be built, not where political power will be investigated; they raise students, make benefits for people who graduate, who study, and produce science and technology. Dear lawmakers today, all of our universities, except for exceptions, have failed in their studies on geography, country and science, and to raise students who have been handed over to them. The most concrete example of this is the place of universities in the world's rankings in scientific academic standards. Turkey's top universities are even struggling to make it to the top 500 in the world's ranking. As a congressman who has served as a university professor for many years, I'd like to present you with a few photographs of the current situation. Let's start with the presidents, the autonomous structures of universities, although they couldn't fully elect their rectors, at least in the past, they could do a theme roll call. The first six selected candidates went to the YKK, and the NGO ranked one of the three who were sent by the President. We could react to wrongful assignments. For example, when I was at Gazi University, when Ahmet Necdet Sezer made an unjust appointment, he resigned from the university and I told him that I would not work as a professor at the university as long as he was President of Sezer. And I kept that promise, and I didn't go back to college until Sezer quit. But you couldn't even stand it. Now, completely out of academic tradition, professors from different universities are applying with application files to be president of universities they have no connection with, and the President chooses whom he wants. So, does he really choose the President based on scientific competence? Let's see: 68 of the 196 rectors do not have a single international broadcast, and 71 have not made a single reference to scientific publications. Dear lawmakers, the palace is so determined to appoint a co-chair, that in order to appoint a person who is wanted, the presidential decree changes the terms of the appointment of the president, the person who was a professor a month ago is appointed, and then, again, a new presidential decree is restored. What kind of freedom is that in a university that's so partisan? No and no. During the referendum, an AK PARTY MP was invited to a university, giving a lecture. A university student came to the chancellor and gave a lecture here. We would like to invite Umit Özdağ. Would you please invite him? The president responds to the student: "When Umit Özdağ becomes a patriot, we invite him. " Is that the understanding of science? This is neutral college? In short, in universities, unfortunately -- as in the name of film -- the Silence of the Lambs prevails. Dear lawmakers, the university senates, a council of consultations, are no longer a parliament, are entirely subject to the chancellor's nature. With the vast powers of the presidents, it's clear that they can run universities illegally. Again, with these broad powers, it has been opened for the rectors to make appointments that are not based on merit to the largest of the smallest unit. When a professor becomes a chancellor, for some reason, he tends to view himself as more knowledgeable and superior than any other academic. It was like this before, and now it's stronger. Dear lawmakers, the palace is now interfering with academic titles. The assistant professorship has been removed, and the professorship exams have been completely emptied. The application for a professorship with a file assessment alone... is subject to oral examinations in front of a five-person jury appointed by the Inter-university Committee, as in the former system, depending on the university where the staff is appointed after receiving a person's title. So, as a result of the evaluation of the five-member jury's case, the NGO is making the professors question the rights and powers of the person they have given all their rights and powers to. Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid the academics are not in good economic condition either. During the government of Davutoglu, an academic incentive was introduced to improve academic salaries, but it did not provide a serious improvement, not because it was based on quality, but because it was based on quantity. Honourable lawmakers are opening high school-level universities as a result of increasing the number of universities without developing an established employee or infrastructure. We face the opening of universities and departments regardless of the country's needs and the emergence of young people as educated unemployed. The admission of underprivileged foreign students into universities under the guise of inter-nationalisation, paves the way for students to work illegal labor in cities or other cities with student identity visas. There is another aspect to be remembered in this framework: Turkish students who have been tested under great tension by raising their teeth from Turkish parents' teeth and preparing them for exams are on one side; certain universities have been assigned to Syrian asylum seekers, and they can study for a master's degree, a master's degree and a doctorate at these universities. In fact, this is not acceptable; this is a total injustice. Dear MPs, I'm afraid this is the view of the current situation from different angles. Now, the AK PARTY has brought up a new offer without allowing discussion at universities. The 28-point proposal contradicts even the remaining figures, academics, scientific purposes and principles of universities. We shouldn't be afraid of freedom of opinion in colleges. Colleges are not elementary school, middle school or high school. The rise of Turkey, a strong and rich country, is closely related to how successful our universities are. The bond between the world's best universities and the world's most advanced states clearly reveals the situation. Drowning freedom of opinion in universities will condemn Turkey to poverty and recession. Dear lawmakers, what we need to talk about here today is the corona problem in the world, financing research projects that our universities need to increase. In our universities today, agriculture and animalism and the research institute of national resources, the institute of global warming and Turkish research, the institute of artificial intelligence research. However, we have to talk about how academics will be punished here today, but it's not surprising, so it's not right to expect a democratic, liberal college proposal from the EC PARTY. Last night, Mr. Erdogan, president of the EC PARTI, made a speech, saying: "All of them are signs of a more dangerous disease than a virus, constantly throwing up grudges with lies or false information. Every day, the product of their dark and dirty mentality will not allow this kind of delusion to cloud our nation's mind with literature, not even one day in other countries. In Turkey, there is a problem with the abuse of democracy, ideological bigotry, blinding the eyes, and the wide openness of the curse sounds. You were behind every blow, every custody. The work you've been doing over the years is not called journalism, it's about the government. But this era is over. Our country will not only survive the coronavirus, but also these media and political viruses. Now, is this a democratic approach? Is this the hugging attitude that the President should represent as Turkey passes through one of the times when it needs the national unity the most? Well, that's how antidemocratic your bill is when it comes to attitude. After Corona, authoritarian regimes are envisioned to gain a more oppressive quality, and perhaps the president of the EC PARTI sees opposition and non-compulsive media as the virus that should be destroyed. How do you destroy it? Can such a statement be used even in a country allegedly ruled by democracy? Erdogan's tendency to be authoritarian, which is supposed to start around the world, is that no one will criticize me anyway, saying, "It seems to be in Turkey's interest to bring it into effect." Authority is not the right path for the world or Turkey. Moreover, the success of the authoritarian China (China), the democratic United States, Britain, France, and Italy, even the failure of the United States of America... Remember, authoritarian Iran has failed, while democratic Japan, Germany, South Korea have been very successful. You shouldn't rely so much on the idea of a rise in authority. But what are you doing right? You have to use the existing terminal building at Ataturk Airport, but you have to tear down the airport's runways and build a building. You see the world is becoming authoritarian, but don't you see the world is going to get mixed up? Large cities, such as Istanbul, are viewed as major risk centers by institutions specializing in security. There'll be global warming, migration and crime explosions? I'm recording it here, and you'll see that we'll need the runways that you destroyed at the Ataturk Airport in Istanbul. Dear lawmakers, we're talking about professors whose Constitutional Court has noted that they are a special and valuable class of professions. Turkey's Grand National Assembly should not fall behind this definition of the Constitutional Court as it considers the university. The court, underlining the importance of academic freedom, says it must have the freedom to spread information and truth without any limitation, with the freedom to freely express itself about the institution and the system in which it works. Turkey's Grand National Assembly should not bring limits to the academic's freedom of opinion. We need to keep in mind the fact that there will be other ideas in front of those ideas, even though the ideas that arise may bother us. Dear lawmakers, as with every social institution, there must be discipline at the university, of course. In Article 7 of the proposal, disciplinary regulations have been made. The regulation of the disciplinary fines of the teaching staff is antidemocratic, restrictive, scientific autonomy and freedom. In addition to Law No. 657, disciplinary provisions for employees in universities are also held in Article 53 of Law 2547. In the field of higher education, the regulation on this subject has been revoked. The Constitutional Court has annulled the provisions of Article 53 of Law 2547, which regulates disciplinary provisions imposed by faculty and officers, nine months later. Current regulations in Article 53 of Law 2547 have been changed with the proposed proposal. However, the phrases in the proposal's general moral and immoral behavior and behavior are in particular incompatible with universities and academic staff. Dear lawmakers, punishments must be too open to permit arbitrary practices. The offer, however, paves the way for arbitrary applications. As part of the warning penalty for the teaching staff, there is an expression not to pay attention to the training of the staff. You can find a phrase like that in the gardener's code, but in college, there's no parenting, no employees, no upbringing. As part of the punishment, it is referred to as disrespecting his superior during his duty. Guys, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey shouldn't be dealing with this kind of thing. What happens if a teacher who's not qualified in an intellectual debate at the university, tomorrow's assistant, based on that, disciplines and punishments? As part of the reprimand, the statement was used to report against the truth. The question is, what is the truth? The president will determine the truth, and the others will obey? Let's say a group of professors wrote a report on the negative effects of Syrian asylum seekers. This isn't real for you, it's not real for the chancellor in the chain of command, even if it is. You're going to punish me for not telling the truth? Of course, information theft must be punished most severely. Under this clause of the proposal, the dismissal penalty is not recommended in accordance with scientific rules. We have no objection, but how will this clause be applied correctly? Because the international and national criteria for reference rules are different. You can't apply this material without these definitions. For example, one professor gets five pages from another source, not in quotes, but a little footnote at the end of page 5 is not stealing ideas; another academic may get two sentences, but forgets to footnote them, that's stealing ideas. That's not for us to decide. The university should arrange it. The proposal used a total of 20 days in a year, without an apology, without interruption, without interruption, or without an apology or permission. Now, here's the classic bureaucratic logic. The university is not a classic government office. It's the academic's business brain. As long as he doesn't send his brain on vacation, he's on duty, so we have to accept it. Let's not treat our colleges like high school. The academic achievements of teaching members are based not on their presence in their rooms, but on academic evaluation reports given at universities in six months. So let's remove this clause from the proposal. Another arrangement stipulated the punishment for condemning him for his crime, explaining documents he had learned according to his duties and should remain confidential. This can only be for the rector, vice chancellor and deans who are in contact with different state institutions, where the boundaries must be defined very clearly. You are also saying that, unfortunately, when we are talking about funds for universities to be provided to research institutes, we are talking about punishments. Right, I mean, it's not really ethical, but it's not about college, it's about judgment. Supporters, corporations or organisations complain to independent judicial bodies, and the punishment arises. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's a positive clause in the proposal. A positive change in the appointment of research staffs known as 50/D/D) in Article 16 is that they remain in the staff for six months after their thesis master's training is completed. But six months in the academic calendar is too short, so we recommend that it be raised to twelve months. In many departments and six months in the field, Ph.D. doesn't open, and children fall out of college. It's easy to get this up to 12 months in support of the entire House. Dear lawmakers have politicized the AK PARTY universities. From the appointment of presidents to the recruitment of officers, all academic processes have been cleared of merit. If we want to sum up this time: the relationship between the EC PARTI-university in Turkey -- academic integrity in Turkey has been sacrificed to political loyalty, which is proof of that. We see that this chronicized disease also covers the text of the law proposal, and as the GOOD PARTY, we disapprove of this approach, and we fall ill. I salute our High Council.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0173par0083	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0174par0086	Congressmans, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to discuss the Law of Higher Education, 212, and the Proposal to Change Some Laws. I salute you precious MPs and the bureaucrats who are here today representing the relevant institutions. Members of parliament, we are going through a period of distress, where the late Peace Mancho has composed Turkish music and brought its words to Turkish music, and is a breath of health in the state jihad which belongs to Sultan Süleyman. As the proverb states, health and health and health are our main agenda. We bear witness that the outbreak of Covid-19 has caused great losses in our country, as has happened in many parts of the world. In the war against this deadly epidemic, we thank all those who are trying to produce services for our nation, especially health workers. We hereby ask for mercy and immediate healing for those who are under treatment for all our citizens who have lost in this struggle, in the person of our beloved scientist, Dr. Cemil Taşcioglu Hodja. And I want to thank all of you worthy legislators who work with the same desire and self-determination. Congressmans, education is essential to any social, cultural, scientific, moral and professional gains and activities that remind us that we are the proudest of all who have been created in every period of our lives from birth to death. We can't deny that the training that allows us to know ourselves and know ourselves and to prepare ourselves for the grave as a free individual of knowledge, wisdom and conscience, in private finds the presence of a teacher-parent triangle when it comes to its shareholders, but it actually encompasses the entire community. After all, when it comes to education, we need to keep our sensitivity to the highest level. Members of parliament, due to the fact that we still have a young population structure, we have about 67,000 institutions in pre-school, first and secondary schools, an 18 million student population and over 1 million teachers, as well as over 200 higher education institutions and a population of over 7.5 million students and about 175 thousand professors in higher education institutions. In action from the universal fact that knowledge and science belong to all mankind, education is constantly changing and transforming in light of the principle that we should act by strengthening the values that make us who we are. In addition to continuing these changes and transformation practices, it is inevitable to continue the process with new regulations if there are any shortcomings and setbacks that will arise from these applications. Honourable lawmakers, for this purpose, have been brought up by the Higher Education Law and the Law Proposal to Change Some Laws. When we look at the arrangements that are on the agenda and are intended to contribute public benefit and educational quality in higher education, in particular, to the parallel development of numerical growth, we bear witness that they are clustered in several topics. One is that the number of professorship applications subject to a two-time limitation year-on-year is increased, as well as the configuration of information via e-government to speed up communication with subjects such as professorship applications, jury formation and decisions. Another law states that the conditions for the application of a professor who refers to uncertainty are embodyed, and the age limit of their application to researchers is met. Because when we really look at it, I think that as a rational, idealistic academic, researchers are idealized lieutenants of the scientific army. Another law stipulates that the records of those who have failed to renew and cannot pay a contribution for two years or four consecutive periods in order to avoid misunderstanding due to the passive student situation in open school. And what's being intended here is that he's a student on paper, but he's not in practice, which, of course, leads to a huge waste, a huge illusion. Again, in another article, universities are also expected to contribute to national or international projects at a certain rate. Because, really, when we look at the first-degree mission of universities, it's a very essential, inevitable responsibility to study research, projects. Again, in another article, innovations are added, such as a fee arrangement for employees at the foundation universities and improving their autonomy rights, as well as a scholarship student quota increase and collateral cuts. Now, in this context, of course, in light of the information that has been delivered to us, as it has been delivered to representatives of all legislatures, we've always seen that, you know, at one time in the founding stage, maybe in favor of the foundation universities, against the public universities, but considering some of the problems that we've actually been through these days, there's a situation that's actually increasing, however, against the employees of the foundation universities, but in favour of the public universities. In this context, it was not entirely acceptable for a teacher to be subjected to inequality, to the same work, to the same course, to the foundation of one of the two decent universities, one of which is subject to state-to-state different practices, or to pay for. Of course, the other thing is that scholarship student quotas are increased. We have a really young people, and our very talented children are growing up, thank God. There's a great deal going on here, especially to the prestigious colleges of the foundation, in order to prevent them from going to better universities without brain draining them. It is intended that the number of students with the highest scores will be reduced to 15 per cent. Hopefully, in the later years, that rate could be even higher, as a friend of ours suggested. In another law, a co-ordinator was intended to establish a joint practice and research centre with the cooperation of several higher education institutions in order to accelerate waste prevention, research and experimental work. Believe me, it's one of the problems we face the most in our academic lives. As a friend of yours, I would like to point out that there was a statement in our report that a delegation of the European Association of Colleges had come to us for observation, research, study -- I can never forget it -- he said, "I can't forget this, including Oxford, Cambridge, that such institutions, including the prestigious universities of the United States, work for more than three or five hours or so similar experimental studies in any university, and we haven't seen anything more than a lab or a technical facility. I mean, I don't want to make it concrete, it might be a little touchy for some majors, but a lab should work 24 hours. So, this is, in order to get rid of it, in fact, a laboratory in the same context as any university, not a research center, but a coordinator, a strong university president, a research center that is designed to be used in partnership with a number of universities -- research centers, labs. Honourable lawmakers, again, this is another issue, which is that your second teaching knowledge is very much in our language, and perhaps it was actually useful in the institutional stage until now, it was necessary, we saw its benefits, but after a certain period of time, we also witnessed that it caused difficulties. Now, here, of course, I'd like to make a statement, especially to the very respectable ready from the SEC. Now, we have an offer like this, where grad school fees are determined by the board of directors of the relevant university or high-tech institute. Now, yes, it sounds good, but considering what we've been going through in academia, we've witnessed that it's caused some problems. Let me give you a couple of concrete examples of what happened: these days, when we're still talking about colleges, and we're talking about two very important problems, two chronicizing problems, in light of the messages you've been given. Yeah, let's give it to the colleges, it's great, it sounds good on paper, but you don't have to disable the human factor. Now, we're going to set an upper limit on grad school, which is very beautiful, the law is restrictive, restrictive, but in the interest of not leaving doors open to the enforcers, or very open good intentions for abuse. What do I mean by that? In terms of quotas, see, considering the faculty capacity of that particular discipline, or the faculty of the department, I think it's also useful to bring a limitation to the quota, or it needs to be very well controlled. Why do I say it? Because my mouth is sore, really. So I'm giving you two examples, in concrete terms, in terms of expressing the problems that are getting gangrene -- as you've been told -- because we've lived in this way -- we've been given the authority to open certificate programs to universities at one time, and believe me, in every subject, certificate programmes have been made about every branch of the profession, and they've been charged high. What was the point? It was supposedly intended to raise or develop an expert on that subject, but unfortunately, we had to compromise the merits of such a quantitative quantity. I'll tell you something more concrete: although some of the major universities have actually given two thoughts about pedagogic formation programmes, as a result of the fact that this authority was once released to universities, believe me, the faculty has somehow exceeded these programs at high prices, and today we have 700,000 young people living in the dream of teaching. We witnessed that this was caused by these misunderstandings and practices. None of our young have any sin because we have allowed them to live those dreams in the open, through the powers vested in them, and today it is our duty to lighten it, to reduce our burden. Now, for the sake of not going through a similar ordeal, I say, yes, it is a demand, the right to education is a very important right, but not to be abused. What is it? Here, second grad school needs to be disciplined in some way. If these are kept open, we can meet with some professional demands of graduate graduates -- correct, justifiably -- the day after tomorrow -- 700,000 -- in numbers. Of course, we can replicate these samples. Remember, for God's sake, now, maybe there's a new construction going on, and I'm congratulating you in this context. Really good things are being done, especially for my higher education. In fact, some measures are being taken at the point of fixing mistakes made in the past. Indeed, I know a debt of gratitude to the authorities in front of you. But we say in the name of exemplars -- we say in the name of blowing out yogurt: by multiplying a number of professions, majors, by increasing universities; by opening universities similar to each other; by opening departments; by opening schools; yes, we have increased the quantity of certain trade groups, but we have compromised the quality. So, today, we've made a lot of unemployed and those professional groups inferior. So, all three of these examples I've given are both in the context of pedagogic formation, and there are some economic difficulties that are present at the point of our government at the point of our government, at the point where a number of trade groups are multiplying and opening up every department to every university, every faculty, every other department. As the National Movement Party, we really feel the obligation to say this as members of a movement that says "my country and my nation first." And also as an idealist academic. Because at the point of public spending, especially when we're having a fever-induced health crisis, God forbid we should use it at the point of resolving a number of previous chronic deficits, not in the treatment of our new, simple mistakes. Respectable lawmakers, finally, have come to a lot of attention in the Commission phase; yes, it sounds good, of course, academic freedom, academic independence, unlimited rights; indeed, but in practice, we have seen that sometimes this is somehow deformed and abused. Now, there's an arrangement for a little refining of the disciplinary regulations of our universities' academic and administrative staffs with a changing clause. We as the Nationalist Movement Party, especially in order to ensure that the peace that our universities are now in, in fact, in the past, the universities, the academic staff, the rooms of the academic staff, the absence of a number of illegal structures, the praise of terrorism in any way, the propaganda, the bias, the contribution to action, things defined by the law, not so vague concepts. The definition of terrorism is also in the Constitution, it is in the relevant articles, and these are clearly, clearly, in the disciplinary boards of universities. So there's no point in pulling it out. The word "propaganda" is propaganda everywhere; it includes praising, speaking in favor of it, killing. Now the deaf sultan understands that it is propaganda to speak in favor of something illegal, especially a terrorist structure that poses a threat to the country. On these concepts, we, the National Movement Party, express our particular sensitivity. We insist that the same sensitivity be maintained here at the point of this guaranteeed peace. I'm finishing with a concrete example: you know, we had potholes in Cizre, Kulp., Diyarbakir; in those digs, in the tunnels that passed from house to house, our citizens who lived there were imprisoned, taken captive, and there was now a formal domestic uprising, as if a state in the state, was reflected in the street, and in exchange for the heavy costs of that, our government decided to fight as well. Now, in a way, sir, I've decided to settle this struggle and slander...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0175par0104	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0174par0105	...as a genocide, as a massacre, as a torture, as a persecution, it has nothing to do with academicism to express a truly unsubstantiated concept. As an academic, I'm saying that if we're academics who think freely and independently of this country... we've discussed a law on criminal reasoning for a week, we've submitted about 210 motions. Statistically speaking, do you remember a motion for five brothers who were murdered in our district of Diyarbakır Kulp, as much as the name Osman Kavala was mentioned in 8/4/2020? Or did you witness that a sentence was established by those who were called peace academics, who were more liberal than us, more human rights advocates?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0175par0107	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0174par0108	We didn't. So, really, I'm saying that, in general, our peace within the country, and in private, our peace of mind at universities is our red line. I hereby declare that we will support this offer as the National Movement Party. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0176par0112	Yes, Mr. President. Mr. President, thank you. I want to thank Mr. Aydın for his speech. He mentioned something important, and I'd like to give a brief statement to the General Assembly: You know, there was an almost unlimited situation at the foundation institutes of higher education, higher education, and PhDs, which had previously been disproportionate. Now, this situation is now limited, and these rates are determined according to the number of students present. Thus, for a teacher who had previously been unlimited counseling rates have been limited to 15 ▪ in a doctorate, and for a master's degree, it has been limited to 30. Therefore, I would like to submit to the General Assembly's information that such restrictions have been imposed. It's more like the issues you're referring to, you know, that aren't in public universities. There was no limit here, especially since there was a fee in the foundations, but with the latest applications, the NGO has limited it. And I offer this to the compliments of the General Assembly. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Now on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Batman MP Mehmet Rüç Tiryaki. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Tiryaki.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0177par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm going to try to share with you the views of our party, our party group on the entire Law Proposal on the Law of Higher Education, 212 rows, and on the whole of the Law Proposal to Change Some Laws. I salute you all. And at the beginning of my words, I wish God's mercy on those who have so far lost because of the coronavirus, and his condolences on their relatives, and good health to those who are in intensive care and in hospital. Hopefully, they'll get better as soon as they get back to their loved ones. Yes, higher education has very important problems, and these problems need to be resolved, but it's clear that the 30-point law proposal for executive and implementation, which we started to discuss today, will not solve the problems of higher education. I think it's the law that will solve the problems of higher education, not the claims of lawmakers who have an offer. So, why do we see this bill at a time when curfews, travel constraints have increased so much in the days of this coronavirus epidemic? Because of a Constitutional Court ruling. The Constitutional Court made a decision on April 10, 2019; 2017/33 is the main decision, 2019/20. In addition to the verbs found in Articles (1), (2), (3), (4) and (6) of Article 5657 of Article 53/C (e) replaced by Articles 26 and 3047 of Articles of the Code of Law. However, nine months after this decision was issued in the Official Gazette, the Constitutional Court said it would be carried out. Now that this is over in the days to come, we're discussing this proposal of the law. There's nothing wrong so far. The bidders added a few more clauses to the proposal they made under the Constitutional Court's decision, which is fine, but the question is that the offer is not only in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, but it is contrary to the principle of autonomy of the university. I'll try to explain why in a minute. I'd like to make a general assessment first. I've told you over and over again, there is no university in the good universities of the world named Turkey. Between the first 300 universities or the first 500 universities, we had a few good universities, and by exporting their professors, changing the method of appointing the rectors, and linking them to the one man, unfortunately, you've made the academic community very bad. Now, between the first 500 universities, between the first 300 universities, there is no university from Turkey. We say, the head of the YRK tells us that we can actually do it if we want to. So, we transfer professors from Europe, from the United States, and all the academic studies that they've done so far have suddenly increased the academic rating of the university, and we can get a lot of universities from Turkey into the first 500, the first 300 universities, but we don't do that, he says. What's he saying? As a resident, we are trying to solve this problem. But does that answer change the fact that any university in Turkey, several universities, are not among the good universities of the world? It doesn't. The head of the SEC tells us the trick, whichever trick we do, our universities may be among the first 300 to 500 universities. Therefore, this defense itself is not true. Yes, it's good to have universities that are qualified and will be among the good colleges of the long term. And we support every step of the way as a party. Now, I have a few very important questions at the academy: one of them is, look, especially in social sciences, academics can't investigate what they want. Some topics are always censored by the teachers, such as research, and do not get us into trouble. Now, even having a dialogue like this means something very, very dark for the future of this country. If any academic, any research officer, assistant professor, professor, or anyone else at the academy can't prepare a thesis on what they want, if they can't do research, we can really say that the universities of that country are doomed to be barren. Another thing, look, the rectors are no longer elected. In the past, the election of a university chancellor in Turkey was not so democratic or anything like that; universities were making elections, sending a number of candidates from a certain number of candidates to the SEC, sending three of them to the President, and the president was throwing one of them out, and there was often no democratic system. Now, let's say you're doing this review, you're saying there's no democratic system here. What does a government supposed to do? He needs to purge the antidemocratic ones, get them out, and make a democratic arrangement. So, what did we do? We said, "Is he going to deal with this?" We changed it, and now the president of the university is throwing the president directly without any elections. The problem doesn't end here. Look, he's throwing out whoever he wants. Of those who carry certain conditions, academics, professors are appointed, and we've changed that, we've removed this clause from the law, or rather, you've removed it -- we're not partners in this sin -- you've given that authority to the President. At the moment, with a presidential decree, the law stands again. He can appoint any of the three-year professors as president. Can he? He can't even stand it, Mr. President. I will make whomever I wish as chancellor. One evening he publishes a decree, and the next day there are no three-year terms; two years and a year of professors can be appointed as chancellor. I'll tell you what's more dramatic: professors who haven't completed three months have been appointed chancellors in this country. The president publishes a decree, removes three years, makes the person he wants; the next day he publishes a decree, comes back three years. Then, after a while, there's a new university set up, he wants to appoint someone as president, and again he's blocking a three-year condition; he's drafting a decree, he's removing it, he's making a three-month professor. The next day, the need became necessary, and again, he publishes a decree, and again, three years of professors can become presidents. This is unacceptable. I mean, isn't there one professor in Turkey that the President can appoint, that you're appointing a chancellor among three months of professors? Now you're running Turkey by decrees. One of those decrees is by the Code of Law 703. With that decree, you gave the President a chance to appoint anyone he wanted as chancellor. The reason why we're discussing this law today is because you've changed the laws of 703, the ordinances of the law, and the Constitutional Court has called it off, and that's why we're meeting now. Now, let me tell you something about this, and I think there's an important criticism about this, and now we're saying that it's like you're not running the government, but you're running the family business, and we're doing reviews and stuff like that. Let me be very clear, this is not the way the company is actually run; no company manager can put a CEO in charge of the company like that, I assure you, he's looking out for the interests of the company. You know, when we say you don't run a state, you run a family business, you don't really follow the rules that you have to follow when you run a family company. Look, studying college in Turkey is no longer a luxury, not a right. Only one of the seven university students can live in a dorm, only one of the seven university students. The Ministry of Youth and Credit Homes responds to such criticisms, saying: "Ya, we put almost everyone who applied to the dorms. The problem is here. In a country where one of the seven students can be placed in the dorm, the majority of the students begin to search for homes as soon as they register at the university, because they know their chances are 15 percent. Another thing that says that the Minister of Youth or the Centre for Loans says: Think of the student dorms before us, think of the dorms now. Now it's a five-star hotel setting, and there's a few people staying, rooms are luxury, each room has a separate toilet or something. Now, we're talking 18 years, 19 years. When the Justice and Development Party came to power, my son was 1.5 years old, and now he's a college student, so we're talking about that long. What you're comparing is twenty-five years ago, twenty-five years ago. Can't we compare twenty-five years ago to today? Of course we can compare. So, does that help us get to the truth, compare it to what happened 20 years, 25 years ago? It doesn't show us anything because there's been a few or a few developments in every country in the world over the last 20 or 20 years. The problem is that the countries that are at your level are where they come from, in science, in art, in technology, in communication, in every field, where they come from; you compare them with this, to measure where you come from. If you don't do that and compare it to what was done in your own country 20 years, 25 years ago, we'll all be in a great illusion. Look, I'll just give you one example of communication; there's no need to compare it to Europe, America, Japan, or anything like that, a simple example: whoever can look at it, only about fiber optic nets, compare it to Ghana, an average country in Africa. Look, compare Ghana with Turkey; where did any country in the world, you call access to the Internet, come from, where did Turkey come from? That's the only way we can make the real comparison. So against every criticism, it was like this ten or eight years ago, twenty years ago; we came from here to here. When you say, "Well, you're actually somewhere, but you can't even get near the steps of others. Why am I saying this? If you want to develop technology, science, communication, industry in these areas, one of the key points is the university. If you have free education at your universities, if academics are doing free research at your universities, you can improve in these areas. It's not just about the money, it's not about the money. If it was with money, look, countries like Saudi Arabia, or other countries with a very high income for natural wealth, would have to be very highly developed, and we need something else. Let's not forget, we really need free colleges. But if the university is free, we can develop in science, we can develop in industry, we can develop in technology, we can develop in communication. Now, as I was saying in the beginning, you run this country under the law, as we were saying, now, rule number 703... This is Code 703, dated July 2018, and its title is "Adjudicated by the Law to Change Decisions in Some Laws and Laws in the Purpose of Compatibility to Changes in the Constitution." This is the decree under Code 703, which changes the entire state structure in Turkey. You run everything in Turkey in accordance with the laws of the law, either with the State of Emergency, or with other KHKs. There's no law in Turkey that hasn't been replaced with DGKs, and there's no law in Turkey without the provisions of the KHK. In 2011, you radically changed the state administration in Turkey, in June, within a month you repealed the organization laws of all ministries, and you did so with a decree of a law. I'll give you an example: There used to be a Law on Organizations and Missions of the Ministry of National Education, number 3797. All the ministries in Turkey had a law. What is the organization's structure, who is involved in it, what are their tasks; they were organized in detail, and you wanted to change them. Who deals with the law, who deals with the Great National Assembly of Turkey, whose duty is to make law? The decision under the rule of law is to change the entire state order in Turkey from beginning to end. In June 2011, you began to govern all ministries in accordance with the laws of the entire state of Turkey, replacing these laws with new laws, from 2011 to 2018. You've come from 2011 to 2018. You haven't removed them from the law by decree. You have replaced these decrees with new laws. Back in the day, when I read the Ministry's law enforcement laws, the further laws of the law, everyone knew what it was all about. Look, I'll just tell you one that's from the Ministry of National Education. The Ministry of National Education has no agency law, there's a decree on the law. Now, do you know what his name is? It's an executive decree on Special Housing Services and some regulations. See, that's where the Ministry of National Education's Agency Law comes from. Go to any citizen in Turkey and tell them, "What could the Special Housing Service provide for the Institutions and some regulations of the State of the Law regulate? Not a single person, no legal knowledge, no special knowledge of this, would say that this is the National Ministry of Education's organizational code, the ordinance of the law. Why is that? The system's changed now. No agency, no employment, no Ministry duties. What? There's a presidential system. The president is designing the agency in any way he wants, and he can change that organization in any way he wants. I'd like to talk a little bit about the content of the offer, but I'm running out of time. What's the deal with the bidders that we're talking about? You are making changes to Article 2 to Article 2547 in Article 24 of the Higher Education Law. According to this, the professorship exam will not be held twice a year, but more will be held. It's a positive change, I told the Commission that we would support it, that we would support it. In the third article, you apply for a master's degree when you are appointed as a lecturer. That's a positive change, as long as there's no loss of rights in the current professors, that's the only problem. Article 4 and the age of appointment to the investigative staff are conditional on the condition that you are not over 35 years old. I said it in detail at the commission that wasn't true. Anyone can take care of the academy at any age, want to do research at the university. So, I said this age limit isn't right, but if you're going to make it a year, make it 40, which we say is that a 65-year-old person can retire. From 40 to 65 years old, he can complete 25 years. I think it's right to be 40 if the reasonable measure is a year old. An expert, translator, and educational planners can also teach at universities with Article 5 of the proposal. I told you on the commission that I found that debatable. The bidders say that the change in Law 7100 is now a teaching staff. But I think the best way to improve quality in higher education is to appoint a new academic. You can't change the quality of the university with these professors. The 7th article is a very critical substance, which is exactly what we're talking about. At first, I said, the Constitutional Court made a decision and said: "The president of the Constitutional Court, along with the dean, will be the disciplinary officer of all faculty." The Constitutional Court finds it contrary to the autonomy of the university, the Constitutional Court, contrary to the Articles 1130 and 131, contrary to scientific autonomy," he said. Now, with this offer, you're changing it. Now the head of the SEC will no longer be able to launch a direct disciplinary investigation and become a disciplinary officer. But another thing the Constitutional Court said was: you add verbs that require disciplinary measures that can be applied to the state and foundation higher education institutions, officers and other staff, and verbs in Act 657, which violate both the scientific autonomy of universities and their own laws. There are examples in the Constitutional Court's decision, which are very accurate examples. For example, according to State Officers' Law No. 657, political activity requires the penalty for stopping gradual progress between one year and three years, and membership in the political party requires that it be removed from the state office. However, all of the academics here know that there has been a change in Article 59 of Law 2547, and academics can become members of political parties. He said it might be a problem to run it with Law 657, as well as with Law No. 2547. Now you're changing that, you're removing the clause that refers to 657, but you're still saying a lot of verbs in 657, which are not consistent with the academic identity. My predecessor told me, we discussed it in commissions, it's really debatable. But there is one very important one, which is this: See, the 53rd article of Law 2547, which is now available, states that it requires that you act in terrorist ways or to support these actions be removed from the public office. You're changing this, and you're saying that propaganda for terrorist organizations, being in the union with these organizations, or helping them, or using public resources to support these organisations, is also a punishment for taking public resources out of public office. Now, I'm not saying that the current law is very good because there are problems with the definition of terrorism. Some countries call Hamasa terrorists, El Fetihe calls the Moro National Liberation Organization terrorists, but not everyone in the world sees these organizations as terrorists. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0178par0147	Go ahead, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0177par0148	There's no universal and common definition when it comes to terrorism, which is a huge problem. Also, there are people here, under this roof, who have been expelled from the university on February 28th by the term "gericicicist", who are being held here today for the sake of their thoughts. Just as this victimized you in the past, today's arrangement can only be a victim of other people's thoughts. Now in the past we have been wronged, we are against this injustice. Are you saying that our purpose was to become power? So we're not against injustice, we're against power, we're unfair to what we want. If you say so, there's nothing wrong with that. But if you still have a sense of justice, if you're defending it, it's a very controversial substance. I don't want to make it look like you're going through this, like you're running out of racism, terrorism, and you're going through this, and I don't know how you're doing it, but you can't help but make a rule about it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] End of story, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0178par0151	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0177par0152	And there's a couple of clauses -- and what I'd like to say is that our friends will say when they're ready -- now, we're asking for an additional recommendation to these disciplinary boards, and union representatives should be on disciplinary committees at universities and at the SEC. I think it's forgotten, we have an offer on this, or you can give it to the union representatives that should be able to participate. I believe the 13th article is the Istanbul City University of the Foundation for Science and Art. I think you're making it legal. You made an addition to the Passport Law on the commission, and the professors will receive a green passport if they serve 15 years at the university of the foundation. I think it would be helpful if -- not students -- this was changed to include teachers. That's why teachers get extra tuition these days when they're considered on administrative leave, but you say: "When this is over, I'll give you the job again. If you don't come, I'll take back the money I gave you. This is a huge injustice, because teachers deserve administrative leave, they get extra tuition. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So when you give me a job tomorrow morning, I think you should pay extra tuition. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0179par0159	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Yıldırım Kaya... Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0180par0162	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our fellow citizens watching television, I salute and greet you all on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. We're going through extraordinary times. Many of you live in your homes as if you were in a half-open prison. We've had over a thousand citizens who have lost their lives in the outbreak of the coronavirus that threatens the world, thousands of people in the world have lost their lives, hundreds of thousands of people are being treated. First of all, I'd like to offer my condolences to Professor Haydar Chief and all the people who have lost their lives. And our Ataşehir City Councilman, our 27-year-old bright young friend Uðurcan Demir, died of this virus. I offer him God's mercy, and my condolences to his relatives, and to our entire community. Dear lawmakers, we will remove the NGO and establish democracy in Turkey. The Justice and Development Party came to power. The following is 18 years after an understanding of the party's decision to remove the PLO from the party's programme, where we have come 18 years after the election declarations, making arrangements that can't be recovered from the current state of the PLO. Look, on April 8th, the Commission received this bill, and on April 10th, the Commission discussed it. The commissioners didn't get a chance to make a detailed assessment, not even within themselves. We're going through a process that's not even possible to negotiate with universities, unions, relevant institutions, let alone the members of the Commission, and we've expressed that in the Commission. Our friends and NGO representatives who brought the proposal to law in the commission, particularly from the clause that the Constitution has cancelled, said that this should go on in this process, and we understand that, but we need to consider one way, together: really rational, based on science, the need for democracy -- A party or Party B -- should be accepted by the Commission, or if it is not accepted by the Commission. If we're going to create an idea of unity, we've been enlightened in science, and we're going to talk about the state of the universities that will show us the way, we have to give up the understanding that I said here. We need to discuss it together. We need to go through the process together. A reckoning on September 12th is a reckoning with the laws of September 12th, with the legal sanctions of September 12th. To this day, the Justice and Development Party, which has been ahead of its reckoning on September 12th for 18 years, unfortunately does not plan to settle the score with September 12th. It's really hard not to think about settling the score with September 12th, which is the product of September 657, even the Law of State Officers. Think of it this way, this coronavirus has settled on our lives. Don't we have to conduct a struggle with science? Where do we reveal science? In colleges. Well, if our universities are far from being a science nest, how are we supposed to live with that? We need colleges, scientists, people to investigate. These are only possible, as long as they think freely, as long as the economic conditions are appropriate. If you can't do that, as long as you can't do a scientific study, you'll lose your chance to fight with the coronavirus or other cases, mind, science, and free thought. We're looking at colleges, universities -- I just told you -- the 12th of September law and its law run on everything. There's an understanding hanging over us like the sword of Damocles. Even on September 12th, even after September 12th, he had the right to choose the chancellor from among university professors in the YKK, universities; he chose three people, and the President threw one out of three. Now, you've destroyed it, destroyed it. Look what you've done, you'll be the mayor of the Justice and Development Party, you'll be the mayor of the county, you'll be the MP, or you'll be running for MP, and then you'll be appointed president of the university. We see these applications very often during this period. If we don't disable these applications, we can't talk about democracy, science and democracy. The proposal for the law does not abolish the antidemocratic provisions brought in by the impact of 1982, nor does it change the laws against the Constitution or the principles of scientific autonomy. Isn't there any positive changes in the law that he's changed? There are positive changes. The foundation colleges were founded. He gave students 15 per cent scholarships, full scholarships, as part of his understanding of the dedication of the foundation universities. The proposal of the friends who brought the proposal was 15 per cent, and we, the Republican People's Party, wanted to make it 25 per cent, but the Commission was rejected by members of the National Movement Party and Justice and Development Party, but the 15 per cent scholarship was very accurate and necessary. Since the foundation universities were in a particularly risky situation, during the risk of private schools, the teacher, student, student, student guardian, and student had to have a guarantee that students, faculty, and university administrators would not have to take over; our friends who offered the law made it necessary to deposit 2% of their income into the public bank as collateral. As the Republican People's Party, we wanted that to be 5%, but that offer was rejected. We specifically stated that a process in which 6,000 professors were expelled under the signature of one person, with the rule of law on September 12th and against democracy, was not right, and that the process should be brought to the agenda by the NGO. But unfortunately, we've been through a process where an academic working on the coronavirus has been expelled. Even if I'm not returned to duty, I want to contribute to the work I've done with my academic career, and I want to be supportive. Even when you say, "Get out of here!" If, in the light of science, there are those who can provide us with an approach to the fight against this coronavirus, we must open the door to them. The majority of those who were expelled under the law are peace academics who were expelled because they wanted peace in this country. It means not only war, but peace. Some of our exported friends are now members of Parliament. A friend of ours is sitting in the back, discharged, MP Ibrahim Kaboglu is not here, MP. These are world-renowned professors who teach at universities around the world and are proud of their students. When we put these people in the door, what did Turkey gain, what did humanity gain, and what did we lose? There's so much we've lost, but nothing we've won. So it's really sad that in the process we're discussing, peace academics are not being reinstated despite the Constitutional Court's ruling. Aren't there academics being reinstated? I do. There are those who have been asked to be reinstated by the State of Emergency Commission, but on one condition: you cannot return to universities in Ankara, İstanbul, İzmir. You'll make three choices from the other universities. I'll send you to one of those choices. He won. Has he been proven innocent? It's been done. Will he be back on duty? He'll be back. What's the difference between teaching at Nacmettin Erbakan University and teaching at the University of Gazi? Something happened to me before September 12th. I'm in custody, I'm in interrogation. The interrogator at the police station is torturing, and he's asking -- they're arguing with each other -- he says, "Ask me where the teacher is." I teach in Bahtiyar village of Divrik district of Sivas. ▪ How many students do you have? If my captain were in a place of 100 students, not 11 students - God forbid - he would have poisoned 100 students, so it is good that he is in a place of 11 students. There is no difference between a student and a thousand students. So if you're going to extradite the academic, your job is to return to the university that you've already deposed. He's got honor, he's got a way of life. Dear friends, Mr. Mehmet Bey has just told us from the People's Democratic Party. The 35-year-old limit is against the Constitution's principle of equality. If the Constitution has forced us to make a law on these violations again, let's not do business knowing it's against our will. Many academics say 35 is good, but some say that the 35-year-old limit would be against the principle of equality. We made our proposals at the Commission on this, and they were rejected. I hope the General Assembly finds a common ground in this matter. Besides, there are disciplinary measures. Three of my fellow speakers who spoke before me also referred to it in different ways. Democracy, freedom, opens the way to science. If you suspend democracy, suspend freedoms, you prevent the production of scientists. When you're in the way of production, there's nothing you can add to this country. The 7th, 8th, and 9th items described 25 types of crimes. Government Officers Act 657 was brought here, then it wasn't enough, and there were additionals. You discipline a professor, for one reason or another, there is no union representative in the process of punishing that professor. Now, unions are not just structures that defend the rights of their members against the state, but also a structure that organises its members to be efficient in society and in its field through self-control management. Union representatives were actually on disciplinary boards until today because that's what the collective contract says. Who did you make the collective contract with? You did it with MEMUR-SEN. In your collective agreement with MEMUR-SEN, the union representative was actually held on the disciplinary board as part of that collective agreement. Now, why are you taking this off with the law? We have to legalize the work that's been done. Once we've established legal status, no harm will be done to those who run the university, the state, or the state. Wherever there are union representatives, both employees and universities benefit. Dear lawmakers, we in the Commission have students who have been victims for almost five years, especially according to the amnesty law passed yesterday. Some of these students couldn't deposit their money, some missed their exams, some of them couldn't do two years of shepherding on the mountain, but today, they want to go back to college, and there's an expectation of forgiveness for that. Students who expect this pardon have not only expressed their demands to the Republican People's Party Group, but to all political party groups and individual lawmakers for months. So we proposed an additional clause, but unfortunately our offer was rejected by the Commission. Why don't we forgive the thief, the nobleman, the degenerate, the Tosunjuk, I want to read, I want to get a college degree, I want to do it even though I know I'm unemployed. Why don't we forgive the student who says, "I'm going to be unemployed?" If you really think of the amnesty law we passed yesterday as a fair, equal, embracer of everything, and you said yes because you saw it, we said no because we didn't see it, come today, I say let us extend this hand, this hand of support to those who really need forgiveness. Dear lawmakers, teachers are being provided with flexible study material. Now, we think the teachers didn't work during this period. A teacher is like a journalist, a journalist is considered a 24-hour employee. When journalists are sitting in their homes, when they smell a story, they get out of bed and go and do the story. I want you to know - I'm a teacher - and the teacher can't really sleep in his bed if his student fails. The teacher makes every effort to make sure his student succeeds. Now, you're going to say that our Ministry of National Education is doing a great job, remote education. Do you know what remote training is under these conditions? Two courses a day, twenty minutes a day, two minutes a day, 40 minutes a day, two hundred minutes a day. So, what was normal teaching? He was studying for two hundred minutes in one day. I don't think you think your student's 20 minutes of remote training is going anywhere. Well, you know what happens? After 20 minutes, the teacher calls the student, talks to her student about those classes, gives her homework, checks again a day later. I mean, the teacher doesn't sleep at home, the teacher is at home taking care of her child, her student. So you can't ignore the teacher's work. There are staffers in public education, master teachers. He says: 'You didn't start a course, so I'm not paying you a lesson.' Do you know how many people? 2,800 people. Oh, it's a conscience! Why cut the tuition for 2,800 people? Contracted teachers, paid teachers... especially paid teachers were not paid first, and then the Minister of National Education made the necessary effort to do so, and the fees were paid, but the problems of public education continue. Dear lawmakers, we will appreciate the teacher's value, the professor's value because these are the parts that will bring bright tomorrows to this country. We'll never forget to take care of these segments. Finally, I'd like to say that two more foundation colleges are being established. It is founded in Ankara, and within Bilkent, a 35,000 square metre area is given to this foundation university. We don't know what this foundation college will do tomorrow. Two universities are established; one of them has been studying for eight years, and one of them has nothing to do with education. We don't understand that new foundation universities are being established when we can't find jobs for graduates from universities that have been founded so far. In that regard, I invite you to question this matter.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0181par0184	Let's move on, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0180par0185	Finally, I'd like to say that we have masks, but believe me, there are no masks in most of the population, they can't reach them. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of the Justice and Development Party held a meeting with the chiefs at the palace each week. Later, he said: "These distributions, aid, and any relationship will be made by the chiefs. " The gates of the Mukhtars are full of people, and there are tails. The Mukhtars are miserable, the chiefs don't know what to do. Please remember the chiefs you had a meeting with at the palace and take care of the chiefs. If you don't have these chiefs, you can actually see once again that none of your meetings mean anything. We care very much for our children and our young ones to go to the theater. Because of this coronavirus, our children can't go to the theater, but last week, we saw a theater.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0182par0189	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0180par0190	I'm finishing. I thank Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Minister of Interior Mr. Süleyman Soylu, who has given us the opportunity to watch the theatre! They made us watch a play this weekend, and we got rid of the kids at the theater. My compliments to all of you, and I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0183par0194	It doesn't suit a teacher. That doesn't suit a teacher. He's your Minister, he's your Minister.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0184par0195	Yeah, he's looking after our internal affairs, he's looking after the party's internal affairs! He's probably saying it's because he's looking after the party's internal affairs.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0180par0196	I just made him watch the theatre. I said, "Thank you." I said thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0183par0197	I didn't watch theater, I watched the truth, please. Take care of it.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0185par0198	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0186par0199	Mr. Turan, one moment, sir, if you'll excuse me. Yes, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Kaya has made a point, and I'd like to make a statement in case there's no misinformation here. In his speech, if I understand correctly, he said: "These are not being extradited, even though there is a Constitutional Court's decision. There is no such decision in the Constitutional Court, Mr. Kaya. The Constitutional Court has no decision to extradite these signatory academics to higher education institutions. The AYM decision is related to nine signatory academics, each of whom has been sentenced to one year and three months in prison and who have been ordered to drop the sentence. AYM considers the sentence a violation of rights. Apart from this decision, there is no court order for the extradition of signatory academics to higher education institutions. It's clear that the court, in some way, has decided to condemn these nine academics, and when this decision goes to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court considers it a violation of their rights. Therefore, what you have brought up here on the stand has nothing to do with it, I present it to the General Assembly. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0187par0207	For the record...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0186par0208	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0187par0209	It is true that the Constitutional Court has made a decision not to extradite. However, the State of Emergency Commission must immediately announce its decision based on the Constitutional Court's decision on this matter. In this regard, the State of Emergency Commission does nothing. It's been four years, and I haven't accepted his decision in four years. Let him say or say that the Constitutional Court has also made a statement on this matter -- he hasn't reported it to them -- but we're returning it to his position. So let him make a decision, positive or negative.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0188par0210	Don't let them stay in limbo.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0186par0211	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0189par0213	Mr. President, once again, we're trying to continue the process without taking too much credit for the procedure economy. However, I carefully followed the speaker. For once, we should have taken more advantage of it because it was his own profession, if only he had remained in law. But, like this, in the last chapter, we saw some of our friends with the example again that they were referring to different topics to make polemics. Look, I respect the resignation of our Minister of Interior, which he referred to as "the theatre," and then the president's refusal to accept this resignation, and the speaker's own president on TV. Think of a party, the President of the President says he respects a process, but another MP says he respects the process. I'll leave that to the public, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0186par0216	Let's move on, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0189par0217	Second: We can say a lot about it. We have a hardworking, precious Minister. He brought up his resignation for a process. No, the president said, "Let's keep working together." But we shouldn't have any questions, Mr. President, whether it's a theatre or not. We enjoy the theater, something else, but political theater is a job that is not in our culture, not in our party. If your President-General has changed the tape to a theater, you can look at it as theater. If your president-in-chief has gone to the palace in secret, he has not gone to the palace. If his theatre is addressed to the fights and factions within his party, you can call it theater. But in AK PARTI culture, there's never been an approach to such a thing as theater, Mr. President, there won't be.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0190par0219	In the name of the group, would you open it?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0189par0220	I didn't, Mr. President, please.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0191par0221	Presenting the group, Mr. Kaya.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0190par0223	Now, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, I think, is taking what I'm saying to a different level. Thousands, hundreds of thousands of people went out on the street that night, and I think the Home Secretary knows what diseases hundreds of thousands of people have infected our lives, and so do the MPs. If I took responsibility for such a decision, and I did wrong, and I did an irresponsible thing that would cost hundreds of thousands of lives. If he is resigning, it must be accepted.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0192par0224	It's the President's decision to make.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0190par0225	As he submits his resignation, he says: "Mr. President's decision, and I have done this practice.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0193par0227	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0190par0228	He later reports that it is a personal practice and that he will resign as a liability. There are thousands of people in the Justice and Development Party who are going to do it. If a person says I made a mistake, it has to be accepted. If it's not accepted, you can't keep the community busy for two days. And there were people going out on the street that day, and there were street shows when his resignation wasn't accepted. I thought we couldn't stand together. I thought we couldn't go out on the street without a mask. What happened to those horns and cars? Whose show was it? You don't do politics by showing off. Let the change of our presidents set an example for every party in Turkey.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0194par0230	God forbid.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0190par0231	Our presidents change in democracy, but the ones you brought in today, the ones you walked in with, the accusations of your partnership...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0195par0232	With the tape... with the tape...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0190par0233	Don't do this. If you argue about the tape, I'll take you to parties where you're together today at the Cumhur Alliance...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0195par0234	Let the change of our presidents be an example. As you said, I'm talking to him.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0196par0235	Mr. Kaya, thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0197par0236	Mr. President, for the record. Of course, any decision to conduct can be criticised; we respect the action, but accusing it of the theatre is another expression. We reject that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0198par0238	Which one of you has the people on the street?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0199par0239	For us, people have been out on the street a lot.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0200par0243	Now on behalf of the individuals, Mr. Mustafa Yeneroglu, the Istanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Yeneroglu.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0201par0245	▪ What does it mean for which one of you?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0202par0246	They're out on the street for me, and they're out on the street for you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0201par0247	Mr. President, we clearly cannot accept such an insult. I'm so sorry...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0203par0248	Guys, he didn't tell you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0201par0249	You can't call us for whom! Learn to show some respect!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0204par0250	We make men of ourselves, and you make men of yourselves!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0201par0251	Millions will be on the street for us, millions.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0205par0252	There's a speaker on the stand, please...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0204par0253	It's not right to be out on the street during an epidemic.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0205par0254	Here you are, Mr. Yeneroglu.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0206par0255	I salute you with respect, Mr. President, the most esteemed lawmakers. Before I begin my words, on behalf of the DEVA Party, I wish God's mercy to our citizens who died of the coronavirus, condolences and patience to their relatives, and I hope that our citizens who are being treated will recover as soon as possible. Dear friends, we are discussing the Higher Education Law, which has been submitted by members of the EC PARTY Group to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. With a 28-point proposal, changes in various issues related to universities and academics have been envisioned in 26 articles, as well as 2 articles aimed at reducing the negative effects of the Covid-19 epidemic to higher education and meeting the needs of students. When I examine the proposal of the law, I especially notice two goals. First of all, to make all professors officers of authority and punish those who are not subject in violation of constitutional rules. Second, the autonomous foundation is to further limit the areas of the universities to be able to remove their operating permits and confiscate them as soon as they are needed. In this context, one of the most problematic regulations of the proposal is the 7th article, which includes changes in Article 53 of the Higher Education Law concerning the disciplinary responsibility of the faculty. In accordance with the clause, new additions have been brought from the State Officers' Law to the actions and conditions under which disciplinary action is imposed, such as warning, reprimand, or dismissal from public office. There are many examples of these additions, but I'd just like to present a few of the most striking. One of the verbs offered to be added is to verbally disrespect your superior during his duties. You can appreciate that this expression is an uncertain arrangement of measure and limitation. Even the criticism of the president or the dean can be easily introduced into this concept. Again, the second term, which is highly objectionable, is that a total of 20 days a year without an apology or permission. The penalty for exclusion of the university's teaching profession is foreseen. In this case, especially considering the Constitutional Court's decision -- which was made a year ago -- the decision stated that civil servants and professors are in a different position as a quality and therefore cannot be subject to the same procedure. Nevertheless, an arrangement, free of academic freedom and security, has been brought to our attention, with understanding that it will turn universities into an ordinary state office, with arbitrary consequences. However, in this article, there is a statement that will produce more harmful, irreparable consequences because of the examples we have constantly witnessed from the arrangements that I have just counted. It is the provision of a statement, such as propaganda by terrorist organisations, to be in or to help with these organisations, to use or use public resources to support these organisations. According to the Constitutional Court's decision, this article further expands the scope of the definition of terrorism, containing a violation of the principle of legal specificity with broad and open terms. The authority to be given to the administration by this arrangement will prevent the freedom of expression of many academics and allow new ones to join the caravan of countless criminal thinkers in our country. This is going to turn universities into higher and higher high schools, and many more scientists will have to leave our country. Because many intellectuals have been wrongfully judged by these eviscerated substances, violence, and even determination, which have nothing to do with terrorism. Dear lawmakers, it must not be forgotten that academic freedom of the basic values of the state of law requires professors to conduct scientific activities in a free environment and to freely share their thoughts with the community and live free minds and minds for a democratic society. Respected friends, it is in no way acceptable for individuals to be punished for the propaganda of a terrorist organization unless they praise and defend hatred and violence, and without a final court order. For this reason, we believe this clause will be corrected on the basis of the democratic state of law during the General Assembly talks, or it will already be annulled by the Constitutional Court. Precious friends, the other controversial clause of the proposal is the 13th article, which directly affects Istanbul City University and other foundations universities. According to the regulation, the amendment to Article 11 of Higher Education Law 2547 can be closed by the decision of the YOK, which temporarily halted the permit to operate. First of all, if there's an institution that needs to be closed, it's the SEC itself. As for the arrangement, the point shot is arranged in detail how to shut down the foundation university, what will happen to the founding foundation, how to claim the property they own. As we know, laws are objective, not personal or institutional laws. Sadly, however, the political will had made it very clear in advance that the City University would cancel its operating permit, providing its purpose to parliament as a law by mediating the law into the political reckoning. This road endangers all universities of the foundation within the city university, setting the basis for legal legitimacy for a arbitrary application. All democrats who advocate the autonomy and freedom of all foundation universities must respond to this anti-constitutional arrangement, not just to the family of the City University. Because today, those who try to shut down City University, one of our country's finest universities, will be able to go to other foundation universities tomorrow because they have eyebrows over their eyes, and, as in this example, they will be able to undermine rights and justice. Congressmans, yesterday, I listened to Mr. Omar Dinçer Bey's grief, who lived in the lines of power, who was our traveling companion, who was our ministry for many years, and who taught many of us here, please listen to the televisions. I felt his deep pain as he listened, and I was really sorry. What ideals did we set out to do today? We were on our way together, with the promise that everyone would find peace, that the freedomist and pluralist democratic Turkey would fight. Today, we have become an authoritarian Turkey, which underpins more fundamental rights every day, punishes free thought, fills prisons with intellectuals, with journalists, avoids the free civil society, bombards parliament with uniform society regulations, disbands justice by its judiciary, unfortunately. Let's just look at the law of execution in the last days -- the law of higher education -- which is in front of us -- and hopefully, it's true -- the plan to end the social media that's been withdrawn. What's Omar Hodja supposed to do in these situations? Of course, we will fight against it, and of course we will build the liberal, pluralist, participatory, democratic Turkey, and we will bring Turkey back to a high, prosperous, society. Respected lawmakers, I would like to point out again that this bill should not be supported. Because, in the interest of our country, it would be the greatest injustice to accept changes in the proposal, in law, universities, our nation, and the future of Turkey, as opposed to the scientific autonomy of universities and academic freedoms of professors. I salute the General Assembly and all of our MPs again.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0207par0271	On behalf of the individuals, our other speaker, Congressman of the Army, Mr. Mustafa Adil. Here they are, Mr. Good Name.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0208par0274	Mr. President, Congressman, what are we going to talk about today? There are 26 million students in an 80 million country, 8 million college students. We live in a country where one of the three are students and one of the 10 are university students. Are we really going to talk about a proposal that's focused on the basic problems, that has solutions? I'm afraid not. So, what do we do? Instead of creating a modern, autonomous university based on current conditions and Supreme Court decisions, we're discussing a few technical details in the part of the iceberg above water. Consider: We have a survivor, a broken arm, a broken eye, internal bleeding. You can't treat this person by dressing him in a few volumes. KHK No. 676 and the presidential elections have been lifted. With SEC 703, the rectors are appointed directly by the President, without an election, and without a driver's license, without a definition of merit. I mean, what do you expect from a weak university to even choose your own president? In which of the top 10 universities of the world does the chancellor come with the appointment? And how did you appoint him? It does not come from the so - called teachers who have not received knowledge; do you want him who claims to be Noah's cell phone, or he who presents camel piss as a cure for the people? Didn't you appoint a man who believed in the impropriety of the ignorant who didn't read it? There are three counties in my district, Giresun, Army and Samsun. The president of all three is from theology; both are former candidates for parliament from the AKP. Do not show friendship, partisanism in education and health. If National Education Minister Hasan Ali Yücel had pulled strings instead of Gazi Yaşargil and sent his son, Can Yücel, a scholarship abroad, this country would have been both from Gazi Yasargil and from Can Yücel. This way, where we come from, there's not a single Turkish university in the world's first 500. Dear friends, after the July 15 coup attempt, apart from those involved in the coup, many left-wing intellectuals, who had nothing to do with the coup, were punished just because they were opposed to power, were involved in the KHK process. July 15th was turned into an opportunity, and 6,000 professors were punished not only with themselves, but with their families and students. You also closed the judicial path to these people, and then those academics who were extradited with Article 10 of Law 7975 were prevented from returning to their institutions. His innocence has been proven, his extradition has been accepted, so why don't you send him to his own colleges? Because you're going to put your own men where they can come from. To do so, there were appointments for disinterested areas; geography, forestry; forestry, computer engineering; veterinary, medical school. It's not like there's a single shoe size in the individual's private ads when the specific conditions are listed. The right to education is an individual right. It is constitutionally guaranteed that everyone will receive a qualified, broke, and equal education. The AKP, however, has destroyed education in public schools in accordance with scientific principles with ideological interference. For the peace academics, after the Constitutional Court's decision, there are those who have been acquitted from severe criminal courts. The State of Emergency Review Commission is blocking the files; in this way, the State of Emergency Review Commission has emerged from a right-seeking agency and has become an institution blocking the judiciary. Congregations, foundations and associations are running around in national education. This occupation has come to a point where it has become a power struggle in its own region and institutional areas, and even today, when it sees the first day's scandal on EBA TV, the execution scene, the head blow, the backstabbing, it shows that the process has gone to sabotage even the Minister of National Education. This education system is such a disaster that you, the AKP government, are very skilled at turning every disaster into an opportunity, the July 15 coup attempt...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0209par0279	It's a shame. It's a shame, it's a shame.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0208par0280	...the earthquake of the hand, and now the Covid-19 outbreak. In addition to being a disaster, you saw it as an opportunity to get help, to give out an IBAN number. In fact, when you see this educational system as a disaster, is it going to be a bigger disaster than this? Give me an IBAN number for this educational system, and you'll get a higher turnover.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0209par0281	It's a shame.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0208par0282	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, by the way, you've received $2 trillion in taxes from this nation in 17 years, 70 billion privatisations, 500 billion dollars in loans; $30 TL is 80 euros, 40 TL is $120, 3 TL is $15 for cigarettes, 1 TL is $5. Now, there's earthquakes, there's no money, there's natural disasters, there's no money, there's viral outbreaks, there's no money. So, friend, what did you do with all this money?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0210par0283	Hodja, go to Turkey, Mustafa Hajji, go to Turkey.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0208par0284	We're going for a ride, don't worry. By the way, I'd like to say a few words about the death law that was passed last night.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0210par0286	The army road...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0208par0287	You'll answer after I speak. You have taken advantage of every section of this law, kept the criminals, the media members, even the private peacemakers, the middle of the night, and the mornings of this great assembly. You have made special arrangements for the individual by disinheriting the MIT Law. Why? Because they don't talk the way you like it, they don't write. According to you, it doesn't matter if they fought the enemy, whether they were patriots or Ataturkers. Look, there's peace in there, who's out there? Those who call the state a serial killer, call their father a martyr, what did Fetullah Gulen do to you... if he raises his followers as terrorists, his 20-year-old followers are 50 years old, there's still nothing left. When did you open investigations for those who said, "When is this terrorist organization going to take action?" I didn't hear you say anything to the people who went out in a panic on the night of April 10th to the palace that called them retards and bears. Isn't it a good thing that the people who were insulted and humiliated were in charge of this power? In fact, such periods also reveal the hypocrisy of these court clowns. So, dear friends, what is it? It doesn't matter if he's a patriot, it's important that he's an ally. It is required that the news channels speak only lies from a hundred to a hundred, and the newspapers serve in the order of lies and plunder from morning to evening. Yes, when it's not, it's not beer, it's peace, patriots, intellectuals inside; the price is being paid. There is a saying that I love, dear friends: nothing that is planted with a needle of love will be removed until the end of the day. We love our land, our people with this love. We pay the price, but there is another saying: There will be a day when you break its leg and it will weigh you. I'm not going to go into matter, our friends are going to talk, I just want to talk about one item. In Article 7 of the article, there are ethical flaws that are defined as plagiarism, which are more severe than that; fabrication and distortion should be added. There's something like this written on the third line, but it also includes the condition of being used for appointment. Even if it is not used in the appointment, such as the one in the first row, those who publish with fabrication and distortion data should also be removed from the academics. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0211par0292	Mr. President, I have a request for a statement according to 60.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0212par0293	Mr. Danış Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0211par0296	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to say a word to everyone who's been held in prisons: three days, with the opportunisticism of AKP power, without televisions, we've been presented with an execution package. In fact, at an illegal rate, 360 undetected special pardon packages were delivered. I want all prisoners and prisoners to know about this. We object not to those who are released, but to those who are kept inside. There's a very wrong, dark propaganda about this. On the contrary, our request that we could evacuate all prisons, except for those who committed crimes against women and children due to a single-matter outbreak of the corona epidemic, that there may be a home permit, that there may be an execution, and that no one should be left to die in prisons has been accepted.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0213par0300	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0211par0301	Corona's opportunity gave them a chance to change 11 laws, one item about corona. I'd like to announce this to nearly 300,000 inmates and inmates inside. Mr. President, the opportunism continues with all its power. In particular, it is forbidden to dismiss the President. We see that many companies speed up the dismissals. I have a message now; I care very much, so I'd like to share it with you: (Vakilim, we 10 workers worked at Ankara Elmadağdaş Holding Steels Ankara-Sivas high-speed train site.) On 22 March 2020, three cases were detected in an unhygienic construction environment due to the Covid-19 outbreak. That's why we're being sent to us by the subcontractor who employs us. It's been said that we've come to our hometown of Pain.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0213par0304	Complete, please.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0211par0305	He gave the 29th article of the Work Law a reason and an exit. We called the SGK. They said you can't demand any rights. We get three months off, plus half the salary we work for, and we don't get compensation. The president said it was forbidden to lay off. We trusted him, but we specifically ask for our rights from Steel Holdings and subcontractors, SEO Engineering firms. This is very important, and we need to take immediate steps to avoid the common demands of workers, which is to prevent layoffs that are contrary to the Labour Law and bylaws. Mr. President, my last message is regarding PTT employees. We receive dozens of messages, and all PTT employees say: "We are very afraid, the measures are not enough; when we deliver mail to people, we distribute them to people, or people infect us with corona. There are no additional payments, no bonuses, and we want to do a transformational study, as in health. There are even close to 20 cases of mail distribution in Esenyurt, but there are serious pressure on those who receive the report. In fact, do not continue to give these reports to the doctors who report. We know that there is a threat.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0213par0308	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0211par0309	I want to say that we PTT employees need to be protected, arranged for them to work in a transformational manner, and that in order not to infect, not to spread, all measures must be taken, and that we are on their side. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0213par0311	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0214par0313	Mr. President, thank you. Believe me, I'm surprised where we're going with this. We've been faced with a conversation that upsets us so much. Look, this IBAN thing, my friends are insisting on it. We've had one of the best examples of state-national integration in Turkey in this last charity campaign, Mr. President. It's not that our government is economically troubled or anything, it's that there's a problem, and we want the whole nation to shoulder it. When you look at the numbers that have already been collected, it's a huge added value, and everyone's backing up here, but the number in the middle is one or two billion. In our smallest pen, much bigger numbers are being spent on health investments. Mr. President, right now there's almost no government among OECD countries that's making corona treatments without money. Turkey has just decided today that no payment will be paid, and the state will take care of the cost of all our patients.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0215par0318	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0214par0319	What I'm trying to say is that even though we know that we're the world's most coveted health investments, the fact that we're the 1st in the world in terms of the intensive care unit, I think it's the most beautiful picture of how shy an attitude is from the investments of his own country is. I wish it hadn't been expressed that way, Mr. President. And beyond health, there were some statements in yesterday's execution law that I thought were beyond the mean, such as the midnight motions, such as the midnight operations. Mr. President, none of us have any intention of working at night, no claim, but if you think it's a political maneuver to avoid passing a law that millions expect in eight or ten days, we can do our work at night. Look, the current law is a reasonable law, a law with few arguments, but even so, we were able to move on to the agenda today at seven o'clock, which will probably last until morning.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0216par0324	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0214par0325	So, Mr. President, the motion for the morning is due to a procedure, not an operation as alleged. If the negotiations of this law proposal are blocked right now, we're going to have to delay our motions whether we want to or not. What I don't understand, what I think is weird, what I don't make up, is that there's people out there who are supposed to be saying that the killer is the government, and so on and so forth. It's not that hard, I went to Google to see who it was. He calls this state a serial killer, and in court he agrees to be the head of the Istanbul Province of his own parties. There's a theater where the speaker just accused us of it. I mean, if it's a theater, if it's an inside-the-party reckoning, they need to be more specific. We have come to be equal to all crimes, except terrorism, sexual crimes, and such crimes, but we have found it true that the law does not apply in the area that we have expressed along with the MHP, which is called the red line, which can be criticised.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0216par0328	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0214par0329	This law can also be criticised, but I don't find it right to face accusations we don't deserve when we do this criticism, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0217par0332	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0214par0333	Mr. President, I never picked on you again.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0218par0334	Mr. Rock, come in.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0217par0336	Now, it's true that Mr. Deputy Director of the Group says that the Turkish nation, the people of Turkey, know cooperation, solidarity, and do what is necessary. I mean, I don't understand that the tax-reduction grant is a donation from the Agriculture Bank, the People's Bank, the shopkeepers, the banks who care about the farmer. Secondly, a donation is made, of course, and the poor are helped. If we want to see this, what needs to be done is that before the IBAN number is sent to the citizen at the fundraiser, those who have taken the IBAN number from the citizen and tied the donors' hands can't talk about solidarity, the imposition, because municipalities have done the most intense work of this charity.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0219par0339	We've talked about this a lot, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0217par0340	We talked a lot, and we talked a lot about you talking.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0220par0341	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0217par0342	After the start of the free distribution of these masks, the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Services said, "We will sell them with money." But when Republican People's Party municipalities start handing them out for free, should we distribute them with a pharmacist, or should we distribute them in some other way?" We do in-party reckonings in our conventions as part of democracy. Inside-the-party reckonings are the work of those who attacked their minister with their Twitter trolls. If you're looking for an inside-the-party reckoning, there's three parties out of the Justice and Development Party that's done 18 years.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0220par0345	Thank you, Mr. Kaya.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0217par0346	The Republican People's Party is a hundred-year-old party.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0221par0347	Did you make that mask in Adana? Did you distribute it in Adana? Where did you distribute it?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0222par0348	Mr. President, on behalf of the group or on behalf of the person?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0223par0349	On behalf of the group, representing the group, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0224par0350	I speak for the group, representing the group.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0222par0351	But yeah, but we've never had a pick-up like this. It's a whole different story.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0224par0352	Look, it's a different story, unless, of course, you bring it to a different point, and you tell me about the back-to-the-party deal, and 18 years later, you gave birth to three parties.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0225par0353	You've had hundreds of parties.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0224par0354	A hundred-year-old party has to think a little bit about the Republican People's Party, the party that founded this country and gave democracy to this country. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0226par0357	Thank you, Mr. Rock. Mr. Danış Beştaş, come in.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0227par0360	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Turan has made a statement that includes the sentences I use, and I need to answer. He said that if you stopped the law, I told him that we stopped it, that it was done on the weekend. I want to answer that. We're not trying to block any laws, on the contrary, we say that the law must encompass everyone, equal, fair, objective, and abstract, but with the motion of midnight, yes, it included a few journalists in order to prevent them from coming out.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0228par0362	We've answered these, I'm not going back in, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0227par0363	Again, with the midnight motion, they offered disciplinary pardons, pardons for the murderer, thief, rapist, disciplinary pardons, but not for the journalist, but for the politician, but for the teacher, but for his lawyer, this disciplinary pardon.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0229par0365	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0230par0366	You've made a motion for seven days until morning. Leave it at midnight!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0227par0367	We know the midnight motions of power, and we're used to it. There's also an influx in the public right now -- especially among women -- I've received thousands of phone calls, and there's a law proposal that legitimizes early marriages, but pay attention! Our phones have been locked up since yesterday. We're telling you right now, if you're thinking of bringing something like this, it's obvious where we're standing.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0231par0369	Yeah, who are we gonna ask, you guys? For God's sake!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0227par0370	If you're going to legitimize a marriage between a man and a woman with a 15-year-old age difference, we, the Democratic Party of Peoples, are going to be right on the front line of it. During the execution package -- Mr. President -- we didn't stop it, but we did it seven days ago -- that this package was not equal, this package was a special package of amnesty, hundreds of thousands of prisoners and convicts...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0232par0372	Complete.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0227par0373	...that he left for the dead, that the rule of law, the state of law, democracy, and especially the threat of corona, but all the arrangements they made were against what we said. They will release their followers, their followers, their pledges; they will come out, because they will be saved, but we will continue to preserve the rights of those who are in it. It's become so that a name like Idris Baluken can die in the back row. There's a ruling party that says, "Let him die."
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0233par0374	We've said this a thousand times, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0227par0375	It's appropriate for a mother's child to be shipped away by cargo. There's an unconscionable Group Deputy President who says...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0233par0376	Where did I say that, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0227par0377	It wasn't you. ...We used our rights according to the Civil Code, but...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0233par0379	Where did I say that?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0227par0380	It wasn't you, yes, it was Mr. Cahit Özkan. I'm even saying his name. I showed the pictures here, and I said, "Can you send a funeral with the cargo, will you do it?"
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0234par0382	The prosecution denied him, the prosecution denied him.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0235par0383	Thank you, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0227par0384	I'm finishing, last sentence. I said, "Are you going to investigate?" He said, "It's appropriate." So, what's appropriate is that the funerals are shipped out now?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0236par0386	The D.A.'s office denied him, and you're still talking.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0227par0387	That's the remorse, that's the injustice we deny.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit02spe0237par0388	I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0237par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 85th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 212. The commission is in place. Without a question-answer request, we've got deputies asking for a short word, and we're going to make a promise to our deputies right away. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0238par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, all primary schools, secondary schools, high schools and universities have been vacationed because of the coronovirus. The uncertainty of universities continues. Some universities continue to study from a distance, and some universities do not study from a distance very regularly. In this regard, a quick decision must be made and the question marks on the minds of students studying at the university must be satisfied. Will training continue in the summer? Or are these kids going to be passed this year? What's the solution? This needs to be announced immediately. The other problem is that there are over a million students who have been cut off from colleges for different reasons -- the inability to invest, the registration, the ice cream, the deletion, and the grades. These students want to go back to school. As to the return of these students to schools, an arrangement must now be made with the CEC Law and must be made to return to the university.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0239par0014	Mr. Aycan...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0240par0016	Mr. President, our Constitution says that non-profit foundations can open universities, but the current situation of the foundations is that they're becoming businesses for the purpose of making some money. In particular, you need to question the qualifications of the foundations that teach prefabricated buildings that are not available for infrastructure. The universities, which initially carry these qualities and then fail, should be questioned, preventing them from being just graduate schools. Schools and quotas are causing young people's unemployment. Modern university is measured by employing its student. The more a university puts its students into work, the more successful it is.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0239par0017	Mr. Yasar...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0241par0019	Thank you, Mr. President. Our presidents of the Association of Journalists have asked us to deliver the following demands because of the corona virus: 1) Local media companies in Anatolia -- those who employ at least 5 workers -- want loans from the Credit Guarantee Fund or from KOSGEB. 2) They want to postpone payments to official institutions -- SGK and Finance debts -- for at least a year. 3) They want the VAT rate reflected in advertising and ads and the Press Agency's share reduced to 5 per cent. 4) Local radio and television companies ask that their share of RTÜK and frequency costs not be taken for a while, especially at copyright prices. 5) TÜRKSAT demands a delay in paying the satellite price for a period of time, and not exchanges, but a chance to pay for it at TürkSAT. 6) Public spotlights want to ensure a settlement with Turkish and RTÜK. 7) In the same way, the Press Administrator should at least pay our three-month salary. 8) They want low interest loans for technological infrastructure to be used for digital transformation of local media. 9) The paper used in the newspaper edition should not be affected by the increase in currency of imports such as molds and ink, and the customs duties should be completely nullified.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0242par0030	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0243par0032	Thank you, Mr. President. CHP Adana MP has claimed that Turkey imports potatoes and onions from the bench, while our farmer's exports of onions and potatoes are not allowed. This claim is completely unrealistic. The port of Mersin came to our country not for imports of potatoes and onions from Egypt, Jordan, or other countries, but for transit operations to Syria and Iraq to transport land from here. Our country is not importing onions and potatoes. The preacher knowingly conceals this fact, says he has misinformed our great House and its public opinion, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0242par0034	"Dear Nameful..." No. The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 15th article. Mr. Senol Sunat is an Ankara MP on behalf of the PARTI Group who wants to speak on chapter one. Here you go, Mr. Sunat.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0244par0045	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the good PARTI Group on the Law of Higher Education 212 and the Proposal to Change Some Laws. I salute the General Assembly. Before we get to the point, I would like to express my condolences to Mr. Haydar Başaş, the leader of the Independent Turkey Party, who died because of Covid-19, and to all of our citizens who have died so far. I wish for immediate healing to all our patients who are being treated at the hospital. I give my undying thanks to all of our health workers, our scientists, who bring their nights into the day. I'm also giving thanks separately to our security forces, everyone who has to work and serve our nation. Congressmans, of course, before we get to the point again, I'd like to share with you how tragicly tragic the statement made by Mr. President yesterday. Instead of contributing to our country's fight at this critical time, the opposition media organizations and columnists have waged a war against the country, they are all signs of a more dangerous disease than the virus, he said. In a nutshell, our country will be free of media and political viruses. After 18 years of your power, you were able to control almost 95 percent of the media. The press are even preventing you from asking questions, Mr. President. What kind of mentality is that? Where's Turkey going? Is everyone supposed to say what you say, what you want? You sailed from autocracy to totalitarian? May this beloved Turkish nation be rid of you and your morbid mentality forever and ever and ever. Yesterday, with the motion that you brought to the execution law, you even eliminated the possibility that Murat Azel and 2 Peace would come out. You're violating the law according to the individual. Your injustices, persecutions, violations, as you have done in everything, will be the end of your power, I hope. Mr. Noble has resigned, the President has refused. Okay, we get it, it was closed on a controversial topic with shows; it was a good show. The chief advisor, Ibrahim Kalk, said, "No one will be able to undermine our unity and unity." And who are the ax-shooters, Mr. Lawmakers? What traitorous focus interferes with your unity? Dear lawmakers, we, God willing, will get through these difficult days, and we, the Turkish nation, will get out of this trouble. Sickness, despair is a bad situation, God forbid our nation, but what is worse than the disease of citizens is the mental state of those who run the state. Unfortunately, there's a departure in Turkey today, and there's a favor. The corrupt contractors are favoured by the poor man's money, by those who enjoy yachts, and those who oppose them are separated. Politicians who put nearly half a million people on the street within two hours, who spread the virus to millions of people are favoured; journalists who report this error are separated.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0245par0052	Millions of people are infected?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0244par0053	Dear lawmakers destroy a state, not disease, but injustice; a nation, not virus, but discrimination. My advice to power is, please quarantine your segregation mentality; not just put a mask on your face, but on your vanity; disinfect your ideas:
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0245par0054	Disinfect yourself!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0246par0055	Disinfect your soul!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0244par0056	Be fair, be righteous, unite so you don't live longer than the virus.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0245par0058	Disinfect yourself!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0244par0059	You've managed perception, and you haven't managed the crisis until now, and you can't control perception anymore.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0245par0060	We rule best in the world.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0247par0061	The whole world sees how we rule.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0244par0062	Yes, in this proposal of the law, valued lawmakers have discussed the shortcomings and changes that have arisen in the implementation of the NGO. I also stated in the Commission that we have a positive opinion on many of the articles. I would like you to note once again that our universities will not be able to achieve a scientific, contemporary and productive structure unless we get rid of ideological and political pressures, without choosing their own rulers, with an understanding based on merit. There's disciplinary regulations under which the teaching staff is committed. The disciplinary provisions imposed by Law 657 and civil servants have been tried to adapt to the academy. My request is that academic discipline cannot be created according to 657. It has become one of the most popular institutions in Mobbingin, universities, especially when the President appoints the rectors, a friend, a relative... look, the law is being massacred in this country, not a sound from law schools. I'm just saying, understand what we've become. See the article's "Admission" (d) column (d) for academic careers, where there is an unconstitutional application or complaint for people who have had an academic career. Get it out of the text. What do you mean, ill-advised? It's a vague statement.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0247par0064	Yes, sir! Yes, sir!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0244par0065	Learn to listen, Congressman.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0248par0067	You learn how to talk!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0244par0068	Warning, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0249par0069	Mr. Sunat, please come in.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0244par0070	Again, it is a very subjective definition of disrespecting the commander under the charge. This arrangement was also thought of as the logic that disrespect would only be done to the chiefs and that the chiefs would not disrespect them. This idea is also contrary to the principle of equality of our Constitution, because you want people to swear. Unrecognizable expressions such as the lack of common moral code, immoral conduct, and conduct of conduct in the matter are shameful for the academic field. Disobeying the general moral code is different from the A administrator, which can be perceived in a very different way than the B administrator. This arrangement also reveals the opening of restrictions that would be brought against freedom of expression, freedom of science and art. Since Mr. Umit Özdağ expressed his other views on this matter on behalf of our party, I will continue to express my views on other substances. Yeah, well, there's been some positive arrangements for the foundation colleges. In Turkey, for the past ten years, foundations and foundation universities associated with them have been growing like mushrooms. According to this foundation, its proximity to the ruling party, without any laws or rules, the treasures are reserved. This plundering process is happening in our country, and it's clouding their conscience. A review of the criteria for evaluation of foundations applied by the YÖK to establish a university or educational institution must be decided on merit. It is for the sake of God that you should spend your wealth for the cause of God. The public benefit of the foundation universities is explained as the education service. Oh, yeah? The people who founded the university are either big conglomerates or political organizations -- especially -- or some of the congregations. We've been through all this. There's Coachibey Risalesi, Mr. Lawmakers. He is a 17th - century writer and thinker.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0250par0076	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0244par0077	I'm completing it. Coachibey IV. In his Risalem, a man who had not received the services of religion and state, and had not conquered a country, perhaps not even a village, but only because he was a relative of the Padişah, he had found a way to provide many villages and virtues of the state's treasure from the conquered land many centuries ago. After that, they dedicated the land to which they wished, and made some of it their way into their children's homes. How is that kind of foundation right? He says, "How is food allowed in a religious way? " Is there a difference today, lawmakers? Whoever builds a foundation must establish it from his own property. You'll take the land of the state, you'll take a loan from the bank of the state; it's not a foundation. I'm going to continue with the rest of the material. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0251par0082	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0252par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. The continuity of our students' contributions to our country, science and education, to thousands of degrees of higher education, the postponing of the ALES exams due to the fight against the virus, is also required to be cleared for international equivalency and to resolve this situation, which is causing uncertainty for our students. We need to adjust what needs to be done. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0253par0088	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0254par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. I call the speech of the speaker who just spoke on behalf of the good party an unfortunate conversation. I really think he's the one who needs to disinfect his ideas and conscience. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0255par0094	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0256par0095	Mr. Dervisoglu, come in.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0255par0096	According to 69, Mr. Congressman has the right to answer, I ask the bench to address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0257par0097	Now, Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0256par0098	One moment, sir...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0257par0099	Mr. President, look, I didn't do any bullying. I returned exactly what you directed at us, with language and kindness, without adding anything, and that's it.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0256par0100	Copy that.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0258par0101	Mr. President, if our congressman's word gives my colleague the right to answer, then he has the right to speak to my congressman based on his answer. I beg you...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0256par0102	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0259par0103	There's no such app.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0260par0104	Wait a minute, sir, wait a minute... there's no such thing. Look, I'll be giving a speech from the podium then.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0261par0105	Don't make fun of me, you'll do it.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0260par0106	Okay, okay.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0262par0107	Mr. President, you can't do that.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0263par0108	Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0264par0112	Mr. President, thank you, thank you. I mean, after every conversation, after every conversation, after every conversation, the Vice President of the Group feels the need to say something.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0265par0114	Put your mask on right.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0264par0115	What did I tell you? I said I recommend power.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0265par0116	Put your mask on right.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0264par0117	So, I've made an analogy for this outbreak of the corona virus that we're in today. There's no mistake in the analogy, Mr. Lawmakers. I mean, quarantine that segregative mentality of yours. Get yourself into quarantine! Just don't put that mask on your face, and I told your arrogance to wear that mask, so what's the big deal?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0266par0120	You put it on yourself!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0264par0121	I said, disinfect your ideas. Because you have the right to accept no ideas other than yourself, to judge even the right ideas. Being in power doesn't mean you have to do that. We are here as representatives of our nation, and of course we will share our views with you openly.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0267par0123	Mr. Sunat, thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0264par0124	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0268par0126	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0264par0127	Uh, I'm not out of time yet, Mr. President, so I can continue.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0269par0128	Thank you, Mr. Sunat.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0270par0129	And we say your ideas should be disinfected.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0264par0130	You are the power, the power must listen to criticism.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0269par0131	Well, thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0270par0132	I'm just saying your ideas need to be disinfected. Let your ideas be disinfected.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0271par0133	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0269par0134	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0271par0137	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have just repeated what I said, Mr. Speaker.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0272par0138	You mean, you got his back.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0271par0139	You came to the stand by revealing that it was a taunt when we directed your own words, your own sentences, without adding them, without adding anything to the beginning. So you picked on yourself, picked on yourself. We're getting out of the way. Fight with your own shadow, please, in your own shadow.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0272par0141	You have a great sense!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0273par0145	Ankara MP Mevlüt Karakaya on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here they are, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0274par0148	Mr. President, thank you. Of course, just when the TV clock was about to close, that's how we kept this place busy in the name of teasing. So so far we haven't heard anything particularly significant about the proposal, but we're going to do some thinking, thinking, and assessments of the issues that are being asked here, again. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action for Part One of the proposed law. I salute your high council. First, on March 16, 2020, with the recess of teaching activities, I also salute our students, students, students who have stayed away from their universities, their campuses, their campuses, their classrooms, their classrooms, their amphibians, their canteens, their college environment, their friends, their students, and our professors who have stayed away from their college environment, their climate, and in very good times, very short, to meet again in these environments. Dear friends, of course, we are faced with an unexpected human disaster. Our universities had to take a break from their education. The summer season, rather, began in the spring, but it was canceled. The universities have been authorized to make amends in the summer months, and there is even an arrangement for making amends in similar situations. The subject of remote education is something we're all curious about. So I was wondering, I took the job seriously, so I thought I'd at least come to you with some information about it. I've called some university rectors, I've contacted SEC officials, senior executives, students, student representatives. I wanted to find out how educational activities continue, what we call remote education. I'd like to share them with you in a nutshell. Actually, it's not a remote education, it's conceptual. Remote education is very different, so in synchronic environments, it's a form of education that talks about learning in mutual, interactive living classes, and it's expressed in different degrees, but what we're talking about here is maybe the right concept for the remote education of universities from the emergency situation, because it's not synchronic, most of them are using electronic environments, digital environments, but it's not the concept of remote education. When we look at this point, we see that, in fact, when this issue comes up, the NGO has set up a commission when education activities are interrupted, and many university professors have been included in this commission, experts on the subject. It's been manipulated by these. Again, before this blackout, before Covid-19, they conducted a project at the University of NGO Anadolu. In this project, remote education has been certified by around 50,000 students from universities in the Southeast and Eastern Anatolian regions, especially under the name of Okumryazarship in the Digital Age, and the professors have been subjected to education for eight weeks. I mean, there's been such a coincidence that in this period, there's really been some serious contributions, benefits. Dear friends, as of now, we have come to understand in this brief interrogation that our professors have made a very serious contribution to education in this digital environment, using their own resources, through the selfless work of their own homes, and that both students and faculty have shown a serious adaptation in this regard. So we asked him, "What percentage of this work has that effect?" In this regard, the Board of Higher Education has launched a survey study this week, and I think they'll have the results next week. So at least in an unexpected situation, I think it's important to express that this study, which we can express as remote education, is truly admirable for our students, our higher education. Dear friends, of course, there are important issues that have been discussed here, discussed in the Commission; there are many things to say, but we want to express our views and opinions about both of them, which our friends have expressed in the Commission. There have been demands, et cetera, but 35 is the age of a professor, even the age of a professor. I mean, as an academic who worked at universities for 30 years, after 35 years, or at 35 years of age, it's not the right approach anyway. Dear friends, perhaps it would be wise to consider a few things on this occasion, and I believe our RCC representative is here. I would especially like to say that the issue of academic incentives should be reviewed because they are suffering from this issue, a very serious preparation needs to be made. So for an almost $300 incentive award, you have to prepare a professorship file, a file filled with folders, which brings a very serious load. So from a practical point of view, it's a loss of incentive, so it's either removed or made more attractive. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, one of the things that is most important here is the issue of discipline. Of course, the issue of discipline will not be regulated in every detail in the law; it will surely be made more concrete with a regulation, and within that concreteity, it will be carried out with judgmental decisions, disciplinary commissions, and so on. But I'd like to put an end to my conversation by bringing one matter to your attention. In particular, the issue of layoffs has been one of the most critical issues in the history of propaganda for terrorist organizations, in association with these organizations. So I'll tell you this right now: for example, if you look at other exports that don't come to work twenty days a year without an apology or permission, you can say a lot of actions or crimes; so, with these, they'll be expelled from the institution, or rather, the organization's propaganda, the terrorist organization's accomplices, will they continue to stay in the university? So I'm making it very clear that this kind of teaching membership is going down the drain. You will act as terrorists, you will promote terrorism, you will work against the state, and you will call it scientific freedom.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0275par0163	Let's move on, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0274par0164	I would like to point out that there is a procedure in particular for disciplinary practices and that such an arrangement is really appropriate by reminding you that the people who were expelled as a result of disciplinary action are subject to judicial control of these exports. The real danger here is that there are terrorist activities in universities, and the real problem is that the disciplinary boards in universities are in the hands of terrorists, occupied by them. I hereby salute you all again.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0275par0167	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Muazzez Orhan Iş... Here you are, Mr. Orhan Light.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0276par0170	I salute the General Assembly and all of our people. We're discussing some of the articles of the SEC Law here, but the SEC Law is a handcuff that the fascist coup on September 12th hit this country's academy. The AKP's government, which is the extension of September 12th, expanded its resources with its legality after its coup attempt as God's grace. The law, aimed at turning the university into a public institution and scientific autonomy into an ally, is even more backward than the coup d'états of September 12th. The education system is exposed to a number of shortcomings, including in the age-appropriate curriculum, missing staff, hygiene. The education system is a ball of problems. Can you answer the question: How many classes are more than 40 students? How efficient is education in 40-person classes? And how will the teachers you provide no guarantees in these classes, contractual and paid, who you pay under the poverty line teach? On behalf of some 10 million disabled people in Turkey and their families, how many schools are accessible and how many sign language teachers or administrators are there? Does a visually impaired person have access to your schools by acting independently? Again, how many rehab teachers were unemployed during the day of the corona about the education of the disabled? In what state of mind will these people whom you have left unsecured, poor, and unemployed continue to serve? Now the schools are closed because of the corona. You make evaluations that are so amazing that you talk as if you don't live in this country, and you talk about how great education is in the virtual environment, how it is, how it's done, how it's done, how it's done, as if there's unlimited internet in every home. I'm afraid neither your ten minutes of lessons nor your infrastructure nor your staff are fit for electronic training. Millions of students and their parents don't even know about your EBA. You're not even aware of the number of students and households without smartphones. The poor you forced to migrate from the region and their villages have no access to your Internet infrastructure or your EBA. In a language you do not want to see elementary school children speak, hundreds of thousands of children in Kurdish are excluded from your school system, and now you will be able to access it in this virtual environment? What language and what phrase? Even if she knew Kurdish, she was forbidden to speak, she spoke, she was banished, she was expelled? You cannot take a positive step in education unless you see the connection between language and education. In particular in the region, in many parts of Turkey, students' parents at many schools are poor, unemployed, and unsecured. Last month, a school in Van Goshen showed that 80 per cent of the students were in the prison of their guardians. This unfair regime, which you manage, victimizes the student, guardian and teacher as a whole. Now, can you understand the students and teachers in these schools? No, because your priority and purpose are neither human life nor education. Your goal is very clear: to build masses that are in line with the market's needs, the ability to think and question. On the one hand, you lend high interest to college students, while you impose an unresolved, unregistered, outdated curriculum on elementary school students under the name of religious education. You've imam-approved all the schools and emptied the imam-haters. You've narrowed down your masculine understanding of social gender roles to pre-school. With every intervention you've done, you've undermined the public, scientific, secular, native language that should be free of charge. It's not religious education, it's religious abuse, where power is highly moistened. If the AKP withdraws its hand from religion and education, the community will also take a comfortable breath. Now, in these pandemic days, you've brought this change without missing an opportunity, without asking the public, regardless of the opinion of civil society and trade unions. You're talking about colleges, but unfortunately, you've cleared them out, too. Look, how many of our colleges are on the world's college list in the first thousand? You've opened private departments, universities to your non-responsors in the international area, you've made them department heads, deans, rectors, but you've made a breakthrough in academic theft, just like the trustees you've appointed to win the will of the people in our municipalities. You've put an assigned ally in charge of every university. Your anti-democracy can't stand the will of the people and the will of science anywhere. At the beginning of the worst evil the AKP has done to this country, universities have been declared unscientific, autonomous. Academic exports have accelerated brain migration, a very serious problem. Look, 5,247 academics were laid off in 117 kilometers of 185 universities as part of KHK exports alone. According to NGO statistics, for the first time in Turkey, the number of teachers has been reduced. The government, proud of opening a university in 81 districts, discharged academics and more than 33,000 teachers with slander, tagging without a verdict. Many non-exported academics have been transformed into paid officers under some kind of pressure and automotive. Everything can be discussed under these conditions, but scientific production and the academy cannot be discussed. Unfortunately, the leadership, autonomy and importance of the world's science that was seen in the days of Coronavirus is not seen by the AKP and the MHP coalition. This amendment also reinforces the absence of this law. Academics are not members of the AKP. Academic activity can't just be carried out within buildings and condemned to a hierarchy. Unfortunately, society pays the bill for your attempt to take advantage of the meaningless teaching of the world's shadow of dogma, racism and nationalism, and to scythe the last bits of academic freedom. In Turkey, the number of university dropouts is now around 500,000. Due to the pressures and economic difficulties you put on the investigative, interrogating, critical free thought, many of the students have to leave their schools. Look, I offered him the law, he's still on the committee. I thought you guys were anti-interest. He says, "Don't take interest from students, don't borrow money from unemployment." The number of students you mortgaged in college, the number of students you mortgaged, the number of students you put in foreclosure is over half a million. You've emptied the education system and the curriculum. The point where you bring down the country and the education system in Turkey by turning education upside down in line with your own political, ideological goals, preventing millions of children and young people from taking advantage of education on equal terms is pathetic. There's no university that gives young people college graduates the skills of the age of IT, language, and communication. What do you think? His followers have a business. The dining halls of the dorms are run by traders who view the well-paid student as a customer. In this country, you've reduced paid education to before school. Parents cut their whole lives short and send their kids to schools, but colleges send home unemployed people with diplomas. The AKP actually works like a machine producing unemployment and poverty. Look, the unemployment rate before you came to power was 8 per cent, the latest annual data was 13.7. In the last 15 years, the number of university unemployed has increased by four times. As a result of your policies, there are now millions of young college students out of work. This amendment will not improve the quality of education in universities, nor will it improve the conditions of scientific autonomy, nor will it reduce harassment, Mobbbing, or even rape attempts at universities.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0277par0184	Let's move on, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0276par0185	The attempted harassment of the person appointed as head of the main science branch of the Faculty of Religious Education at the University of the Hundredth Year is currently on trial. You already know about the rape at Ankara University. Unfortunately, these are the usual consequences of a male system, not the cases you've always expressed. Between yesterday's execution law and the abusers you released, there will be tomorrow's rapists you've encouraged. All your policies, including this amendment, are harmful to public health. The debris you left at the university won't be able to be cleaned up for years, even after you. You've done the worst to this community, silenced science and the academy. We know you won't take the opposition into account again, but when the day comes, society won't consider you either, and those days are very near. If this is how you think it's gonna go, you're wrong, because it's not gonna go away. I salute the board.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0278par0190	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Smyrna MP Mahir Polat. Here you go, Mr. Polat.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0279par0193	Mr. President, Mr. Court, dear MPs of our High Council, I thank you for all the work we've done on these extraordinary days when we've lost all of our people due to the coronavirus, asking for God's mercy and urgent healings for our citizens who continue to be treated in the hospital. I have made a pledge on the Higher Education Law and the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. In line with the growing number of universities in the last term, the event of the Higher Education Control Board has been attributed to a significant increase in workload and its effectiveness has been weakened. If we move from here, yes, with the increase of universities, especially the development of foundation universities, the Board of Control has increased workloads, but with universities that have opened without planning or programming, something has increased more: college students, college graduates, young unemployed. Yeah, there's something else that's weakened its activity, but it's weakened its activity. The fact that our young people, who have been kept away from the production economy, have been held in front of the public gate with their KPSS tests has severely reduced their activity. Turkey has an important opportunity in its region in terms of the young population, with considerable potential. In economic assessments, the young population provides a significant advantage for the economy to jump, while unfortunately, we are wasting that advantage in our country. There's a significant increase in young unemployment because we don't grow our young people with adequate and proper equipment and because we don't bring them into the economy, and it's been observed that we can't use that opportunity to jump in the economy. When we look at the current university list, there are 130 public universities, 73 foundation universities. The proprietary clauses are said to have increased workload due to increased universities, but they have new college demands, new foundation universities are being tried to establish. Here's our warning: we don't want the new foundation colleges to become homes where cults and congregations are organized, like the universities you used to close or transfer to other universities. The universities are institutions that search for truth, produce thought and science, and promote thought and science that they produce, with the highest levels of research and education. As we look at the sources of scientific research, it seems that over the years, these resources have slowly been eroding and diminishing. For example, I say, where are those days when vaccine studies, drug studies, that haunt the world, want to be the son of a country that has successfully ended up in its own country? What do we do in medicine? We've put the cork, the leeches treatment, camel piss, lately. And lastly, Mr. President has offered trellises to protect himself from the coronavirus. Dear friends, the changing, changing education system from the day you arrived has been all the way to colleges. In universities, political positions are not filled with those who have integrity; they are filled with special staffs, not co-friendly, family members and partisans. We've often witnessed that in your time. I'm just going to give you two examples of these, the same university, about Artvin's University of Most. You're opening up a staff of professors in the Property Protection and Security Department. We're looking at what's wanted, whether he has a law degree or a business degree, okay, so far so good -- but you're looking for another feature in the same person, the condition that he also has a body development and a senior coaching certificate. How many people do you think there are in Turkey, and isn't that the delivery staff? You're starting again at the same university for the Master Science of Mentally challengeds, the faculty staff. We're looking, and we think you're looking for a teacher or someone who's trained in this course; you're looking for someone who's a PhD in chemistry, and here's a second-time delivery staff at the same university. Dear friends, I'm afraid you've created the tradition of not electing presidents in our universities today from the day you came to power. For example, when the university appoints a chancellor, the professors choose between them, and you cast out the first or the second. You've never seen this before. You're making political appointments, not based on merit. Unfortunately, you've plugged in our scientists, exposed to embargos, faced sanctions, who are not indifferent to social and political problems, who are conducting research on these issues. Peace academics, for example, were separated from universities, science and students because they didn't think like they were in power, and because they said they didn't think. They've been investigated, expelled. They have not been extradited to their duties, who have been acquitted of the investigations or have been taken into custody. Again, you took away some of the teachers from universities, from science, from their students, under the law. You didn't extradite those of our university professors who were acquitted, who took no notice. I'd like to give you an example of this: the genetics expert, Assoc. Mustafa Türlı, we've often heard of him these days. A friend of ours who spent seven years researching the coronavirus in the U.S. and the Netherlands. After seven years, this friend wants to continue his work in his country and returns to his country. The University of Gaziantep comes to the Department of Genetics of Medical Biology. What do we do with it? On September 1, 2016, we export it under a decree of law. The genetic doctor Mustafa Otalı, who soon decided not to follow, was expected to be reinstated, but you see it as a right not to return to his post, to punish him. In the process, it is not only Mr. Transporter that you punish, but also the Turkish community that needs his scientific savings, the Turkish people. From the early years of your coming to power, you started a popularism with each university without an account, without a plan, without infrastructure. In 18 years, you've doubled the number of universities to three percent, but our number of scientific publications did not go parallel with this. The number of academics per student has fallen, the education environment and the quality of education have declined. Turkey was the 101st among 137 countries from 2017-2018 in the Higher Education Education System Quality Index of the World Economic Forum report. Again, in the mathematics and science training rankings of the same report, we were ranked number 104, falling behind even Ethiopia and Gambiya. In another report, we have no universities between 350 universities in 2019, and we have one in the first 500. However, in 2015, the same report ranked 85th place at the Middle East Technical University, with the first 350 degrees of the University of Bosporus in the first place: İstanbul Technical, Sabancı, Bilkent and Koç University in the first place. As of May 2013, there were 2,776 arrested and convicted students. As of the end of 2016, this has increased 25 stories, has risen to 69,301. But what we don't have is 2019 data because we don't have an answer when we ask the Ministry how many of our students are under arrest. Dear friends, we have to take quick measures to increase the dignity and power of our universities. In this era, if we want to move the Republic of Turkey forward, we have to support individuals who are free-thinking, based on science, technology. Let's not forget that free thinkers, people who think against us, people who have given the world groundbreaking changes, innovations. Once again, let's stop putting our students in prisons because they think they're out of line. Let's improve the quality of our universities. The goal of power is to create a university model that will serve them better and help them achieve their goals. As long as this mentality doesn't change, I'm saying colleges don't become homes of science and education, they become the backyards of power. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0280par0208	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Ardahan MP Orhan Atalay. Here you go, Mr. Atalay.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0281par0211	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I beg the grace of the Lord God of our citizens, who died in the outbreak of Covid-19, and I pray for immediate healing for the sick. Dear friends, today I have made a commitment to a law proposal that includes certain arrangements that our higher education institutions need. I salute you. Of course, when one's greatest value is the mind, it is defined as the most valuable act of human identity and self-doubt that is the purpose of reasoning, and in particular the pursuit of accurate knowledge. When we look at historical processes, the human effort to get the right information has never really been easy. The results have made the lives of the living easier, but the effort for those subjects of that knowledge, who knows how many tragedies, how many tragedies, how many sufferings, has been overcome, because the pursuit of truth, the truth, has required many fundamental sacrifices. Man's free speech of the right information, his defense, his ability to spread it, has often made himself subject to burning alive, hanging from the gallows, rotting in cells, or the least likely assassinations of dignity. When the story of such tragedies opens, the first examples that come to our memory are often expressed in the Western world and inquisitor courts. Unfortunately, we know many of the men of religion, science, thought, art and literature, who have been involved in such tragedies, and we've heard very few of the stories of their language. And in the part where we know nothing or very little about it, who knows what atrocities have been committed? Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have felt the need to make this entrance to: when we look at the history of universities, which are the leading workshops of science and thought, where mankind has benefited from it, we see scientific breakthroughs in different times, different geographys and different cultural climates. Even though there have been different versions and comments in detail, our historians of civilization often describe the times when these great scientific breakthroughs took place as three periods. The first is the ancient Greek era, which covers the 3rd and 4th centuries prior to the year. At this time, Plato began speaking to a group of people in his own land outside Athens (Academia) with talks on philosophy, thought, literature, art, and theology, with names such as Socrates, Aristotle, Plato. The second stage of great scientific breakthroughs is five centuries in the centre of the cities of light, such as Baghdad and Indulus, between the 8th and 13th centuries after the millennium. The ages of geniuses such as Kindi, Farabi, Ibn Sina, Gazali, Ibn Rusd belong to this period. Its third breakthrough period has been carried out by the West for the past three centuries. As we all know, from the end of the 12th century in the West, the university process, which began with the University of Paris and continued with Oxford, did not survive the extreme pressure of the church, especially Aristotle and his Muslim poets, and in those courts, the benchings at the University of Paris, the most vivid representatives of independent science and thought, were broken. Then the Dark Ages began. Western science had to wait six centuries for freedom of thought and faith, and a very painful, bloody period of tragedy. What made science, thought, art, literature, even theology, the great breakthroughs of the university, different from the others? When we ask such a question, the answer is nothing more than the impossible. It's the basic potion that creates civilizations. Without that potion, civilization doesn't appear. For example, the period that came to mind when it was called Greek civilization was the 3rd and 4th centuries prior to the age. What is left of Greece when we bring out Plato, Socrates, Aristotle, Plato? Of course, we can say the same thing about Islamic civilization; what names can we boast about when we bring out Ibn Rusd, Farabi, Kindi, Gazali, and Gazali? It's possible to talk about the same thing for Western civilization and other civilizations. So without opportunity, there's no improvement, civilization doesn't come out without possibility. We understand that the way to contribute to civilization and humanity depends on the maximum use of human capacity. He must be given the opportunity to do so. The possibility is freedom, the opportunity is primarily autonomy, the opportunity is primarily to contribute financially and to provide for the material needs of our universities. Of course, the greatest possibility for man is his freedom. Because freedom is the most fundamental, structural element that makes up our human identity. Without that element, human beings can't even be defined. Without freedom, we can't talk about words and concepts like progress, development, efficiency. Therefore, it is no coincidence that throughout history, the vast majority of the great inventors have appeared in free societies. And He will give birth to other means. Today, any opportunity that makes life easier for mankind is the consequences of that great opportunity. Well, then, come on, we'll expand our universities in any way possible. This offer, basically, has a purpose: let's give our universities the opportunity, let's expand their resources. Mr. President, when we looked at ourselves as of the Republic, we had an Ottoman university called Darulfunun, which was founded in 1863; the University of Istanbul was shut down in 1933 under university reform; it was founded. By the time we arrived in 1982, we had 19 universities, and by the time we reached 2006, our number of universities remained as high as we could possibly hope for, only 51. Today we have 207 universities. Some of the orators who have come up here have started so many universities, and they object as to what happened? Guys, we don't have a lot of colleges. The number of universities in India begins at 8,000, starting at 5,000 of America; in Argentina, in Indonesia, in thousands. Near us, there are more than 350 universities in Iran, which have as many populations as we do.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0282par0218	Quality... quality...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0281par0219	Quality, quantity, then quality, my precious Regent. Nowhere can you expect quality quality in the morning at the university you set up in the evening. So we're going to be patient, we're going to expand our resources, we're going to increase the number of our universities within a plan, of course, but we're going to do everything we can together to deepen its quality and quality. My heart yearns that if this great Assembly had made a civil constitution that this community needed, but I have the same desire that the same Parliament, with the same will, would have made a new law worthy of the CEC. This proposal may have been rushed by the Constitutional Court's decision, but there is more to be done for our universities.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0283par0222	Let's move on, please.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0281par0223	I salute your preparedness.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0283par0225	The first word on behalf of its people belongs to İstanbul MP Nazır Jahangir Islam. Here they come, Mr. Islam.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0284par0228	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, I just read a story in the media. President of presidential Communications, Fahrettin Altun is making an illegal building on the land he rented from the foundation, and İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality is destroying it, but the main issue is that İstanbul Public Prosecutor's Office is investigating terrorism in the media organs doing this with photographs. Here are the first fruits of yesterday's law, my dear friends. Now, my dear congressman friend just mentioned the academia, yes, Plato's academia, perhaps the first university on earth can be accepted. What happened to academia? The Roman Dictator Sulla destroyed the city of Acacademia in 86. But the main issue was that Roman Emperor Jostinyanus had shut down the academia in 529, which is very interesting, he said: "Now that we have reached the truth with the Bible, we do not need to produce any more information or anything like that. This is an understanding. Now, a relationship with truth is a constant relationship. Unfortunately, if we could talk about this one day here in detail and discuss it, we've had a very serious impact on our cultural development when the door closes. My dear friends, look, the measure of a civilization is this... which is why it's so important to have what we call an event called Endulus, and that's why it's been able to grow the non-Muslim Maimonides in its own way, so it's been able to create this freedom environment, and that's the main event in education and human development. Now, maybe a little bit out of context, but I'll leave this note, and maybe we'll argue in the future: it took us ten years to discuss secularism, but when we look at the history of the West, we see that it's the institutional church that holds both political power and the monopoly of knowledge, but when we look at our history, it's the political powers that hold the information monopoly, especially because we don't have any institutional religious structure. That's why we can achieve the achievements of the West with democracy and secularism, perhaps by removing the political power, the despot political powers, and building a real democracy here. A dear congressman friend of mine told me about peace academics. Friends, first of all, Fascism isn't just an obstruction of expression. Fascism is forcing me or anyone else to respond. I mean, I got kicked out. Why did I get kicked out? I got kicked out because of the second notice. Signed 611, I was dismissed for the second declaration of freedom of expression. I said, this is freedom of expression. The Constitutional Court approved me, but after two years and seven months, we still haven't received any response from the State of Emergency Commission. I would like to say that this law, in particular the 7th article, will make such practices really easy. Let's take a look at item 7 and the general tone of this offer. The penal norms need to be defined in a concrete way, so you can't leave it open with abstract definitions; it's an obvious definition; the crime you refer to the judge's interpretation will not be left to the judge's interpretation, or the judge's interpretation of the case; and when you do that, you also hand over to that judge the authority to make law.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0285par0236	Let's move on.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0284par0237	And it's especially important: since these definitions were not made clear -- we've also experienced this in the investigations of the State of Emergency -- they've been compared in criminal law. Well, my fellow lawyers know better than I do what a disaster this is. Allegedly disrespecting his superior during his duties... friends, dear friends, the problem in Turkey today -- if I look at social media, I'll download ten clips to you right now -- is usually the insults and disrespect of the rectors to their subordinates. What do we do with this? My dear congressman friend told me about this, there's no countermeasure in this law to prevent a mobbingi. Mobbbing, bad behavior, bad example, done down by the strong. So it has to be written here very clearly what disrespect, or rather, the disrespect of employees, means to each other. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do I have a moment, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0286par0241	Yes, sir, please.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0284par0242	I'd like to wrap it up right away, so I'm sorry, but maybe I've extended it a little bit. Dear friends, moral and immoral behavior... see, this is a delicate matter. Earlier, this country had a lot of trouble just because of the disguise, and as a country, we lost a very serious time, and we don't want it to happen the other way around. Let people live freely as they believe or as they don't believe, and let them go on with their lives, their education. The matter of a disaffected report is an important issue. If I had said what I said about Ben Covid in college last time, you'd have thrown me out again. That's the only thing I've expressed for the immunity of this bench. After all, the best thing to do here is to eliminate the CEC Law. My respects to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0287par0247	On behalf of the individuals, it is up to Mr. Orhan Erdem. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0288par0249	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, first of all, I salute you all. Today, I pray to God for the mercy of our fellow citizens who died from the coronavirus -- we have a global problem -- my condolences to their relatives, my condolences to our patients. As soon as we get out of these troubled days, we pray. I have made a pledge on behalf of myself regarding the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Changes in Some Laws. We've heard a lot of conversations. On the commission, we had friends who used their expressions. Yes, he needed to come because 2 articles made it necessary to bring the priority of this law to the House. First, the 7th article concerning certain disciplinary provisions that the Constitutional Court has cancelled. Within nine months of the fourth month's decision, this substance was asked to be rearranged and was delayed. And one of the most important things, I think, is that in the 24th article, the National Ministry of Education, during the summer period, during the holidays, hopefully, when we get out of these difficulties, it allows us to plan education and to teach compensation in the summer. Above all, in times of distress, we have passed health - related laws. We worked until yesterday morning, we made laws against inmates in prisons, and we organized a lot of areas that were facing economics with the bag of laws. I also think it's a meaningful duty for the entire Parliament to take matters of national education, higher education and education first in the process. In this regard, I thank our governments who have served the national education with all their strength since 2002. Because we're talking about 26 million young people in 18 million secondary schools and primary schools, 8 million in higher education, and we're talking about our future. With the largest budget each year, we have reached a certain point in this area, with both the classroom numbers and the universities that are opened, with many services that we can count. It is for him that today many countries around the world have already stopped studying with curfews or partial bans, and while we are waiting for nothing to happen, we are able to do at least one support training with our infrastructure, both in higher education and secondary education. It's a support training, as I said, and then it'll be strengthened by makeup training. In the meantime, all universities have been able to prepare and manage their own education system with comforting decisions that will pave the way for our universities. I know my own scholars, I know theirs. When we talk to our presidents, we see that they're all going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, and on and Hopefully, after he's been through this ordeal, he's planning exams and visas behind him. In short, we did a fine work in the Commission on the new proposal that brought change to this Higher Education Law -- most of which we saw fit. I hope we can all make that law together today.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0289par0256	Let's move on.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0288par0257	As I end my words -- as our Deputy Orhan Atalay said -- hopefully, we'll work on a more inclusive SEC law and a constitutional amendment that can solve the problems of the foundation universities and their problems -- who wants to stay as a university, who wants to be a private university -- we'll plan it as a whole group, and we'll make a good point. I congratulate all those who have worked hard for the work, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0289par0260	Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. Mr. Aycan, one moment from your position, please.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0290par0265	Mr. President, college is the center of education, research and practice; it's not just a teaching place; it's different from high school. The power of the university is measured by its publication and its reference to its publications. It is not possible to say that the universities in Turkey are much more successful in this regard. Unfortunately, we don't have a university that entered the first 500. There's no point in opening a school for him in any way. There should be universities here that can make academic careers, develop capable faculty, and create the basis for their scientific work. There's no use opening a university of applied sciences to counties. There is no need to deceive anyone; there is no way that young people from the schools here can have a profession. It's impossible to raise a profession with just a few prose lessons. Schools without apps should be filled with children for no reason.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0289par0269	Congressmans, there are 3 motions on Article 1. The first two motions I'm going to read are the same, so I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1 of the Law Proposal 212 be removed from the proposal. Muazzez Orhan Ikım Ömer Ocalan Zuleyha Gülim Tuma Steel Tulay Hatimlari Oruç Huda Kaya The signatures of the other motion are: Yıldırım Kaya Kayal Özdemir Ahmet Akin Turan Aydoğan Fikret Şahin Tekin Bingöl == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Süleyman Gülbül Abdurrahman Tutdere Burhanettin Bulut Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Hüda Kaya, the Istanbul MP who asked for a word on the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0291par0290	Mr. President, Congressman, I'm in interesting psychology, of course. In the 18th year of AKP's rule, we have come to the time when the AKP was turned into an instrument of a system that was far more severe, far more incoherent, inadmissible, than in the institutional state of coup, in the 18th year of the AKP. I wish we'd never seen it today. We have come to act in the White Sea Square, and we have to speak against AKP, that the universities should not be shut down. What kind of country, what kind of Turkey, what kind of ideal, where from? Yes, what we shouldn't have turned, what we should have insisted on, what we should have been in the direction, was conscience, morality, justice, humanity. Otherwise, once we have power and power, only those of us have the right to speak. Now only those of us have the right to live, to work, to have a profession. Such an argument, such a principle, such a conscience, cannot exist. So, once again, we have to remind you of that in every problem law proposal you bring back. Hold the mirror once more, hold on to it, take a look at it; what did you claim yesterday, where did you come today? You're about to close the colleges today. Yesterday our headscarf girls were getting kicked out of college, and today you're shutting down colleges. You criticised me, we'll deal with the attacks. You said, "Now you have blessed the coup institutions, you've crowned your head, you've become helpless with the coup institutions." Is that how the AKP was going to live? Are you trying to extend AKP's life and power by sticking your back to coup institutions, by entering dirty alliances, by holding your back on the structures you criticize? On the one hand, the word "terrorism" is now in tongues, in mouths -- excuse me -- has changed! What's that, what's that expression? Even when you say that, you have to be a little human, a little conscientious, a little moral. He was a terrorist who criticised the state, sir, and the government's well-winners were terrorists. I'm sorry if you're doing wrong, if you're in power, if you're a party, if you've got a policy claim, you'll be criticized, you won't get a verse. We'll follow your steps, we'll answer, we'll criticize, we'll question. No one is critical, no one is blessed, your institutions are not sacred, your words are sacred, your leaders are sacred. You'll be questioned today, and tomorrow you'll have to answer for what you've done. You won't even want to be judged tomorrow with this unsubstantiated, illegal, corrupt system you've set up today. Don't impose today what you don't want to happen to you, what you don't want to happen to you. You have children, you go to universities, are you very pleased with Turkey's education system? You have cast out many qualified scientists with the KHK, who have thought, asked, questioned, and questioned.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0292par0294	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0291par0295	Thank you, Mr. President. Scientists who gave the university qualifications, teaching, teaching, thinking, questioning, the view of life, are either abroad, or in prison, or in the market. Scientists became marketers in AKP rule. In AKP power, teachers collect garbage, there are teachers who collect paper right now. Is that your quality in education? Is this the level where you fly Turkey, the modernity, the development, the leap over the ages? The reflection in society is very different. Earth, Turkey is not just your mind, there is no Turkey that you look at through the windows of palaces, glass mansions. Reality is different, what happens on the streets of Turkey is very different. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0293par0300	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0294par0301	Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0293par0302	I'll put it on the record. The EC PARTI is not presenting reforms with an understanding that blesses the impact situation, but with an understanding that singlely purges the coup and coup institutions. The democratic judiciary is part of our reform process. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0295par0305	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0296par0306	For the record, the PLO is one of them.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0295par0307	Mr. Burhanettin Bulut, the Adana MP who wanted to speak on the same motions. Here you go, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0297par0309	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today we're going to add the substance of violence in health to the inside of the law proposal for higher education. That's important because on these extraordinary days, we're going to offer a bill to the medics that we all applaud at nine o'clock at night, to give them a boost, and on the other hand, all the MPs, all the parties, will sign under it. It's very valuable because it's been debated for a long time, and for many years, violence in health has been on the agenda of public opinion, but unfortunately, there's no law of violence in a health that embraces everyone. In the last year of November 2018, there was a substance of violence, a substance in the bag, but since there was only one offer, unfortunately, it wasn't at the desired level. Why is this important? It's not just because it's the importance of healthcare workers in the extraordinary period, it's important for the social structure, it's important for this democracy, it's important for the state structure because there are some elements that fuse democracy, which make the state a state, the community. We call these basics. These are the foundations that sustain the state. What is it? Here's what we're discussing today: education, law, safety and health. When you make them a trust in the commonwealth, society becomes tighter, more confident. That's why we need to maintain the reputation of the employees of these professions. And we need to do that not only because we care about them, but because we care about the whole community, the whole state structure, because it's constitutionally the right to a citizen. If you have established a state and have protected your citizens, you must also protect their health, their law, their education, and their safety. So, what's the cause of the debate in health, the increase in violence? Unfortunately, the number of violence in health began in 2003, starting with a transformation in health, as soon as it allowed physicians -- unaware or unaware -- to lose face in a constant debate, and on top of that, with performance study, to put the physician in that performance, and customerize the patient, began to increase in health. It was included in the full-day law, and the public began to move further away from the reach of health within its privileges, which we were just talking about, and it began to fall further back than the quality of the situation, and at the point where the trust was reduced, people began to resort to violence. Of course, it's not that easy to change, of course it depends on the state's treasury, but we can maintain their reputation for the social structure I was just talking about. This is the most important aspect of the law of violence that we hope for today, that we think, that all parties will sign. Of course, one of the main reasons why the law of violence was not effective in health in November 2018 is that not everyone in the health field was taken into that scope. One of the most controversial professions today is pharmacists. Almost all speakers referred to a mask, even though it was on different subjects from yesterday. Unfortunately, in the early days, the mask brought the pharmacist and the citizen face to face with the latest decision. Remember, the President said the mask will be sold for free from now on. The next day, people couldn't reach the mask. The store said that public transportation should wear masks, but it was unreachable. Here, the pharmacist was always discussed; finally, the pharmacist's position came to the heart of the debate about this virus as well as the structure. When we look at it digitally today, the pharmacists, along with about 100,000 pharmacists and their employees in their own capacity, were the second place in the threat of the coronavirus after the hospital, and as we look at the numbers now, I told them that three pharmacists died two days ago; and I told them today that number was up to 5 pharmacists, 20 pharmacists were infected with the virus; that number increased to 30.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0298par0313	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0297par0314	The number of employees is increasing the same way. Our demand, as our party and as the expectation of society, is that, with the signatures of all parties, all healthcare laws be passed and health workers -- none of them are discriminated against here. It's important that the physician, the pharmacist, the nurse, all the health workers, be taken inside this umbrella of protection. Thank you all very much. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0299par0318	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the amendment of the higher education law and the amendment of the law shall be changed in the form of subjugation of the terms referred to in Article 1 of the Law Proposal. Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu Orhan Çakır Arslan Kabukcuoğlu Ayhan Altıntaş Enez Kaplan Fahrettin Yoyş Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Ankara MP Ayhan Altıntaş wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Goldstone.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0300par0331	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I ask God's mercy and immediate healing for our citizens who died of the Chinese-based corona virus. I have been promised to address Article 1 of the law offering to change the law. I salute the High Council. There's no objection to this clause, but I'd like to talk about college in general. Let's start with the question: What's the hardest question in college management? I think it's the evaluation of the teachers, and only the other teachers do it. You can't tell just by looking at the file or just by a qualitative assessment. It must have been wrong of the professorship to just look at the file. I've seen a lot of candidates who don't know what they're doing on their oral exam. Therefore, it is necessary for the YOK to take the lead in this matter. I also want to talk about other things. Why are our good universities so few? Why are our international achievements limited? Why are we trying to keep everything under control, so we're going with restraint? If you push the wall with your hand, you can't move the wall, but you get tired. In thermodynamics, this has increased in entropy. It's called entropy. You spend energy, but you can't do business. If you make the wall thicker and stronger, you'll get more tired, but you can't do business. That's what it's like to look at the inputs. It's not the inputs that need to be evaluated, it's the output. The right-to-know wrongs about universities: 1) If the teacher and students are large, the university is good. It's wrong because these numbers are in, not out. Here's Harvard University. But in good universities, grad students are relatively large, and it's important to get a lot of high-quality Ph.D.s. 2) Let's open up the university, and then it'll develop. It could be wrong; it could be wrong to button the first button of the shirt. 3) If the university is named after a famous person, the university will be fine. Wrong. We've got a lot of scared friends who call names heroic. 4) If the Chancellor obeys us, the university will be fine. It's so wrong. Look, Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror and Aksemseddin. 5) Let's give the government's land to friends so they can start a nice college. Wrong. No good comes from college for those of you who don't know how to do college. 6) Money makes a good college. It could be wrong; no scientific climate, no money. Look, the University of Arabia. 7) With less money, it's a good college. Wrong. We don't have a Harvard budget of 129 colleges in 2020. Payments, however, are covered by electricity, water, and cleaning. 8) Anyone can run the university. It's so wrong. Look, it's the University of Anatolia. 9) The culture of freedom and objection corrupts universities. It's so wrong. Look, Middle East Technical University. China also has Beijing University; U.S. University of California, Berkeley. 10) The more we audit the universities, the more successful they become. It's got to be controlled, but without strangulation. 11) In universities, teachers teach all day long. Wrong; research has come forward for nearly two hundred years. 12) Is it rude to teach all day? No. On the contrary, education for the needs of the industry is vital. Let's take a look at the last two items. The universities were assigned to distribute the knowledge that existed at the beginning. What things? Religion, law, philosophy, medicine, mathematics, astronomy. In the 1800s, Wilhelm von Humboldt came up with a new approach: let the universities distribute the existing information, train the people; yes, but let them produce new information; let them study it, research it. So let them create additional value. It wasn't the Germans who first applied it, it was the Americans. They were newly established universities in America, especially Johns Hopkins. Humboldt was named after the University of Berlin. Colleges that study and study can be called second-generation universities. That's the best colleges in the world today. Aren't there only institutes of higher education? There is. Colleges in the United States, colleges and universities of applied sciences; they are also very needed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0301par0353	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0300par0354	Notice that if there is no research, the word "universite" is not often used. The world now talks about third-generation universities; university-industrial cooperation, enterprise, innovation, even fourth-generation universities speak, not to create value, but to create ecosystems to create value. What's the first topic of your college preference? The answer is simple: job opportunity after graduation. In six months after graduation, the university, which has not been able to find more than 90 per cent of its graduates, is not much of a choice. We don't have that kind of statistics, but the students and parents really care about the possibility of employment. So soon a lot of foundations won't be able to find college students. That's why the SEC wants a 2% guarantee a year. Is that enough money? With 2% per year, it will take 50 years to keep the last university to survive for a year.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0301par0357	Let's wrap it up, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0300par0358	In fact, it's going to take four years to keep the students alive until they graduate, but let's say it's still a year, if the university's in trouble before 50 years, it's almost impossible to keep them alive for a year. Then why is it that more than 2 percent a year, for example, not 5%? Because the foundation universities can't find students, most of them are in financial trouble, and this year they're going to have a lot of trouble, and they're not going to be able to give any more. If he can't find a student and his activities end, who will pay the price? Of course they're gonna pin it on the government. That's why they don't give a shit about opening a foundation college. Even the president complained, but not only does he complain, but he tells people around him, doesn't get him to open a new university. I'll leave it here for now and pay my respects to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0302par0362	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, there are 2 motions on Article 2 that I will proceed with these motions in the same manner. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "seventh place " in Article 2 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws and 212 of Higher Education Laws shall be changed into "sevent. " Yıldırım Kaya Abdurrahman Tutdere Sibel Özdemir Suleiman Nightingale Fikret Şahin Turan Aydoğan Alpay Antmen Tekin Bingöl Ahmet Akin Serkan Topal Mahir Polat Ali Fazil Butcher The signatures of the other motion are: Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu Orhan Çakır Zeki Hakan Sıdlı Fahrettin Yoshş Arslan Shellcucuoğlu Enez Kaplan Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. The Kütahya MP Ali Fazil Butcher who wants to speak on the same motions. Here you go, Mr. Butcher.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0303par0385	Mr. President, my fellow public defenders, I salute you all. To those who died in the name of Coronavirus, I wish mercy to all our citizens, who are now sick, who are carriers, and to all the people of the world, an urgent cure. It's common for professors to see their own information on the screen here, and I'm not going to go into it too much. Instead, we should have come here with a law proposal that talks about tradesmen, barbers, hairdressers, diners, mine workers, factory workers; I wish we hadn't come to the boss with incentives, one percent of the VAT. Look, dear friends, valued lawmakers declared the State of Emergency in Italy on January 31st, January 31st. Us? On February 27th, Smurf Payzin entered Turkey from Italy. The Minister of Health's statement was: "We didn't bother to see you well. Our doors were wide open; we were late. And then we were late again, and a lot of things happened. As you know, Mr. President, the sale of the mask was strictly prohibited. There's a statement from Mr. President that, under his instructions, the mask would be distributed free of charge between the ages of 20 and 65. Of course, while you were trying to do this, you stopped the municipalities from helping. You prevented a donation to a soup kitchen, the city of Woodpazarı, Eskişehir. You got in the way of help. Of course, you couldn't break the mask. How could you not? Look, 14 PTT cargo guys in a city of 250,000 people are thinking black and blue. It's from the e-state. You enter the e-state -- there's 49 million people with e-digits, most of them can't -- look, I'll show you that, nine days ago, I entered the e-state myself. The mask hasn't reached me yet, so I'm guessing it'll arrive after the corona outbreak is over. Look, here's the three-story mask, the five-piece, the simple mask you've seen, very simple.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0304par0391	They know you're a congressman, so you can get masks from here...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0303par0392	I asked for it on behalf of myself and my family. They give it to MPs here, but they can't. How would you distribute it with 14 people, with PTT cargo? No way. Yeah, it's not that hard. Look, guys, T.C. from a pharmacy. You can buy as many masks as you want, just like the ID number and the SGK -- just as the drug is billed in the SGK. In this day and age, this mask has to fall off, so there's no need for this mask. Two little masks. You couldn't pull off this mask, so you fill the agenda with this mask. It's being distributed for free. You said, the governorships are now paying for it. Antalya for 0.85 cents...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0305par0395	The government steals each other's masks.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0303par0396	No. You're selling the mask to the workers, the poor workers, for 0.95 cents.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0306par0397	Other states steal each other's masks, make bandits.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0303par0398	Kütahya Governorate is selling.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0307par0399	The pirate steals the mask with the operation.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0303par0400	No, no! You've taken Tiye, our former MP Gaye Haným, who suggested that she be given from the pharmacy. First you took a hint, then you took it.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0307par0402	We give a mask to England.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0303par0403	You couldn't even deliver free masks. Nine days later, the mask didn't show, the mask. 50 workers...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0307par0404	Don't make it simple.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0303par0405	Look, you...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0308par0406	Why couldn't England make the mask then, so simple?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0303par0407	Look, guys, we brought in the law of violence in health in 2018...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0308par0408	Why do they want us?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0303par0409	It smells like rhya in here, so you can talk when the time comes. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0309par0411	Don't abuse this country these days when the whole world respects it.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0303par0412	I'm not being mean, I'm showing you the way, I'm saying: "Come in, give me the mask in the pharmacy."
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0309par0413	They are.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0310par0414	They do.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0303par0415	They don't. You can't go to the market without a mask anywhere in Turkey right now, you can't go to the market without a mask, you can't buy the mask.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0311par0417	Mr. Butcher...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0312par0418	Why? Because it's free.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0303par0419	No. You can't get it, you can't get it, you can't get it.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0311par0420	Mr. Butcher, we'd like to address the General Assembly, please.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0303par0421	That's all you can afford, my dear friends. But this neighborhood is unhappy, Turkey is unhappy.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0313par0422	You're giving false information.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0314par0423	You're misinformation.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0315par0424	You're misinformation. You're the one who's unhappy.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0316par0425	Gaza cries, Gaza dies, you don't exist. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0317par0427	That's not true.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0316par0428	Who can't give his own citizen a mask...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0318par0429	Don't give false information from people's podiums.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0316par0430	I'm not giving false information, I'm transmitting real information.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0319par0432	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0316par0433	You only make one place happy.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0320par0434	There's no shortage of masks in Turkey.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0316par0435	Someone's crying, someone's dying. Did Gaza get help? Just tell me that. You can't give Turkey a mask, so come on. Come on, let's help the workers, let's do the tradesmen. The shopkeeper can't get a loan today. You're just so-called, so-called... great at increasing the pandemic. You can't keep people in the house. Today the miners are coronavirused, positive; today the medics... my two colleagues are dead, the doctor is dead.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0321par0436	Free, free...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0316par0437	The mask isn't free.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0321par0438	It's only free on Earth in this country.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0316par0439	The mask isn't free, you can't give it to me! 0.90 cents, 0.90 cents...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0322par0440	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0321par0441	The mask is free in this country.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0322par0442	Mr. Butcher, thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0323par0443	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0321par0445	The mask is free, the cure is free.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0323par0446	It's not free.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0324par0447	All health care is free.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0325par0448	It's false information.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0326par0449	Mersin MP Zeki Hakan Sıdalı asking for a word on the same proposal. Here you go, Mr. Goody.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0327par0452	Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are as rich as the values they produce and create. As universities create these values, they create worldview and cultural savings for both their academics and their graduates; they also provide professional knowledge and skill. We're in the age of technology. Colleges' responsibilities have increased more than ever. Turkey's higher education is also required to prepare society's future for tomorrow's world with a building vision and a mission. The basis for this preparation should be academic freedom, institutional autonomy and the desire to produce scientific information. As far as we can do these things, our international reputation increases, we can gain a respectable position in the world of science. We all know that, but what do we do? First, we need to question what we expect from higher education. Just let the student go to college, not be unemployed. Is that what you want? You want students to bring money to the neighborhood, not science, by opening a university in a city? You don't understand tourism, you understand higher education? Student client? The goal should be to raise the quality and intellectual manpower that our country needs with higher education, to strengthen the RD, to produce information, to offer them to the public. Therefore, to ensure the sustainability of development, not for show, we have to build a higher education that creates quality opportunity equality and enhances efficiency. When we look at the 18 years of higher education card of power, our first assessment is that Turkey faces an academic devaluation. Like our money, our education is going down. It's true you've given the Turkish Academy quantitative growth. 130 new universities have opened in your power, the number of professors and professors has increased by threefold, the number of college students has increased exponentially, but it's obvious that there's a qualitative collapse, because you're constantly increasing those numbers by lending them both licenses and merits. I'm afraid our young people are paying the price for all the compromises you've made. Turkey is rapidly on its way to the creation of its lost generation. Congressmans, developing higher education is not building high and broad buildings. Colleges are built with more minds, science and vision than sand, iron, cement. To be able to fill those buildings with qualified professors and researchers; to prepare students for life and the business world by providing them with worldview and professional skills; to provide critical thinking, communication, cooperation, creativity; to have the flexibility to properly edit relationships between graduation and employment; to adapt to changing world demands; to have the Turkish academy take steps. If it's perception and vanity, you're there in quantity; invention, reference, discovery, patent, you're not there in quality; and when it comes to improving the quality of education, you're not there. You force many of our young people abroad to study, including your own children. In fact, your job should be to create universities of quality that you can make your own children to study freely; just as we can read, our children should have that opportunity. Congressmans, our number of college students is 7 million. With all due respect, that's nothing to brag about. It's not something to brag about every year when half a million students are graduating from colleges and joining the unemployed caravan, when we don't have an economy that can create jobs for so many college graduates. We need to raise a qualified human resource and intermediary in areas that the business community demands. In fact, you don't do it when it's so easy to plan in the age of technology.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0328par0459	Complete.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0327par0460	I'm picking it up. We need vision and planning that is moving, knowing that the economy will improve as much as you've raised the standards of education, but you've failed both so far, and you're not going to succeed with those policies. The powerful, cultural, scientific and intellectual academy had no problem producing values in the past, needed to produce more, but in your time, there was also a problem not being managed. So we need a management structure that can make sense of information and use it in a positive direction. You can't get the right result by making the same mistakes in science. The correct result is not by changes in laws, but by change of mind. Let's all plan a change of academic mentality. I'll say, "No, we know everything." I salute our High Council.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0329par0465	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on the third article. I'll read it and process it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 3 of the Law Proposal 212 be removed from the proposal. Muazzez Orhan Light Zuleyha Gülim Tuma Steel Omer Ocalan Tulay Hatimlari Orç Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mardin MP Tuma Çelik to discuss the motion. Here they are, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0330par0479	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are a product of the coup on September 12 in Turkey, an institution that is even more oppressive after the July 15 attempt. I don't want to say anything more about this because a lot of friends have said different things, but we also have to say that the attitude towards the hundred-white peace academics of this country has taken the academy back for years. As a result, many of our academics had to be scattered around the world. Your attitude will never be forgotten. Remember, filling the academy with those who swore allegiance, I did it. I want to move on to something else. Dear MPs, the right to education and teaching is one of the most basic rights of citizens. It is also guaranteed by the constitution and international agreements. However, for 90 years the Suryans faced rights violations. As you know, the Republic of Turkey signed an international contract in 1923, the Treaty of Lausanne. The rights of Turkey's differences between the 37th and 44th Articles of this treaty have been arranged. The 41st article states that the Turkish government should show its children in the cities and districts where non-Muslim citizens live in a significant degree of public education in the primary language. Yes, despite the clear judgment of Lausanne, the Suryanites were not given the opportunity to train in their native language. Even worse, the Suryani schools, the last schools in Mardin and Diyarbakır have been closed by the state in 1928. We all know what happened next. Tens of thousands of Suryani in Turkey were forced to emigrate due to pressure, but they continued to fight for rights in Turkey in every environment. As a result, Ankara 13. The Governing Court recognized the existence of Lauzan (Lozan) and approved that the Suryans open schools, but this time their rights were eliminated because of the conditions in which the Suryanians were present. You know, education is expensive, and neither the Surarans nor other minorities contribute to education in their native language. Thus, it violates both human rights and international treaties and its own law. Undiscriminately, all the rulings that have ever taken place have taken all costs to teach Turkish children in Batman, Mardin, Şırnak, Şırnak, Cizre, Idilin, Midyat, Nusaybinin, Dargeçit, Gercush, Savurun, Yeşliyani, any children who did not know a word of English in the village of Süryani, Turkey, but did not allow the Suryan to study in their own native language. Whereas the material I read upstairs is clear. The government is obliged to open and live the schools that teach Syrianic education in the majority of the srpians. Now, look, I am a Suryani, a citizen of the Republic of Turkey. I fulfill all the obligations the government demands of me, I pay my taxes, but the government doesn't fulfill its obligations to me. For example, there's a budget for imam-gathering schools from taxes paid by us, the minorities. The Ministry of Religious Affairs makes its own budget with our taxes. But my school, my church, my religious man, in no way benefits from the taxes I pay. We think it's unfair, and it needs to stop right now. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] President, I need two more seconds.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0331par0486	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0330par0487	I repeat, this is an injustice to us, and it must be ended at once. For this, the Suryani and other minorities need to be able to train in villages, neighborhoods and districts with the resources of the state in their native language. Dear friends, we don't ask anyone to treat us differently, provide us with privileges, and we don't expect them to. We demand our basic human rights under equal citizenship law, in international contracts and in the Constitution. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0332par0491	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and introduce the addition of the declaration of ALES (also referred to before the article 3) of the Law Proposal on the amendment to some Laws under the 212 ranked higher education Act. Yıldırım Kaya Sibel Özdemir Emine Gülizar Emecan Suleiman Nightingale Kamil Okyay Take Out Utku Cakirözer Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Now to discuss the motion, Mr. Utku Çakırözer of Eskişehir MP. Here they are, Mr. Cacharouser.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0333par0504	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our High Council. During this period of Turkey's corona epidemic, we expected to find a cure for student loans, student loans. Inside the package are foundation universities, there are tens of thousands of students who study there, they started a campaign, we can't pay in installments with our lives, they say. Because most of them worked and studied, lost their jobs during the epidemic. We'd expect that in this package, they'd be able to pay them off without interest, delay their payments to the end of the plague, none of them. In this package, we would expect support for dozens of young people whose loans have been cut because they're holding a press conference to draw attention to students who commit suicide because they can't get by, and that's not there. At jet speed, this package, free thought and scientific environment, has brought new pressure to the universities, nothing but new liquidation. The future of our precious academics, whose measurements we have raised with great resources, for propaganda, who are not yet sure how to measure them, will be destroyed in a pen. It's impossible to accept. Turkey's progress is with reason and science, and its path is free thinking, democratic debate environment. My dear friends, there have been hundreds of professors expelled from universities for signing a statement, unfairly tried, even arrested. But, you know, the Constitutional Court has determined that all of this is illegal. Now it is clear that the way for these academics to return to their universities must be opened. We also have academics who have been expelled from KHK, but the courts find them not guilty. We see that they were sent to colleges far away, not to their own universities, with another victim. These sacrifices must be removed immediately. Instead of bringing new exports into the nation's Parliament, the SEC must first address these injustices, injustices, and injustices. My dear friends, the apparent purpose of the package is to tidy up the foundation colleges. Yeah, well, there are a few of them that we all know as private colleges that make us proud, but most of them are out of control and out of profit, going after their students, handing out diplomas with money. Of course, we need to get these things cleaned up, but we have doubts if that's really what this law is really about. What brings you here in such a hurry today in the middle of an epidemic? Mr. Omar Dinçer, who made the most effective ministries of your government out of you, gives the answer. You know, Istanbul City University has been transferred to the University of Marmara. Omar Dinçer says that they were supposed to return it two years later, and now they're going to close it with this law. Every joke in the regulation describes what to do step by step about City University. You know, the City University and its founding foundation, the Foundation for Science and Art, have debts, corruption. But look, the chairman of the university's board, Dinçer, says it's not about debt. Why is there no investigation if there is corruption? Yes, I will repeat: If there is corruption, if there is corruption, where is the IRCU? Where are the prosecutors? Why isn't there an investigation? The matter of City University is clearly political. Here's Dinçer again explaining that two years ago Mr. Erdogan announced that he would be appointed trustee. I ask my dear friends, would an academy be shut down for the sake of political struggle? Would a science den be shut down? If I asked how many of you in this room, how many of you have studied or studied at City University? It says: "He has not paid his debt. How many laws have been passed in this assembly, how many bags have been made, and who has not received tax pardons or tariffs. How many bankrupt companies were saved by public banks, and you made the public pay for the billions of dollars of taxpayers' taxes. $5 billion in debt from TELEKOM companies has been wiped out in one piece. You said nothing about the Lebanese Hariri family leaving without paying their debt to Oger Telecom. Now, but when it comes to City University, we'll pay for it. Despite what they say, the doors close to their faces, the trustees planned two years ago are being sent. An educational institution is being left to die. That's wrong. My dear friends, with this law, we have destroyed the foundation of our open teaching system, which has allowed millions of citizens to receive university education since 1982. The open teaching model that Professor Yilmaz Buyukerşen, who is now our Eskişehir Metropolitan Mayor, has given our University of Anatolia and Turkey, is a model that allows us to give our citizens, such as the village institutes, the opportunity for education and equality in education. Now, you're confiscating his money. You're also destroying the core of the system by removing 2 million passive students from open education. These are the wrong steps, my dear friends.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0334par0513	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0333par0514	My dear friends, since 2009, $1 billion,750 million of the open school has been taken out of the state-run University budget and then transferred to the Treasury and then to the YKK. They were buying $40 million a year. What they're doing right now is the law's way of doing what they're doing, but it's not true. Nowhere in the world, governments don't confiscate college money like that. Now, I'm going to say a few things, and I'm saying that these coins are going to be used to raise a doctorate. Therefore, there will be a Ph.D. student here. It is unacceptable for the public education money of Anadolu University to be confiscated on the grounds of that. Second, open education in remote education was actually an opportunity.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0335par0518	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0333par0519	Just in time for the plague, it became clear how much we needed remote training. I wish that instead of spending $1 billion and $750 million into unnecessary spaces, the infrastructure of remote education was now needed. My dear friends, it is clear that what needs to be done here should be returned to the 1990s model in the 1980s. If it's too much money. If it's tried -- that's what it's called in the Commission talks -- then let's not take it from the students. Don't think I'm an open school student. Many try to study from one side, many sell the bracelet on their arm, sell the cow in the barn to study in public education. If it's too much money, then let's not take it or take it, let's make sure that these kids, our young people in open school, we call it an education from the cradle to the grave, spend it on their needs. I say we stop dynamited the foundation of open teaching, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0335par0522	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the sentence added to the first joke of Article 31 of Law No. 2547, which is held under Article 3 of Law Proposal 212, we would like to ask that the declaration be changed as a condition of having it. Hasan Kalyoncu Ali Muhittin Taşdoğan İbrahim Ethem Sedef Lütfi Spooner Mehmet Celal Fendoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Gaziantep MP Ali Muhittin Taşdoğan wants to take a stand on the motion. Here they are, Mr. Stoneborn.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0336par0535	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, this is a period of debate about the rapid spread of the corona virus, the threat to the health of millions, and whether the healthcare system of countries can survive. The lack of treatment or vaccine of the disease, lack of respirators, is one of the biggest obstacles to resisting the global epidemic. The importance of protective medicine has appeared once again. Let man live so that the state may live. Our philosophy is once again riveted. We have hundreds of thousands of people working in all businesses in international companies. Turkish and foreign employers who work in Turkish offices, managers, and people who are called upper and mid-level white collars, often travel abroad. Co-ordinating human resources and information processing departments of all foreign and domestic companies operating in the private sector with ties to abroad should be established as a system of international and domestic travel tracking. Travelers' health, location and travel data must be monitored through the system. The domestic and international travel tracking system must also be established by the Ministry of Health and provided data through the systems established by companies. The Ministry of Health must be briefed regularly and provided with data access. Thus, the risk factor is regularly monitored as to which countries the people traveling to high places go to, which cities they travel to when they return to our country. In particular, the conditions such as the Covid-19 epidemic that we face today -- God forbid -- must be followed and taken to control and minimize the risk of infectious diseases from other countries to our country. The same travel tracking system must be established for public employees, embassies and consulate employees traveling abroad by public institutions and organisations, and the data must be recorded by the Ministry. Congressmans, all your records are transferred to the Ministry of Health's information system, which is called the (e-Naboz) no matter which hospital or health institution you go to today by the Ministry of Health. In addition to the data collected at the Ministry of Health, the Ministry's travel tracking system may be easily monitored by integration with the application's E-Pensus system, which may negatively affect the health of individuals and society. Our country is the first appliance of the drug tracking system and product tracking system in the world. And since 2010, the major success in implementing the Product Tracking System since 2017 has also been a role model for many countries. So we as a country have infrastructure that can successfully track medicine and medical products. With a very simple interface software, we can also set up the travel tracking system and track the health of our people who come or go to areas where they are contagious and who they are in contact with. We also take advantage of the person traveling and of the health condition of those who are in contact with him in cases of pandemics and endemics, such as early measures, early treatment approach, by monitoring them through the existing e-raid system. I wish you'd consider how meaningful what we're saying these days. In this direction, the application of an international and domestic travel tracking system can easily be adapted and can contribute to protective health care practices. In this pandemic process, we have observed that the National Movement Party considers a number of opinions and proposals that we sincerely convey to our Ministry officials on the basis of the protective medicine that we are talking about in our election declarations. We advise them to consider this proposal, which we find valuable for protective and preventive measures. Dear MPs, as our President, Mr. State Gardener, says, of course, with the power of mind, science and prayer, we resist the virus epidemic, we try to prevent it, to prevent it. Besides, we believe we're going to win the fight. In this process, taking advice, not being alarmed, trusting and believing each other is the only solution. I salute the Veteran Assembly, the namesake of Gaziantep.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0337par0542	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on the fourth article, and I'm reading the first motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 4 of Law Proposal 212 in the following manner. "The following sentence was added after the first sentence in the first paragraph of Article 33 (a) of Article 4-2547 of the Law. 'You must not be 40 years old as of January 1st of the year when the exam took place to apply for the research worker's staff.' Muazzez Orhan Light Züleyha Gülim Tulay Hatim Sons Orç Tuma Çelik Omar Ocalan Suryet Dilan Taşdemir Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Ağrı MP Diryet Dilan Taşdemir wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Stonedemir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0338par0558	Thank you, Mayor. Dear friends, I have made a promise on the change in Article 33 of Law 2547. With this clause, 35-year-olds are required to be brought in for teaching staff. Frankly, we don't think there should be an age limit for academicism, and we don't agree with it. So that's what we're against in terms of categorizing and limiting understanding. We said, "Don't set an age limit." Unfortunately, our proposal was not accepted. So not accepting the opposition's proposals, not agreeing to their opinions, obviously, a little bit in the outside of the AKP, a similar attitude in everything. Yesterday, you know, one execution law passed, and all opposition parties expressed their views, their concerns about this law; we talked about the deaths, but -- unfortunately, it was similar in your position today -- you approved the law in a way that was similar in your attitude -- you approved it, even played it funny, you passed it, you passed it, and unfortunately, it's still going on for those risk prisons. Dear friends, in every period, how you make an opportunity in everything, you're truly amazed. You're angry when you say that, but now, think about it, it's the day of the corona, there's a serious crisis in the world, there's a lot of people dealing with corona, and a lot of society is now locked up in houses, but you're trying to make arrangements in the form of a bag, especially in the form of law. Almost in these days of corona, Congress had to work as much as it had not worked in its history. Now, what is this called, not opportunity? It's really called opportunity, and you're using it beautifully. Dear friends, if we are to take a step towards universities, this SEC law, which is the product of September 12th, let's put it together, let's fight it together, let's try to create infrastructure, conditions, but unfortunately we know very well that you have no such intention. Because you need this institution, which is the name of lawlessness, and you need it, and you want to keep it, and you're not just trying to maintain it, but you're actually trying to take it further back. Look, you have a history with the CEC, as with many other subjects. You know, when you claim to be such a democrat, when you're wearing the mask of democracy, we know what you're saying about the NGO, what kind of propaganda you're building over the SEC. But I'm afraid your attitude is not a bit different today, it's actually very different. So you're almost in power over this SEC. The NGO was antidemocratic then, and now antidemocratic. At the time, students were expelled from school only because they wanted to study in the main language; disciplinary penalties were imposed; students who are now demanding the same, students who want to exercise their democratic rights, not only do they face disciplinary sentences; students, people are being arrested, and there are now hundreds of students in prison. Dear friends, I've told you now that the NGO has a history. If some countries are able, if they have power, in a sense take over the state, they are taking the ECHR into their own service, developing specific politics. Look, in the time of your association with the congregation, you have officially handed over universities, YOK, to the congregation, and it has become their garden. But that's what we were saying at the time, at universities, at the YRK; there's grouping, there's staffing, there's manpower, there's questions being stolen. Then the questions are being stolen. What did you do? You've made him a target, you've judged him. And then you came out and said, "I swear, it's true. These people stole questions. These people are bad people." But that doesn't matter because what happened happened was the future of people, of young people. Again, you began a similar opportunism on the 15th of July. What did you do with the State of Emergency excuse? You have officially struck the SEC, the universities, removed thousands of academics on the basis of the KHK, and replaced them with your supporters. Now, this isn't the first time you've done this. You know, there's a lot of similar examples in the history of the world, because information and free thinking are meant to be designed. There's a search for a single, sexist generation that doesn't question everything. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mayor.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0339par0567	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0338par0568	You know, that's the reason why it's so hard to defend the NGO who persecuted the universities and did these illegalities. But we want to remind you that information may be difficult for you, that you might want to use information like this, but for us, for real academy knowledge is not only power; it is power to think, think, exist, really change. So in a sense, knowledge is the quest for liberation. And in that respect, no one could stop the academy, free thought, and he was defeated. There are many examples of this in history. And I'm sure you won't be able to do it with all these laws, with this bag of laws, with the middle of the night intervention. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0339par0571	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the higher education law and the amendment to some Laws be changed in the first verse of Article 4 of the Law Proposal. Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu Orhan Çakır Enez Kaplan Fahrettin Yoshş Arslan Kabukcuoğlu Yasin Özturk Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. It's Mr. Yasin Ozturk who wants to talk about the motion. Here they are, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0340par0584	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, whose country's agenda and the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, have brought disciplinary sentences of academics to the agenda of the General Assembly as a mockery of the citizens, the foundation universities to be opened, the students of the open education faculty can't continue their studies if they don't deposit registration money. I say, "Woe to you!" I say, "El have mercy!" I say, "Pes! It's a shame for both our scientists and our citizens to gather to regulate the disciplinary sentences of academics while the country is concerned about life and property. If this is so urgent about our universities, then how can we improve the quality of our universities, and how can we solve the problems of the academics? You should have started with the department. About 8 million higher education students are educated at our total 207 universities, where 129 are the state and 78 are the foundation. Education is the most national issue of every society. The foundation of our future can only be laid by a modern, rational and scientific educational system. Therefore, anywhere in the world, every sane government prioritizes education. In education, quality and priority are not building university buildings or increasing the number of universities. It is a relative concept that the number of universities or the number of students studying in college is related to the level of development. If your country is remembered for its breakthroughs in higher education, for its achievements in science, for its achievements, for its international efficiency of graduate diplomas, then it's also a success that you have a higher number of universities and graduates, but if you have universities that can't even enter the top 100 percent of the world's rankings, it's time to put your hat in front of you. Article 4 of the law proposal requires that you do not complete 35 years of age to apply for a research assignment. According to Higher Education Law 2547, researchers are professors who assist in research, study and experiments conducted at higher education institutions and perform other relevant tasks given by competent bodies. Is the bill we're interviewing bringing in a new sentence for the investigators? No. This age limit in the regulation cannot be regulated by the regulation of a matter the State should take part in. The laws are being made in accordance with the hierarchy over the cancellation decision. Well, since that's come up, doesn't it ever occur to you that the rights of investigators are improving? Unfortunately, the answer to that question is no. The researchers, who do other relevant tasks given by the authorities, are unfortunately the most mobbinized staff in the academic community. These personnel, who are obliged to perform other tasks given by authorized organs due to their mission descriptions, remain silent and vulnerable to any pressure they face in the continuation of their academic careers. In our universities, a survey was conducted on researchers. The answers given by investigators are very interesting. 20.2 per cent of the researchers who make up my samples as a student with a scholarship to the status of a research officer, 20.9 per cent as a government official, 22.7 per cent as a scientist, 16 per cent as an assistant advisor, and 20.2 per cent as an assistant professor. Here are the answers of the researchers who have the courage to express their working conditions clearly. I'm describing them somewhere in the middle. As the investigators say, their problems are obvious. On top of that, a new arrangement is to try to discipline these staff at the bottom of the academic ladder with a discipline stick -- as in other academics. The disciplinary board of the university is listed as the objection address of a professor who is considered undisciplined by Zati initiative. In accordance with the government's new legislation, I would like to commend you on how objectively our so-called autonomous universities, who can't elect their president, who can't appoint their dean, who can't appoint their dean, who can't appoint their dean, and who has been appointed by power, who has no interest in the department, who can't form a senate, who can't open staff, who can't submit to the address, how objectively the appeals will be evaluated under the structure of political governments.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0341par0589	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0340par0590	And the last thing I'm saying is that the biggest investment is an investment in people, and the investment in people goes through education. We're not opposed to starting a new university, nor to increasing our number of college students. However, we are also opposed to universities whose academic structures are inadequate, only to increase the number of young people looking for work for a few more years, which have no function except not to show them in the unemployed army, and who are willing to turn universities into a backyard. Our universities should be a den of science, not the laboratory of your attempts at authoritarianism. My respects.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0341par0593	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are 2 motions on the 5th article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 5 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws under the 212 High School Law in the following way. In the fourth sentence of Article 36 of Law No. 5-2547, the third sentence of Article 36 of the Law "will come after the declaration that had been sufficient": "Students and professors who have been in charge of teaching units given such as 22/2/2018 and who have been in charge of the higher education Act 7100 and who have been in charge of their studies over eight hours a week and who have been in accordance with the Second Amendment in Article 34 of the Law shall be paid an additional fee in the amount of an additional number of 11 14 hours a week, including those in accordance with the second of Article 34 of the Article of the Law. Sibel Özdemir Mahir Polat Süleyman Bulbül Yıldırım Kaya alpay Antmen Tekin Bingöl Serkan Topal Turan Aydoğan Abdurrahman Tutdere Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. It's Mr. Süleyman Nightingale who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0342par0612	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the High School Law and to the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. In countries where democracy and freedoms exist, scientific autonomy develops; science, thought develops; rights and freedoms take place in the constitution; and people are not afraid, because of what they say in the empire of fear, because of what they write, because of what they do, professors at the university are not afraid of power because of their scientific work; they are free to write, along with their writings, with their scientific works, to open up the future of that land, that is clear and clear. As for our country, when the European Court of Human Rights is considered, the European Convention on Human Rights is the country that violates the freedom of expression and thought the most. We are the country that violates three rights and freedoms the most and have the worst record in the European Court of Human Rights. What does that mean? People are scared, and when people show their opposition, they see that their way is prison. What's he doing? Silence, civil society organizations silent, associations in society silent, democratic mass organizations silent, universities silent. What happens when colleges shut up? There are no oppositions in scientific publications, and professors are afraid, academics are afraid. Look, my friends, the peace academics' case in our country is clear and clear. People were arrested in court for what they did, signed a statement, court-martialed. What happened? The Constitutional Court has issued a violation of a right in the declaration on peace academics, and the courts have ruled an acquittal. Because of this empire of fear, what happens because of a society without freedom? People can't make a sound anymore. Where does this reflect? It reflects on colleges. See, friends, the number of students whose registration was deleted in May and December 2019 is 481,237. Why did 481,000 students erase their records in eight months? This should be asked and questioned, and the NGO is the one that's going to answer that. See, friends, in the 2018-2019 school year survey of the world's college ranking center, we have 13 universities among the top 1,000 universities in the world, and we have fallen to 10 universities in 2019-2020. See, friends, according to the European Statistical Institution data, we are the only country in 35 countries where the unemployment rate in Turkey's university graduates is higher than primary school graduates. So college students, college graduates can't get jobs, that's obvious. Now, look at the suicides, look at the suicides of kids who graduated from college, they've been multiplying over the last few years. Friends, look at the NGO website, 36 rectors don't have one article in international referee magazines. Where does it say that? It's on the NGO's website. When we look at it, 68 presidents have no international publications, zero references, no international publications of 68 rectors, no reference. What does that mean, what are they doing? There's no legitimacy in the postings of presidents at universities, there's no professional work; there's partisanism; there's partisanism, walking along with partisanism. It's the court regime, friends, that's responsible for the decline in science, which brings inadequacy to universities. They said, "We will remove the custody." They said, "We will remove the custody of the judge." They went and handed it over to him at the September 12, 2010 referendum, and what happened? The court's custody is here, it's on trial. Where did it come from? He's been everywhere, he's been to colleges. Currently, the AKP has established palace custody over universities. Look at the rectors brought in, my friends, and look at the rectors, who are former members of AKP, the President of 9 September University.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0343par0620	Go ahead.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0342par0621	See, Nihat Hatipoglu, Yaşar Hadjisalihoğlu, who was a missionary on the side channel? There's not a single article on these guys, there's not a single article on these guys. See the presidents who don't write articles, who don't have a single reference in their foreign writings. Look, there are many other rectors along with these. There are also some rectors, sausages... there are some rectors, who are appointed by the rectors, who kiss the sheik's hand, then come out, perform the eulogy rituals, and are punished for the succubinctive. Why is that? There's no merit. Why is that? No freedoms. The solution is simple, friends. There is no scientific autonomy in Turkey after democracy and freedoms have not arrived, after the parliamentary democratic system did not come after the palace custody of universities, when the only man's regime did not come instead of the parliamentary democratic system. Thank you all.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0343par0624	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the higher education law and the amendment to some laws be changed in the first article of Article 5 of the Law Proposal. Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu Orhan Çakır Enez Kaplan Fahrettin Yoşış İbrahim Halil Oral Arslan Kabukcuoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Now, it's Mr. Ibrahim Halil Oral who wants to talk about the motion. Here they are, Mr. Oral.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0344par0637	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI Group on the 5th amendment to the Higher Education Law. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, this text, which offers a change in the Higher Education Law, in general, brings a lot of positive regulations, but we need a radical academy reform, an effective academic morality and a brand of universities. It has nothing to do with opening a university that contains chapters in every corner, every Anatolian city. That would bring tenants to the hosts and customers to the shopkeepers. When some of our rectors, our vice-princes, are taken to the WhatsApp group for exchange of information about the coronavirus, instead of expressing their opinion, we stand by our president as he decides. Some of our academics prefer to become doctors, doctors, professors, and supporters of power with those titles on TV. Instead of transforming the Academy into a factory that produces free information, you're on your way to convert it into a trading facility that produces allies. It's obvious you value science. The Coronavirus Science Board has been offering you a curfew for weeks, but you're blocking your ears. If colleges become corrupt, our future will be clouded by dark clouds. Dear lawmakers, you have to look at it from this point of view and do an academy forum, led by the collective mind of science. Article 5 opens the way for the staff of different staff to be able to teach as an instructor. This will be the completion of a given right, but it is also a fact that the person who teaches at the academy must be competent in grad school, or it must be provided. This deficiency needs to be repaired immediately. Precious lawmakers, the state is obliged to maintain a sense of solidarity. For people who were victims of the Coronavirus, the National Alliance has launched many relief campaigns and raised substantial sums of money. The other day, Mr. Home Secretary, who didn't go on camera to resign or apologize to our nation, then stood up to the cameras and used strange statements, as other aid-seeking municipalities tried to establish a new government. As Ankara MP, I'd like to give an example from Ankara. No one can stop the hand that wants to help. The mayor of the city, Mr. Mansur, said that sickness is not as contagious as goodness. He called on thousands of citizens to close their books on credit and succeeded. His language, his religion, his race, whatever his political views, brought help to many needy families. So, what did power do? He sent police to the People's Bread buffets in Istanbul. And then when he got the reaction, he fixed it by the governor's office. Likewise, the municipality's distribution of the People's Bread was interrupted in Muğla. Dear friends, put your hand on your conscience, how do you interfere with the hand that delivers free bread? How do you stop the city when the private baker is handing out bread? These municipalities are the Russian municipality, not the Chinese municipality, but the honorable municipalities of the Republic of Turkey. You've even subjected state institutions to political party discrimination. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0345par0645	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0344par0646	To make a note of history, these are municipalities that have kept you in power for 18 years, elected by the will of the nation, and these municipalities will take you out of power, never forget that.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0346par0647	You wish!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0344par0648	The National Alliance strongly condemns and denies all obstacles to the relief efforts of its municipalities. With these thoughts, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit03spe0347par0651	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit04spe0347par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 85th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 212. Commission? He's in position. There are four motions on the 6th article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 6th article of the Law Proposal, 212, be removed from the proposal. Muazzez Orhan Ilk Zuleyha Gülim Omar Ocalan The children of Tulay Hatim Oruç Tuma Çelik Şevin Coshkun Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Şevin Coşkun wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Coshkun.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit04spe0348par0017	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the 6th amendment of the proposal. I salute the General Assembly. The article stated that the total number of students in open education appears to be indiscriminately high, causing student planning to fail to produce healthy results. According to the article, 3.5 million students are only passive at the beginning of the period, so more than 2 million students are unable to participate in the teaching process. However, students are expected to be cut off from the open school programme by failing to pay a four-term contribution or tuition fee in a row. Dear lawmakers, this clause is clearly proof of the failure of power in education policies. To praise the educational system of political power, millions of our young people study colleges. It has been proven because of this clause, where their rhetoric is unrealistic. The problem is not the passive status of students in the open school program, but the situation of the education system. Dear MPs, there are enormous problems with education, especially with universities. With each passing day, the scientific mind is removed, making arrangements for the country's problems or needs. The academics, who will contribute to the solution of problems, are being expelled. The Kurdish issue, minority rights, the need for democratisation, is prohibited from discussing and investigating problems in universities. Academics are forced to respond to the needs of institutions that are being marketed instead of scientific research, to apologize for telling the truth during the day of the coronavirus. Students are experiencing basic problems such as the lack of housing and scholarship rights throughout their education life. The first thing to talk about today and to do is to create free housing for students, building more capable dorms. The government is obliged to pay the student's financial costs for education, but even in the days of the coronavirus, we can't get by. The scholarships of Ankara University students who perform are being cut off, those who can't pay their dorm fees are deprived of housing rights. The government does not even consider erasing student loans while helping capital with billions of dollars and erasing tax debt. Dear lawmakers, Parliament cannot solve these problems, but with such offers, it deepens the problems and restricts the freedom of academics even more. With this offer, it is required to pass non-responsive substances, such as not raising staff for disciplinary sentences, filing a false report, disrespecting its superior, without any measure, through the House. The government says it's the measurement in every field. Neither human rights nor scientific knowledge nor academic freedom are considered a measure. In the tenders of municipalities, the construction sector is now drafting a bill for a group of supporters who have been donated to university campuses, just as the government is drafting legislation for its supporters in privatisation processes. If an academic were to have an argument with an associate on a scientific basis, they'd say I was disrespected, and they'd start an investigation. If a study is conducted that criticises government policies, an investigation will be launched again. It's obvious that it's not believable, and it's not acceptable in the scientific field. Dear lawmakers, the Higher Education Board must be removed because it is a coup institution. We are faced with a bill that strengthens the mentality of the YOK. What we need today is how the academic field will be freer, how it will contribute to the problems of a country, but it is the continuation of the coup d'état in the establishment of the ECK. Dear MPs, I'd like to give you an example of the same mentality that the people who made the YOK permanent today share. Young Ay Gürsoy, a medical doctor, is one of the most important and conscientious academics in this country. In 1984, the Enlightenment petition, which included the request for democratisation of the Kenan Universe, was signed by the Enlightenment Proclamation. The coupzer Kenan said to 1,246 intellectuals signed the petition, (AKK) has taken action, Gursoy and the intellectuals have been suspended. Thirty-two years after the Enlightenment petition, in 2016, thousands of intellectuals signed the declaration that we would not be a party to this crime. There was a call for peace and democracy, and Genay Gürsoy was signed in this statement. This time, President Erdogan said that peace academics were in the dark. This time the decrees have been issued under the law and thousands of academics have been discharged, and Gürsoy has been sentenced to two years and three months in prison, and intellectuals have been sentenced to civilian death this time. After 32 years, Gursoy was once again exposed to the practices of the Universe by the current power in its continuation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit04spe0349par0027	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit04spe0348par0028	Dear lawmakers, there has been no other government that says it is anti-plot and is so intertwined by coup institutions and the idea of coup. To think that the ECHR is still a useful tool is to control university campuses, classrooms, teachers' rooms over the SEC. We do not see coup applications only through the SEC; the denial of June 7th elections, the arrest of the voters who received millions of votes on November 4, 2016, and the OHL and its applications, the trustee practices that began again on 16 August 2019. We're dealing with a power that's sunk into the mud of impact mechanics, and even has been the force of impact mechanics itself. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit04spe0349par0031	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the third paragraph of Article No. 2547 and Article 44 of Law (c), we propose and propose that the student who has failed to meet these conditions will be removed from the material text of the sentence. Yıldırım Kaya Kaya Sibel Özdemir Süleyman Bulbül Ahmet Akin Abdurrahman Tutdere Serkan Topal Tekin Bingöl Turan Aydoğan Mahir Polat Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. It's Mr. Serkan Topal who wants to talk about the motion. Here they are, Mr. Clumsy.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit04spe0350par0048	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow congressmen, I pay my respects to all of you. Actually, we were going to talk about three or four more things, but since there are motions in other substances, I'm going to try to put all my talk, all the problems with education together in one item. I'm afraid we don't have a chance to put it together in one item. Of course, at the moment, the 6th article is also being imposed on open school students during their studies. I mean, the records of our students who didn't register for four semesters are dropping. In fact, it violates the 40th article of the Constitution. Why is it out of the ordinary? Yeah, we're thinking of a condition, but let's say it's free education, free education, and then let's let those who don't sign up after that go. That's why I don't find this stuff right. So first, let's get a free education, everyone with no money... our student friends who have already applied for this Open School are often victims in the countryside, so sometimes they can't actually register because they have to work because they can't find registration money. First, bring in a broke record-renewal system, and then it could be for those who don't register four semesters in a row. Dear friends, I have just listened carefully to Mr. Atalay. He spoke of scientists, universities before Milattan, Plato, Aristotle, Ibn Ruşd, Farabi, and I agree that I have absolute respect for his academic knowledge, but when I mentioned Aristotle here yesterday, I wanted to say this again: Justice must first come from the state. Like we said, now, when he was talking about scientists, he also mentioned inquisition courts. We all know how Galilei was excommunicated by inquisitor courts because the world is turning around. Isn't that the same thing happening here, folks? I mean, how can we explain the difference between the inquisition courts at the time and the release of the peace academics at this time? Look, the Constitutional Court has a verdict; they're making a decision in July, the criminal courts are deciding, and despite all of that, the State of Emergency Commission still isn't deciding, stalling. Now, Mr. Atalay has mentioned the inquisition courts. So, where's the difference? It's no different, guys. So in colleges, really science has lost blood, and I want to express it here, dear friends. Now, of course, there are so many problems in the education system. For example, look, in the OECD countries, the average amount of $8,377 for a pre-school student is in our country, unfortunately, $1,798; again, $8,470 for an elementary school student, and we're worth $1,395. Especially because of the coronavirus, some of our fellow teachers were victimized, and I'd like to express that, for example, our paid teacher friends, master teachers. Dear friends, they must be resolved -- we don't have a commission president -- so the problems of both master teachers and paid teacher friends must be resolved. Besides, the EBA system just came in, guys. EBA system's down, guys. Look, financial mistakes are very, very simple. And the system in private schools, the videos are really much better, and that's why students at current public schools are being victimized by this system. This system needs to be set up immediately, we need to ensure the equality of opportunity. Besides, our college students are equally valuable friends. Again, we need to bring in the teaching profession as soon as possible, so that we can get rid of it; no contractual, staffed, paid distinctions. Our fellow teachers waiting for the appointment... of course, we can talk more, but we're running out of time. Finally, dear friends, when curfew was declared, thousands of our citizens were victims. In particular, products that were sent to other cities had to be thrown out, unfortunately. Their sacrifices must be compensated, dear friends. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I wrap it up?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit04spe0351par0061	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit04spe0350par0062	Thank you. As I said, at the time of curfew, the victims of our citizens must be eliminated. Finally, I'd like to say once again, dear friends: we have many foreign citizens, especially about 20 or 25,000 people in Hatay. Our MHP MP, the valued Lütfi Spooner, again, Mr. Haci Bayram Türkoglu, is doing their best, but really, especially in Arabia, Libya, Qatar, Kuwait, Umman, Sudan, Iraq, and Cyprus, we have at least 20,000 Hatays, and we have citizens who are really, in the middle of conflict in Libya, who are hungry in Arabia, who are in the streets. Yes, two or three planes were brought in today, and they were brought in from Kuwait, but they were not enough. I ask you, once again, to bring our citizens from these countries, immediately, or to solve their problems there. I thank you, all of you, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit04spe0352par0067	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of higher education and the amendment to some Laws be changed in the form of the first amendment of Article 6 of the Law Proposal. Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu Orhan Çakırlar Fahrettin Yoşış Enez Kaplan Yasin Özturk Arslan Shellcucuoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. It's Mr. Fahrettin Yoshş who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Uphill.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit04spe0353par0080	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. You know, we're negotiating the RDR Act. In our universities, there are some results in a study of all university employees, including about 2,500 professors, academics, administrative officers, workers, including all university employees. I'd like to share these results with you. It turns out that university employees have problems with transfers and transplants at the top of their most victimized issues. 64.90 per cent of university employees surveyed, or 2 per third, refer to this victim. In the 2nd place comes torpedo and nepotism. 60.40 per cent of university employees say that torpedo and nepotism are very intense. In third place, the injustices of administrative appointments are 59 per cent. In the fourth place, there are deficiencies and injustices in matters of financial and social rights. In the 5th place, the 13th Article of the 2547 Law. You know, this stuff gives the rectors a variety of powers, so the fate of the workers is between the lips of the rectors; the pleasure is very intense here. That is at the very beginning of the most suffering issues. Another problem with staff is harassment and Mobbing, which is the sixth ranking, and one third of university employees complain about it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if we honor these numbers, these numbers carefully, we will already understand the state of our universities. We all know that there are many speakers here, and unfortunately our universities have been handed over to incompetent, incompetent rectors. A lot of them have turned our universities into a family business, and you all know it. Will our universities change with this law? That's the argument. But I'd like to give you an example of some of the applications here. For example, they set a condition for applying for a professor's ad from the Ömer Halisdemir University School of Engineering to study in the field of lactic acid bacteria, aromatic substances, antocyins and storage. Suleiman Demirel University's declaration of professorship for the Ancient Main Science Branch has been declared to be the work of the Pers Military Organization and its Institutions. Şırnak University Faculty of Theology is also a PhD in Arabic and phrasing and studying Ibn Ebi Zemenin and the exposition of... I mean, delivery to address, hand-delivering essays. Now, in addition, another example, Nevşehir Haci Bektas Veli University, is one of the items that stands out in the ongoing employment declaration. The article states: "The certificate of the candidates applying for the gardener's adverts in the area of the tapep nuts is certified by the Ministry of National Education. For God's sake, what's the connection between the University of Nevşehir and the Pistachios? However, the chancellor is likely to appoint, or appoint, a member of Urbana.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit04spe0354par0095	Let's move on, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit04spe0353par0096	Now, believe me, there's no time for me to count these things, but those who make what we call science nests have to think about, we all have to think about it. So, hopefully, hopefully, our SEC and university administrators will get something out of these talks and say, "We'll be a country that's really proud of our science-based universities, our rightful rectors, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit04spe0354par0098	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the sentence added to paragraph 3 of Article 44 (c) of Law Article 2547 under the 6th Article of Law Proposal 212, we propose and propose that the letter of Law 212 be replaced by a clause. Hasan Kalyoncu Ali Muhittin Taşdoğan Mehmet Celal Fendoğlu Lütfi Spooner İbrahim Ethem Sedef Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. It's Mr. Hasan Kalyoncu of İzmir who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kalyoncu.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit04spe0355par0111	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our Veteran Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation. The Ministry of Health has taken all precautions against the Coronavirus epidemic, and our government is continuing effectively to fight all its institutions; it displays one of the best fighting examples in the world. These world epidemics affect all areas from economy to politics and create a national security problem. In such cases, the Ministry of National Defense must be actively prepared. The head of the KBRN Office, which is at the level of agency head of the National Defence Ministry, should be transformed into a possible presidential position; all competent personnel needed in chemical, biological, radioactive, and nuclear subtitles must be employed, form scientific boards, develop labs and action plan; at the same time, keep a close eye on developments in the world. Covid 19 is known or expressed by an animal market in China. If that is the case, in such a small market, it is necessary for exotic and wild animals to be kept together in close cages, shallow waters, to be cut off in the marketplace, to mix their blood and internal organs into the sewers, to consume them without good cooking, to reassess human relationships with natural life. The most important difference between the past century and today is that we live in a much more dense and densely populated way with animals whose number of animals we've made unstable in the natural environment to consume and feed. The activities and rapid urbanization of natural areas bring together human communities and animals living in the same area that have managed to live away from each other throughout the ages, and force them to be very close. Animals usually have the most resistant bodies to survive when their habitats are corrupted or the land is poisoned. These animals can also contain the deadliest viruses for humans. It is now known that pathogens in these resistant animals evolve without any treatment in nature and that diseases that jump from animals to people will always be there. A 2008 study found that between 1960 and 2004, a total of 335 diseases emerged and 60 percent of them stemmed from human interaction with animals. According to a 2012 report by the International Institute for Animal Research, more than 2 million people die each year from domesticated and wildlife - transmitted diseases. From 1999 to this part of South Asia, there was an epidemic on 12 small scales of animals. Experts say such outbreaks are a small part of the iceberg. At the same time, the coronavirus hits the northern and southern hemispheres seasonally. This would result in recent breakages in the food supply chain. Our government must give special attention to the chain of agriculture, food and water. We have to be prepared for further outbreaks by developing the experiences we've had from the Corona epidemics. The science boards are also required to include virologists and biologists. The problems of basic science and especially biology must be put on the table immediately. The problems caused by microscopic organisms are clear that the threat of bio-smuggling that our biological wealth has been exposed to can be solved by the fact that humanity has high-equipped staffs.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit04spe0356par0118	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit04spe0355par0119	In this regard, the SEC and universities are given a major task. These matters must be brought into their primary areas immediately. On this occasion, stay home, Turkey says. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit04spe0356par0122	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Now, members of lawmakers, there are two motions on the 7th article, which I will carry out with me. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 7 of Law Proposal 212 be removed from the proposal. Muazzez Orhan Light Züleyha Gülim Tulay Hatim Sons Orç The signatures of the other motion are: Yıldırım Kaya Sibel Özdemir Turan Aydoğan Suleiman Nightingale Uğur Bayraktutan Albay Antmen Mahir Polat Fikret Şahin Ahmet Akin Serkan Topal Abdurrahman Tutdere Tekin Bingöl Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Züleyha Gülim, the Istanbul MP who asked to speak on the same terms. Here you go, Mr. Rose.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit04spe0357par0145	The epidemic period, in fact, reminded us once again how important science is to autonomous universities, which are independent of power, that what is not in Turkey should actually be rebuilt after this epidemic, but I'm afraid the government has learned no lessons from it, which has also brought to our attention another regulatory, authoritarian, freedom of thought. He's already done it before; he's exported thousands of academics, he's removed the presidential elections, he's completely destroyed the autonomous structure of universities that even exists in part. While we argued that the ECHR should be removed, while defending the removal of the SEC, which was the result of the fascist coup on September 12th, the AKP, which came to call freedoms, continued with more oppressive, more authoritarian practices that reduced autonomy to zero. Today's practice is actually part of it. Now, what does the law say? Increase quality and efficiency in higher education. Is it really like this? I wonder if quality and efficiency are being done with oppressive policies, by blocking free thinking, by simply opening up ways to get people out of college. Now, what does this arrangement bring? The academics themselves -- I mean, you didn't leave much in the middle -- they sort of eliminate the form of democratic relationship, they turn it into a chain of command, they impose a hierarchy, and so they remove even the crumbs of free thinking. Now, why was this law brought into existence? The Constitutional Court's earlier cancellation of the law on this issue has been brought up on grounds. But the Constitutional Court didn't tell you to go around my decision, and then, in fact, do the opportunism as you please, and bring in the oppressive arrangements from here. He said: "Make arrangements for higher education, democratic college; such arrangements cannot be made. " But you have turned this into opportunity, just as you have turned the day of the corona into opportunity. And here's how I'll keep it quiet for the faculty, for the academy officials, in fact, with a series of disciplinary fines, how I'll throw people out of the academy that don't work for me, and you've done the math. For example -- as usual, as we discussed a lot in the previous legal arrangement -- an arrangement that says, "Do terrorist acts and support these actions." Now you say to the article set out to promote terrorist organizations, to help or assist these organisations, to use public resources and resources to support these organisations. You are setting them up as a reason to punish and throw them away. So what are you really saying? I've taken something called terror propaganda, I'll use it everywhere, I'll place it in the Penal Code, I'll put it in education, I'll place it everywhere, I'll throw out anyone who doesn't want to obey me, anyone who doesn't think like me, even in college; I'll throw out his whole life, his experience, his savings, the benefits he can provide for this country. What you're saying is actually from this substance, that's the sum of it. We know very well that you're bringing what you call "terror organization propaganda" to where you want it, and you're immediately applying it to someone who's opposed to you -- and those substances are never applied -- and you don't need to look for any evidence, even the one he's thrown on social media is enough for that. Now, what else do you call the bill? ▪ Don't pay attention to the upbringing of the members of your crew. • Is there an employee at the university, and how is that an approach? Nobody's an employee. In college, each individual is trying to produce science on its own. So what you're saying is, if you talk about anything other than my point of view to the people you're associated with, if you take an approach to that, it's illegal, and I'll give you disciplinary action on that. Again, it's a crime to file a false report. And what you're saying from here is that the technical reports by academics based on scientific data and documents, for example, that when a CED report doesn't like the government, you're going to say it's against the truth, and you're going to do fines with disciplinary investigation from here. As a punishment for contempt, disrespecting your superiors during duty... What is this disrespect? Disrespect for who? Who puts limits on that? Or on the other hand, what are we going to do with them? What are we going to do with them? There's no response to any of this again. Again, another arrangement: disobeying the general moral code, immoral conduct and conduct, not conforming to the set disguises and clothing. Whose morality are we talking about? Whose literature are we talking about? Who puts up the standard? Why are you interfering with our disguise?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit04spe0358par0155	Let's move on.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit04spe0357par0156	You've come again, you've had the right to intervene in women's bodies, women's clothes. Again, you say, "We interfere with your dress, your behavior." What right do you have to do this to whom? Again, you order any other matter within the area of duty to help use, to use, to use, for the purposes of meeting, ceremony, and so forth. Now, you know what this is? In practice, it's this: in the panels, demonstrations, forums and so on, when university officials naturally support students, when they're in it, you say, "Ha, look, you can't do this, I punish you." Again, you brought the stuff from here to ban. On the contrary, we say that universities should be autonomous, that there should be no ruling institutions, especially the arrangement brought by the fascist regime of September 12th. There's no such thing as PLO, there's no way he's in college. Stop running like a criminal execution agency.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit04spe0359par0160	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0359par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 85th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion, I'll have it read and put to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Advice 14/4/2020 Tuesday (now), the General Assembly's merger on Wednesday (April 15th 2020) was suggested to begin at 4 p.m. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman Muhammad Emin Akbasoğlu Engin Özkoç His group is acting president of the vice president group. Meral Danış Beştaş Mohammed Levent Nightingale His group is acting president of the vice president group. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 212. The commission is in place. Congressmans, I just said there are two motions on the 7th Amendment. There were three motions on the matter, including two of them for the same property. I've just read the same motions. Now the speaker of the 2nd amendment, Mr. Ugur Bayraktutan, is Artvin MP. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0360par0031	Mr. President, I have been promised by the Republican People's Party Group on Article 7 of the Law Proposal 212 that is being held. I salute your high council. At the beginning of my words, today I remember the dead leader of the Independent Turkey Party, Haydar Başfa, and all the lives we've lost so far, and wish the wounded immediate healing. My dear friends, what we have to say about this proposal is that some regulations have been made by the Constitutional Court to cancel Article 53 of Law 2547. In these regulations, some changes have been made in the Employment Law, as well as in the State Officers' Law, to those who serve as officers at higher education institutions, especially in relation to those who are related to the contract of employment at higher education institutions. Now, there are some problems here, what are they? Along with the provisions here, my dear friends, I'm afraid there are some discrepancy, interpretational arrangements and sanctions. What are these? They're putting up some fines -- Mr. Vice President Yıldırım Kaya has just mentioned -- there are definitions of 25 types of crime, my dear friends. In addition, there is a definition of a crime called disrespecting his superior during the mission. Again, other than that, there's general moral and unethical behavior, trying to publish, distribute, expose all kinds of banned literature, that's what it's all about. And he's bringing in arrangements for demonstration walks, meetings with no permit, at any location related to his post. My dear friends, as it turns out, these are arrangements that are open to any kind of subjectivity, beyond the measure of objectiveness. So, the person who uses this authority, a higher authority, can determine any action on the basis of the four dramatic reasons we set this example. Therefore, the day after tomorrow, they may cause major problems in practice. I draw the attention of the General Assembly, at least, to this matter being corrected. Because in theory, even though things have been put in this way with good intentions, we see what these problems in practice can be, my dear friends. Other than that, we need to distinguish one small detail from the other. My dear friends, you have to distinguish the fine line between court decisions and disciplinary decisions. You know, there's discipline here, warning of crimes, reprimanding, cutting from the month, halting phase progress, it's as clear as banning civil service, but there's some questionable, conflicting verdicts, there's open conclusions. We sincerely believe it will be corrected by a motion that will be made shortly. Especially with terrorism propaganda, such abstract, concrete concepts, when you present evidence, you can label any investigation you want about people without any evidence. Besides, that's what we're concerned about with disciplinary investigations at higher learning institutions. With the regulations brought in, the concepts of disciplinary investigations are expanded, so in a sense higher education institutions, universities, appear to be a criminal criminal organization. So what's the element of crime, as I've just expressed in terms of correcting these? In a sense, we're not making a claim to eliminate disciplinary investigations, to exploit them, to declare keenlemecine, my dear friends, but in this regard, even though the practitioners make arrangements with good intentions, those who apply it will bring these problems to our face tomorrow day. Look, the Constitutional Court has already decided to call it off. The Constitutional Court's decisions bind the legislative body, the executive body, the judicial body, all administrative organs -- public and private -- all sides. The Constitutional Court has already ruled on this, and in its cancellation decision, the university has cancelled the decision on the regulation of disciplinary provisions. What does that mean? He says the provisions here are serious. He took seriously the arrangements concerning people we refer to as members of the university, make legal arrangements and... he created the legal basis for it. Therefore, we specifically ask that these statements, which are particularly important to us in the 7th article, be removed from the legal text of the Constitutional Court, which we believe will soon be brought to us by the ruling group, especially in connection with terrorism, with propaganda, which is not supported by abstract, concrete evidence, without any grounds for any reason at all, be revealed immediately from this side of the Constitutional Court, as we have stated at first. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0361par0039	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 7 of Law Proposal 212 be replaced in the following manner by Article 212 and Article 53 of Law No. 2547 (b) which has been replaced. ίa) Taking terrorist action or supporting these actions, using or using public resources for these organisations. Muhammad Emin Akbaşoğlu Recep Special Selim Gültekin Does the commission agree with the motion? We're leaving it to appreciation, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: The amendments to verbs that require a public discharge of teaching staff are being reorganised. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. We're moving on to item eight. Congressmans, there are two motions on Article 8: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 8 of Law Proposal 212 in the following way. Muazzez Orhan Light Züleyha Gülim Tulay Hatim Sons Orç Tuma Çelik Ömer Ocalan Murat Sarısaç The second joke of Article 8-2547 of Article 53/E has been changed as follows. "The university disciplinary board is the university board. The boards of university-based agencies serve as disciplinary committees. The disciplinary board in the presidential departments consists of four professor-titled professors and officers appointed by the university board at the beginning of each calendar year, as well as the chairman of the Legal Advisor and the Chief of Staff for the members of the academic staff and office head of the senior staff. The union representative, who works for both the academic staff and the head of the agency, is included with equal authority as well as those who are equal and superior to the staff and those who are part of the work of these boards," he said. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Van MP Murat Sarısaç wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Yellowhair.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0362par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. I have been promised to convey our group's views on the 8th article. I salute the General Assembly and our people. Today is the day of the memorial of April 14th, Enfal. Because over 180,000 Kurds were massacred in the Iraqi Kurdistan, mosques, houses, schools were destroyed in four years. In Aleppoce alone, over 5,000 people were killed by toxic gases. Even today, mass graves of people who were brutally slaughtered by the racist Baas regime appear. This is Enfal. It's a Kurdish genocide program. But in the end, the world was not left to the barbarian Saddam. In Iraq, after Saddam, these crimes of humanity were known as genocide. In fact, Britain, Norway, Sweden's parliaments have taken close steps. But why doesn't the assembly of the country where more than 20 million Kurds live, the biological brothers of those who were slaughtered in Enphal, accept this as genocide? We've been brothers for a thousand years, but you're afraid you'll recognize Enfal as a Kurdish genocide. On the contrary, you make the name of the attack on Rojava, the Dallıdan of Zeytin, and you make him read the Conquest. Here, again, I honor the people we lost in the Enfal genocide. Of course, the House's work, its search for a solution to problems is appreciated, but it is necessary to make law without separating identity, faith, color, ideology. It shouldn't be like yesterday's execution law. For in the last offer, he looked us in the eye and said, "Let Idris Bauken die." He said yes to the law that left political prisoners to die. Of course, history will not forget it, nor will society's conscience condemn it. Now, while we're at it, we're discussing the proposal for higher education. But we can't see anything about the autonomy and academic freedom of the university in this bill. Because the condition of the entity is to put pressure on academics and students. We know about students who got kicked out of the dorm because of their views, who got cut off from scholarships. We know of peace academics who were not extradited despite the Supreme Court's acquittals. So the SEC is almost a court of inquisitors against university autonomy, the sword of Damocles, against academic freedom. At the moment, the 8th article of the proposal is being organised to see who will be on the disciplinary committees. But there's no transparency here either, because the boards are preventing a union representative from taking part. Thus, universities that do not take union representatives to the disciplinary board also prevent unions from exercising a right to a collective contract. The Constitution, on the other hand, adopts collective agreement provisions above the law. Therefore, collective agreement provisions must be applied directly. Therefore, it is necessary for union representatives to participate in relevant work on disciplinary committees. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, universities are the construction centers of a country's future under normal circumstances, the fortresses of science and art, but the AKP has turned the academy into the background of capital. Students' diplomas are now a piece of paper because college unemployment rates are a record, and even if they get a job, they can work unsecuredly, they can be seen as cheap labor. In short, the AKP's government does not value students because it cannot find support from university youth, because it also considers them customers. The AKP cannot expect a study to be done in favour of the university. Look, with community pressure, citizens who returned from the community were rushed to the dorms, but no students were seen with victims. It's remote training, but it's not known if students have Internet access or computers in their homes. Students are trying to track lessons through their cell phones. Those who build palaces by calling themselves palaces are saving money when it comes to young people.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0363par0079	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0362par0080	Yes, Mr. President. So, ultimately, the autonomy of the university and the freedom of the academics are the future of the country. As colleges fall apart, the nation will be taken prisoner by superstitions because where scientific freedom is not based, ignorance is only popular. Therefore, I remind you that the pride of Spain is not General Astray, but Garcia Lorca. France's pride was Jean Paul Sartre, not war-loving General De Gaulle. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0364par0084	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0365par0085	Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0364par0088	For the record, I'd like to underline it. In his speech, he read from the text, the name of the attack on the attack on Rojava (Rojava), the name of the attack on the attack, the name of Zeytin Dallı, and the story of the Conquistabulary. The reading of Olive Dalı, the Conquest Surah was made to preserve the unity and unity of our country; it was made to fight terrorism; it was there for the peace of Kurds, Arabs, Turks. I want to redraw this for our nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0366par0091	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0367par0092	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0366par0094	In fact, I had to make a promise at this hour of the night that he answered the words of our preacher. So the name of this trip to Rojava, or Northeast Syria, was expressed here for days, hours, hundreds of conversations. So I'm not going to reopen all the details of this at this time of night, but there's a fact: have the conquests been read? It's read. Is this called the Dallıdan of Zeytin? Okay. Has the area where the Kurds live in dense numbers been evacuated with Arabs, Armenians, Suryans, like Afrin? It's been evacuated and we've taken over this village in the media with a persistent and stubborn attitude. We've also taken over this town. Did we get the statements? Done.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0367par0096	Complete.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0366par0097	And against that, we said, as the People's Democratic Party, that this is not always true, that the trip to Afrin could not be expressed as an operation, that the attacks against Northeast Syria had nothing to do with the unity and integrity of Turkey, that it was an invasion and occupation attempt. We'll always be able to say that. And today that problem is still going on. Instead, I'd expect the ruling party to condemn the Enphal massacre and genocide, remember the hundreds of thousands of people who lost their lives on the anniversary. Each day, in a country called my Kurdish brother, this is our Parliament, not just your identity - it was a tragedy to meet this answer. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0367par0099	Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0368par0101	Mr. President, while we have responded to the speech made by the minister from the stand, the Deputy Directors of the Group have made different, different, wrong and false accusations and identifications while they are supposed to be acting on it. See, Operation Olive branch, oil companies, gun barons and interest lobbyes in Northern Syria... who are they? Imperialists.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0369par0102	What did you do with the olive branches? What did you do with the olive branches?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0368par0103	It's our nation's fight against the terror war and the terror formations that are being carried out in that region to ignite the heat of the conflict they want to burn in the Middle East. We know these games from a hundred years ago. In that area, the operation of the Olive branch was carried out, the Firat Shield, Operation of the Fountain of Peace.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0370par0105	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0368par0106	If you look at that geography, you'll find that the Kurds, Arabs, and terrorist organizations that betrayed the Turkmen's peace were expelled from there.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0371par0108	He is the terrorist who calls this state "Imperator" and he is the terrorist who calls the state "Imperator."
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0372par0109	Please...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0368par0110	Just as the oppressed, the Süryans, the Keldanis, the Nasturis, the Jews, the Arabs, the Muslims lived in peace in that geography for centuries, just as this nation's ecclesiastical peace climate was established, this mighty nation will reign over peace and peace again. We will never allow a terrorist organization to be formed there. (AK PART) Yes, the conquests were read behind our arrival, and those who lost their lives arrived in doubt.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0373par0111	Where did you see it?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0368par0112	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0374par0114	You're wrong.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0375par0115	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0376par0116	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0375par0118	Mr. President, as we can see, Mr. Group Vice President didn't give much of a speech today. He's been looking forward to it, and we're looking at a rally talk, as usual. This isn't a rally site.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0377par0119	Now those gun barons, interest lobbying, oil companies, you'll see...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0375par0120	They don't have hundreds of thousands, millions of citizens or their own party members here, there's no need for that kind of propaganda. This is Congress, and we're doing a legislature operation. Like I said, we've discussed this a lot. And when I say that with such enthusiasm, I have to say that we also have the basis of all these views...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0377par0121	We're fighting terrorist organizations that betray Kurds.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0375par0122	I listened to you, I listened to you, so please be respectful.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0377par0123	Don't go anywhere else and expand your position.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0375par0124	Look, I listened to you carefully, listened carefully.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0377par0125	Go somewhere else and expand the position.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0375par0126	I listened carefully.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0377par0127	Our struggle there is with the terrorist organization that betrayed the Kurds.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0375par0128	Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0378par0130	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0375par0131	The world does not honor any of those words, nor does any country they call my allies. From America to Russia, from Russia to Europe, from Europe to Asia to Far East, all countries have condemned the invasion and occupation of Turkey.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0379par0132	He's been operating on terrorist organizations.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0380par0133	He's been operating on terrorist organizations!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0375par0134	Human rights violations there in the United Nations and in the Council of Europe, tortures there, extortions there are on the agenda of the world. Now that there's a pandemic of corona, it's not much of a debate, but we know that very well. There's a Kurdish hostility, a Kurd, if he goes to the North Pole, whether it's in Papua New Guinea, or in space, there's hostility to the Kurd, we know that, we know that!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0381par0136	What does this have to do with the disputed law?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0382par0137	Mr. President, this isn't...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0383par0138	Mr. Özkan, I understand, I understand.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0382par0140	There's no understanding. If in this country, in this country... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Excuse me, fellas.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0384par0143	What's going on?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0385par0144	First, friends in a group...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0382par0145	If in this country, Mehmetjik was there to clean up the terrorist organization that betrayed the peace of Kurds, Arabs, Turks, Turks, and the peace of Turkmen...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0384par0146	There are people there, people!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0382par0147	We don't do party propaganda. Both Europe and the world and the UN have registered our righteous struggle there as well as international law. (HDP rows of noise) But who in Europe has supported this will, this approach? Weapons companies, guns, oil companies, interest lobbys! A hundred years ago, this game was played. We will no longer repeat this game, but we will crush the head of treachery there, by God's leave, and there is no escape.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0386par0149	Group...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0384par0150	Mr. President, I don't feel the need to answer.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0382par0151	We're ready, we're ready. There's no such thing!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0384par0152	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0387par0153	You're being a separatist.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0388par0154	If you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0389par0155	You're gonna make us feel like... There's no such thing.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0388par0156	If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0390par0157	Don't show off from there!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0389par0158	No deals, no deals, no rules.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0388par0159	If you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0391par0161	The separatism here is to give such a speech when one-quarter population of this country is Kurdish. It is they who split it, and it is We who unite it.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0392par0162	Come on, come on, come on!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0391par0163	We are representatives of a party in this country that defends the lives of 82 million citizens together in equal, free conditions. I don't feel the need to answer what he says.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0393par0164	Draw a line between you and terror, curse the terrorist organization, contribute to the union.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0391par0165	Don't let the deputy leader of a ruling party who's after the S-400s, who's making deals with gun companies, come and tell us about the arms dealers.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0393par0166	Gun barons, oil companies, oil in that geography...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0391par0167	We didn't have that kind of relationship with the gun, the S-400, the United States and Russia. They're partners in this!
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0394par0172	Dear friends, I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment to some Laws should be changed by the Supreme Education Law and the amendment of the declaration of the Constitution after it is mentioned in the second joke of Article 8 of the Law. Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu Orhan Çakır Enez Kaplan Fahrettin Yoshüş Bedri Yaşar Arslan Shellukcuoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. This is Mr. Bedri Yaşar of Samsun MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Yasar.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0395par0185	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Of course, I don't know what we mean in this discussion, but if the Veterans' veteran army needs it, he'll go all over the world and do what he has to do. [[BEHIND THE GOOD PARTY (Bravo) The voices, the applause]] Dearly beloved MPs, I hereby offer my condolences to Professor Haydar Başfa, the chairman of the Independent Turkey Party, to Allah's mercy and to his grieving family. Dear lawmakers, when we evaluate Article 8 in terms of general content, we really see it as a law proposal that eliminates and eliminates some of the shortcomings and shortcomings of our higher education institutions. The number of institutes of higher education has been raised to 207, including the number of higher education institutions today; the number is 209, including Ankara University of Science and the University of Zepeli Health and Technology. Of course, while we're counting all of this, we're happy to have a lot of colleges, a lot of colleges in every county, and we don't have the slightest bit of that, but let's not forget that, in addition to the number of students who have graduated, there are about four million of our unemployed today who have also graduated from college. Unfortunately, there are some records of our four universities in the world today that we don't have any; we have 22 universities in the first thousand. We measure the value of universities by their values in the international arena. Again, in the same way, we measure by the number of articles written by university professors in the international arena; how many inventions has he made, how many patents he received? We need to measure the value of our universities with these. Again, we'd like our universities to take the lead with their research, with their contribution to science. And yet, today, when we look at the general population, we want our universities and industry to be intertwined, to meet the needs of the industry, and to contribute to the country going somewhere. For example, how much export do we have in particular about software, how much do we contribute to the world's software? Today, India, as of its location, is one of the world's largest producers in the software market, but unfortunately, we're always complaining about universities, including our President. We're all complaining that he doesn't produce science, he doesn't produce technology. Therefore, investment in the man is the most valuable investment. That's what we need to do for colleges. We need to raise scientists. And because of the Coronavirus, we're all watching scientists today -- we've all surrendered to science, we've surrendered to the Science Council, we're trying to act on the results of the Science Council. We hope that the cures will be found in our country, and the vaccines will be found in our country, and we will export science. In the same way, there's a brain drain in this country, let's get ahead of the brain drain. If possible, we would like our scientists, our professors, to receive a salary from the highest level. Look, guys, we're always bringing it up to the republic, so the first year of the republic, the teacher's salary is one of the highest wages in the Republic of Turkey. So, you remember from that time, the teachers didn't have the slightest amount of income as a salary, but in the last period of time, when we come to these days, when we look at the salaries of scientists and teachers, we see the scale down very low. I suggest that we pay the highest salary to our teachers and scientists who will provide for the future of this nation, the children we entrust to this country, if possible, and that they will not have the slightest difficulty in producing science, in the name of education.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0396par0195	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0395par0196	I'm completing it, Mr. President. In that sense, I would like to say once again on behalf of our group that we are ready to give whatever you bring to the university, research, science, knowledge, all kinds of contributions -- you're in power today, you're in charge, you're in charge, you're in charge, you're in charge, and you're in charge. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0397par0200	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, there are two motions on the 9th article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of the Law Proposal be removed from the proposal text of the 212th and 212th rows of higher education law and the amendment to some Laws. Yıldırım Kaya Murat Emir Turan Aydoğan Tekin Bingöl Süleyman Ülbül Ahmet Akin Alpay Antmen Abdurrahman Tutdere Mahir Polat Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Now, it's Mr Murat Amir, the Ankara MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Emir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0398par0219	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I'd like to use my right to speak on a law clause that aims to prevent violence in the health we're about to discuss. For one thing, the proposal you see in my hand is valuable because it's a text signed by five parties. Therefore, the fact that five parties have supported a very important problem that the medics have been demanding for many years, that our people have needed for many years, is absolutely precious, thank you to each party. However, dear friends, we are not satisfied with this offer, this offer does not please us; it is open to criticism, and this offer needs to be improved. First of all, dear friends, it is only fair that punishments are increased by half, especially in deliberate injury, threats, insults, and failure to do the job. From here, our Assembly and our people give a message to those who threaten the doctor, the nurse, the medic, and those who attack them, that everyone has to help the health workers to respect and do their duty. Dear friends, we would expect a ban on rescinding the sentence. In particular, in terms of many crimes, crimes under two years of threats, insults will go unpunished, and many assailants will take advantage of it; it is upsetting, and I demand that the Assembly correct it. It is imperative that the dismissal of the ruling should not be implemented in terms of healthcare. Another point, friends, is the right to withdraw from the service. Look, in 2013, our House set up a research commission, and that's what's in that commission report, it's all over the world. The doctor attacks the nurse, the medic, but that doctor, that nurse, she has to look at that attacker or near him again. The right to step down is a very fundamental right, and it must be dictated within the law. Another important thing, friends, is a law that is extremely late. We've given hundreds of martyrs to this law. Every year, unfortunately, tens of thousands of medics were attacked. In 2018, in November 2018, in a bag of laws that you brought in, we ran out of feathers. Let's stop the attacks on these medics. Let's take care of all of our medics as Congress; let's take care of our doctor, our nurse, our pharmacist. We said -- again, it was the middle of the night -- you blocked your ears, and then, despite all our efforts, you gave birth to a mountain rat, and there was a very worthless arrangement for us that the statement of the medic who was attacked could only be taken at his own establishment. Therefore, dear friends, it is extremely late. I looked at the statistics before I gave this speech, there was only 10,731 verbal and physical attacks on the paramedics in 2019; that's a huge number. There were sometimes paramedics who lost their lives, and we were late. How did we get to this point today? First of all, these attacks against the medics had increased greatly, and all parts of society had rejected it, and now there was such a wind that it had to protect the medics legally, and in the end, this law had come. I think the struggle of our medics during the Covid-19 epidemic, not only with their lives, but with their families' lives as well as with their lives, has finally been effective in the coming of this law. Therefore, this law is not in our best interest, it is incomplete, but it also means that to some extent it is in order to convey a message to the community that the council has taken care of the medics, the medics today are not unclaimed, and there is certainly a price to pay for attacking and insulting the medics. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'll finish if you'll just promise me one quick thing.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0399par0231	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0398par0232	Of course, we know that violence in health cannot be improved by a law, by increasing punishments. Violence in health is an extremely large and multidimensional problem. There's the educational side, there's the part about organizing healthcare, there's the fact that there's tension in health care environments, there's the fact that it creates violence, and I can't say that I can't say that your political power has a very important effect, especially on medics and doctors. Nevertheless, I thank our coven for this law, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0399par0235	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 9th amendment of the Law Proposal to Some Laws be changed in the form of. Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu Orhan Çakır Enez Kaplan Fahrettin Yoshş Arslan Shellcuoğlu Hüseyin Örs Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Huseyin Örs, Congressman of Tripoli, has a say in the motion. Here you go, Mr. Anres.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0400par0247	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 9th amendment of the proposed law on behalf of the Good PARTI Group. I bid you all first good night, and pay my respects to the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, before I speak, I ask the family, the loved ones, for the mercy of our neighbor from Tripoli, who died in the hospital where he was being treated for Covid-19, and the chairman of the Independent Turkey Party, Professor Haydar Başaş, for the mercy of Cenab; and I ask patience for his family, for his loved ones. Tonight I watched Mr. Health Minister, Fahrettin Big Bey. From tonight's announcements, 1,403 of our citizens have been killed since the beginning of the process. I ask for the mercy of these citizens. I wish to heal our fellow citizens who continue their treatments, and once again, I say we obey the rules of our citizens and continue to stay at home. Dear lawmakers, the relevant clause of the law proposal we are discussing is being changed in the first article (a) of Article 53/F of Law 2547. The amendment changes the way the unit, the disciplinary board, is formed and governed, where the appeals of warnings and reprimands will be issued. We think it would be a good idea to consider the amendment, as there is no relation or similar link between those who are on the board of caution and reprimands gathered and who are leading the investigation and those who are on the main issue of the investigation. But in this way, I'm saying that some of the negatives that are going to come out, at least the suspects will be removed. Dear lawmakers, seven times during the AK PARTI administrations, the Minister of National Education has changed the curriculum of national education 20 times -- a fact we all know -- our universities have been politicalized, academic freedoms destroyed. Political power has interfered in all areas of higher education, and integrity has been ignored in all academic processes, from the appointment of rectors to the recruitment of officers. The main problem with our universities is that they don't have administrative and financial autonomy. I'm saying that if our universities don't get rid of ideological and political pressures, they can't have a modern, scientific and productive structure unless they're governed by an understanding based on merit. Dear lawmakers, we are here today to discuss changes in the Higher Education Law. I'd like to submit a request at this point to the agenda of the High Assembly. Dear friends, the number of people who have had to leave college education in the middle of today's hundreds of thousands is a very serious number in our country. When we look at these students, considering our country's economic difficulties, we often find that the majority of students are affected by economic improbability, health problems, crisis, or forced to leave for family reasons. Our students, who have had to leave universities for economic and social reasons in our country, want to complete their unfinished education, and there are a lot of demands. In all classrooms, including preparation for higher education institutions, including pre-license, licensing, master's degree, PhD, students who have been cut off of their will, those convicted of terrorism, terrorist organizations or those who have been declared to be operating against the national security board should be opened in the 2020-2021 school year, except for those who have been cut off due to their membership in the formation or groups, their immunity or their association with them. Dear friends, as PARTI, we have received a request for student pardon -- a new substance requirement -- for the following conditions mentioned above -- for various conditions and reasons, for our students who have abandoned their education, for example, for the sake of prerequisite, graduates, undergraduates, graduates, PhDs, and PhDs.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0401par0255	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0400par0256	I'm so sorry, Mr. President. Dear friends, finally, come and listen to the voice of our students, and I say not to block the wishes of our hundreds of thousands of students to complete the unfinished university or other universities or higher education or PhD studies, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0401par0259	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, there are three motions on the 10th article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 10 of the Law Proposal 212 be removed from the proposal. Muazzez Orhan Light Züleyha Gülim Tulay Hatim Sons Orç Tuma Çelik Omar Ocalan Nuran Imir Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Şırnak MP Nuran İmir wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Imir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0402par0274	Mr. President, I salute all of you, my fellow congressmen and our esteemed people. First, I cherish and curse hundreds of thousands of people who died in the Enphal genocide. It is also a matter of serious criticism, especially when there is no word in the House about such a genocide that killed hundreds of thousands of people thirty-four years ago. And once again, we've witnessed how sincere and honest a thousand-year-old sisterly literature is. Under Article 10 of this law proposal, the total cost of projects supported by national and international organisations is estimated to be up to 30 per cent. However, statements on which projects to support have not been included as to which committee this should be determined and audited. The uncertainty on this issue must be eliminated, and it is unclear whether the project selection for resource transfer will be made according to objective measurements. In this law, as in any law, you do so, especially without the opinion of the autonomous universities, in the way that you do your job, with the above decisions made by the SEC and the government as a partnership; we're used to it. In the days of Coronavirus, instead of changing the law that requires no urgency, we had to discuss how to train in Turkey during the day of the coronavirus, what we could do about it here. You guys are obviously looking for another opportunity. Society wants life, butcher wants power, opportunism, accountability again. In the districts of Şırnak, where I am Mensubu, 50% of people are poor families. There are at least 3 or 5 students in each house, and with the remote education system given over television, how much of this can be done, how much control can be done, how much of the students can be used from this distance, we need to discuss them.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0403par0279	When was the last time you went to Şırnak?
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0402par0280	I'm in Şırnak every day, you answer for what you did in those Ankara lobbys first. In Kurdish provinces, students who are not educated in their native language are barely able to understand their education in schools. If that is not enough, how productive can remote education at home be? Come, go to the center of Şırnak, go to the center of Şırnak, to Cizre, to Idil, to Silopi, to Uludere, to Beytüşşebap, to what the children want, to what their children want, to find out what their parents want, to find out first, to come here and apply the law. The remote education system reiterates the importance of education in the main language. If the Kurdish main language education system was available in Kurdish provinces today, the remote education system could be much more efficient. But as always, opportunities in education also arise in remote education. Students who don't have a TV at home and who are trained with a tablet will be tested the same day after tomorrow. How fair is that, and we offer it to you. If there is an arrangement for education, you can erase the loans of millions of students, for example, thousands of students whose rights to education have been revoked, and you can issue an economic support package for tens of thousands of graduate students under these conditions. If you have to do something about education, you can start with them. For example, there are a lot of students in other countries who have been appointed to benefit from undergraduate medical students in their senior year because of the coronavirus. You guys do that, that's one of the things you have to do with the coronavirus. But even in this difficult process, you're doing whatever it takes to keep you in power. The overwhelming majority of the opposition MPs who have been here for seven days in the execution regulation law have shouted the same statement, asking for equality in the execution arrangement. This was not just the personal opinion of any of us; it was the request and request of at least 50 per cent of Turkey's citizens; it was the campaigns of dozens of NGOs, the demands and requests of millions of people on social media. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm completing.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0404par0287	Let's complete it, Mr. Imir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0402par0288	Thank you. In this country, it was the will of the people who wanted equality and democracy and cried out, the will of millions of people who wanted justice, but you didn't see any of them, you didn't hear any of them. By the time the 70-point law passed, we all said, "You're leaving people to die, don't." We said, "Don't do it." What did you do? You've passed the 70-point law without changing a single comma; you've signed a great evil under it again; but history has written yesterday, it won't be forgotten, nor will the people forget this day, and remember this day. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0405par0292	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to add and propose that the application of the law shall be added after the declaration of the higher education law and guidance, which is included in the second part of Article 10 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu Orhan Çakır Bedri Yaşar Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. It's Mr. Arslan Shellcuoğlu who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Arlen Shellscuoğlu.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0406par0305	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. Before I begin, I'd like to thank the security forces and all their assistants, especially the Minister of Health and the Health Army, who are struggling with the coronavirus infection. There was one Ataturkist cultist, Mr. Haydar Chief - I remember him with mercy - the coronavirus came and found him. Education is about attitude, skill. In our world, where knowledge doubles in two years, it's an activity that has to go on for life, to apply it to everyday life, to be able to synthesize and analyze information that it has acquired, not a period of time. This activity is not only in the interests of the individual, but also in the interests of the rulers and the imperial forces; it is an activity that goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and If you stop this activity, your opponents will beat you to it. Daron Acemoglu, the main aim of the regimes is to raise a suitable person. For Turkey, the recipe for this is to raise individuals who will accept events and endure them without question, without analytical thought, blindly, blindly. The SEC has been the building that has made universities a door-to-door. Mr. Coral Akşener, our president, we're going to shut down and give their powers to the universities so that the universities can do science. The SEC is an extremely useless and unnecessary institution. Apart from the task of training professional experts who are uploaded to universities and express general understanding in Turkey, universities are science nests where information is first produced, where individuals can produce information through different channels. However, this can happen, the guidance in the production of information depends primarily on providing free thinking for academics playing mentors and the knowledge of academics. Furthermore, the investigations conducted through academics must be integrated into information circulation with out-of-country public institutions, bringing the institutions they are in to standard norms. The only thing the 18-year-old AK PARTY government boasts about colleges is building buildings to 81 universities and increasing the number of universities in quantity. Sadly, our job is to act like one. In our country, we're losing the winnings we had 18 years ago. Our education is getting worse every day. Here are the results of the PISA exams: In 2002, our children were ranked 33, while they were ranked 40 in 2018. Friends, colleges have different rating criteria for success. I'm going to talk to you about the classification of the Times Higher Education. In 2002, we had four universities in the first 500, and in 2019, that number was reduced to two. That's where our colleges come from. The universities are not a place to deal with such things. Besides, there are penal laws in society that regulate them. It's a waste of time and effort to get into colleges and try to keep them in line. The value of universities is.7.5 million students. It's not the value of universities; it's the science they produce, it's the knowledge. In 1996, when our universities ranked 27th in the international broadcast ranking, their reference to the broadcast was 12.3. In 2016, our country rose to the 17th place in the world, but the number of references here dropped to 0.64 per publication, not even one, but a little over half. These are the results of what colleges produce. Congressmans, let's leave the perception management and look at the report card of our universities. That's the report card for our colleges. Let's not kid ourselves. There is a great race in the world that 83 million countries can't achieve development, development, with a few thousand well-trained, educated people abroad. It is not our duty to act as if it were, but to focus on real problems. We need to sweat in the field of education, and our future depends on these efforts. Lititude, justice must be complete. There is nothing in our country today that two young, two children should take the test; one will win, one will win. The winner can't say, "I've won, I've won, I've won."
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0407par0317	Let's get it done, Mr. Shellboy.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0406par0318	And the one who can't win, that's all I know, and I can't win, but I work, and I work, and I struggle, and I win. Such indecency, such injustice, and, by the way, our lost children and the future of the lost country. I give my regards to building a country that sheds children and young people behind their peers in science, not just herself, but the science that it opens, that illuminates the world.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0407par0320	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 212 per cent of Article 10 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws be changed to 25 per cent. Yıldırım Kaya Sibel Özdemir Turan Aydoğan Suleiman Nightingale Mustafa Adıl Albay Antmen Mahir Polat Fikret Şahin Ahmet Akin Serkan Topal Abdurrahman Tutdere Tekin Bingöl Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. He wants to talk about the motion, Mr. Mustafa Adil. Here you go, Mr. Nice Name.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0408par0337	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, the provision brought in with Article 10 is envisioning the transfer of funds to projects supported by institutions in academic studies, as well as providing fees to experts who will make project assessments, which we support. Again, the 10th article prevents additional fees, such as the rector, the vice president, the secretary general, from returning to executives, other than capital, peace rights, management share, counseling, and so on. But I'd also like to point out that there's an injustice in medical schools that needs to be corrected. In medical schools, some of the faculty have the right to a practice, while those who want to open it are blocked by legislation. Events are broken between teachers who do the same job. Many of our valued teachers are forced to accept the attractive offers of the private hospital because of the chasm in between, and the faculty of medical schools is despondent. Since some citizens are unable to examine teachers at universities for special information, teacher-level examinations and treatments, they must be treated with high wages at private hospitals. For these reasons, the Ministry of Health and the PD must stop throwing the ball at each other and resolve it quickly to ensure that the right to a medical school professors, just like their other colleagues, will be granted the right to an office on the off-duty basis. I'd like to make a few important points about the Covid-19 outbreak. The government is not following a proactive struggle that leads to the problem, it is a transparency problem, that is for sure. The measures against information about the epidemic are more likely to be quarantined than anti-contagion measures. In fact, doctors, nurses can't even learn the results of their own patient's test. Guys, the problem is, partner, let's not fool each other, let's make this clear, and then we'll work it out together. Now, I'd like to express the rest as a physician, not as a proxy. Friends, every Covid-19 patient may not have a positive test, even more negative patients than positive ones. I repeat, there are more patients in Covid-19 who are negative than positive ones. Therefore, in the ICD-10 diagnosis code, the World Health Organization wants both to be coded as Covid-19, regardless of whether the test is negative or positive. That's how the world accepts it, and so does our Minister of Health because that's what he's sending. If there are all the symptoms of the disease, if the film, if the CT is correct, even if the test is negative, Covid-19 is considered, so is being treated, and if he's dead, that's how he's being buried. But here's the interesting thing: the Health Minister only explains the number of positive patients, not including negative cases. I don't know why, it's like a matter of umre, like a sports game decision, it might not have its own will, like a curfew. The number of daily deaths in Istanbul alone is more than the figures the minister has explained for all Turkey. Unregistered deaths from many counties are reported by their families. I'm prepared to discuss these matters with the Minister at any time. Let him come up with the data he's got, and we'll draw our own conclusions. For curfew, he's over 60, under 20, and now he's got a weekend app. From now on, let's see what comes next. There's no such thing as a installment, a parcel quarantine; we need to check the entire chain in the epidemic. Look at this table, my friends: The ones with high columns here are between the ages of 20 and 60. You can see that there are fewer cases under the age of 20 and over 60. If we can't come up with a solution between the ages of 20 and 60, it's hard to deal with. I have to say this in particular. One of the faults is the isolation practice at home. Covid-19 patients are being sent home. There's no cure for that. The patient sent home gets five more patients from home, comes to the hospital, sometimes the patient's funeral comes out of the house. Instead, for example, we have 40,000-bed hotels in Istanbul. They won't be today, when will they be? Wouldn't it be better if we reserved 5,000 beds for them, not for their homes, but for them to be sent home, and for them to have a doctor, a nurse? Don't fool people or yourselves about the mask. Pharmaceuticals say they've started the practice, and now there's a message barrier. Don't bother, let the pharmacies give it to you free of charge through the TC number. Don't spare the paramedics on additional payments. Most of the doctors are off-limits to family physicians. In these difficult circumstances, do not disturb people's motivations.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0409par0349	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0408par0350	Paramedics are missing protective masks, so they make their own masks; I can show them to the minister who wants them. Today is Medical Representative's Day, and I congratulate them. In the meantime, even though the hospital and the doctor can't make visits, some pharmaceutical companies, medical reps, are forcing them to visit pharmacies or order by phone. That's not appropriate in the process. There are pensioners who have to stay home because of the age limit, who can't get paid. He's been home for a month because he's got no one. We've identified those who are starving. Some houses have human drama. Let's take care of them with the general administration, the local government, the information and address sharing, the task department -- they're all our people. In Kuwait, the construction site of Limaka-based airport is officially killing workers; sign a document to the workers here that you have given up on the compensation of seniority, the compensation for reporting, and we will send you to Turkey. What conscience would that fit into? I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0410par0356	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, there are three motions on the 11th article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of the Law Proposal be changed in the following way. The following joke is added to Article 8 of Law 11-2547. Teachers who work at social institutes cannot be paid less than the salary and tuition paid at state higher education institutions according to their titles. As part of this joke, payment to the staff shall be taken into consideration according to the legislation on the cost of precedent paid at state higher education institutions. Mahir Polat Tekin Bingöl Sibel Özdemir Ahmet Akin Yıldırım Kaya Alpay Antmen Suleiman Nightingale Turan Aydoğan Serkan Topal Aydın İstanbul Hatay Fikret Şahin Abdurrahman Tutdere Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Now, to talk about the motion, Mr. Libel Özdemir, the Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0411par0375	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, I also made a promise on the 11th article of this law proposal, which has made significant changes in higher education. I salute you. Dear lawmakers, what I have promised you is that professors who work at the Foundation's higher education institutions cannot be paid less than the amount paid at state higher education institutions according to their titles. We see this correction as an important and very delayed clause. As you know, the foundation institutes of higher education in our country began to be established from 1984, especially in the 90s, and its most open process will be the 2000s, and with this bill, there will still be two more foundation universities. About 60 of the 80 foundation universities were founded after 2002. When we look at it, some of our universities in particular discuss very serious problems in some areas, such as the purpose, structure, function, quality, staff, RD infrastructure, financial transparency. In particular, yes, there are almost 27,000 academics at these 78 foundation universities and 606,000 students. They became easier to reach with their numbers growing without planning and speed, while the colleges of the foundation have not yet been assessed by scientific productivity, while some of the universities have been discredited. Due to the quality of being a foundation, almost no study of the transparency of spending pencils has been conducted, and the transparency of how and where they spent was problematic. Last year, the NGO had a very important report on these universities. Well, according to the report, really, these very serious problems have arisen. In particular, the report found that they set up very high budgets for advertising and advertising, many universities without a library, without spending on scientific research, who accept scholarship students in low amounts and proportions. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there are some regulations in this proposal today, even though it has been delayed towards these problems of the foundation universities. In these universities, really, as I said, there were 75 percent increase in 2002, and while they were still being established, very serious legal regulations were needed, international criteria. In particular, however, there were serious problems with education quality, infrastructure, scientific infrastructure, financial and administrative structures. Today, we partly wish that these problems were resolved and that the changes in this law were reflected in real implementation. Before, there were staffs leaving the government, mainly at foundation universities, but now, these universities have their own staff. We have young academics here who are starting to become academics. These scientists' rights, working conditions, have never been discussed; the quotas have been increased rapidly, their unlimited growth has been opened up. Overstudy burdens, working conditions on academics employed on low salaries, were never considered. Mr. Commissioner said today that a new arrangement is being made, a proper arrangement. Here, there's also a limit to the student numbers of counselors, which is a positive correction. Even though he's late, we support the law. But there were shortcomings and situations that we disagreed with, especially the discipline rules that we discussed in detail today. Yes, this law has contributed substantially to academics who work at the university with financial and autonomy rights, but unfortunately, there are problems with discipline. We hope that these problems will be partially corrected and that there will be no real problems with the application. Finally, I would like to say that there has been an arrangement in Article 22 of this law, which we probably won't talk about, but I want to mention. The fact is that professors at foundation colleges have been granted special-marked passports for scientists. I had an offer on the matter of the law -- our esteemed MP, our teacher Ayhan Altıntaş, also had an offer on the law, on what we could do together, and it was added to the motion. It's a big win. (CHP and GOOD PARTY) It has been an important achievement for our teachers to participate in international scientific studies.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0412par0383	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0411par0384	If you'll excuse me, Mr. President, I will. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I know it's late, and I'm taking your patience. Financial and autonomy rights, yes, have been improved, but like I said, there are serious problems with academic and administrative freedoms. There are narrow, vague, subjective substances in disciplinary clauses. These aren't really appropriate for academic discipline. We don't think it's right that the same clause in 657 is in the academic profession because academicism is a very special area, but it's a very different profession from public officials. There's a need for more careful concepts of discipline in that sense. As a result, our greatest hope, as I said, is that this oppressive environment does not create problems and victims in practice. Once again, we support the matter. Indeed, we support the SEC in particular, at the point of quality, at the point of solving problems. And at this point, I'm going to say again that there's more work to be done. I salute you again in the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0413par0390	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 11th amendment of Law Proposal 212 be changed in the following manner. The following joke is added to Article 8 of Law 11-2547. Students who work at the foundation institutes of higher education cannot be paid less than the amount paid at state higher education institutions according to their titles. As part of this joke, payment to the staff shall be taken into consideration according to the legislation on the cost of precedent paid at state higher education institutions. Muazzez Orhan Light Züleyha Gülim Tulay Hatim Sons Orç Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. It's Mr. Omar Ocalan of Şanlıurfa who wants to talk about the motion now. Here you go, Mr. Ocalan.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0414par0405	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly and our people. We know that the AKP has come to power to lift the YÖK, 18 years have passed, and has allowed all of us to experience a holistic devaluation of education along with the concept of DSK and university studentship, the thesis, the written book, the articles. Don't underestimate the inferiority of education, of the university. When education becomes worthless, social values become completely worthless. There's no need to go too far. A curfew was declared in the days of the corona, where our 65-year-old citizens and there, our new generation of young people, unfortunately, went on an old-age hunt and shot various videos. Unfortunately, this reveals the young generations that AKP has raised. This alone is not enough to explain the state of the youth raised by the AKP. The true horror is that this generation, ten to fifteen years from now, will take the lead in this country's administration and academy. Dear lawmakers, the AKP has adopted the use of populist politics as a basic approach rather than a structural solution to problems in each area. During the solution process, Kurdistan Departments were opened at the University of Mus Alparslan -- in the context of the opening of selected Kurdish courses -- Dicle, Bingöl, Mardin Artuklu and Mus Alparslan. More than 1,700 students from around here have graduated. Sadly, after finishing this chapter, the students were not assigned neither to the state institution nor to a different area. Currently available, undergraduates and graduates are almost never assigned to 100 graduates each year. The academics in these chapters have to enter Kurdish articles written by the academics in Turkish, because there is no Kurdish language among them. So now, in Kurdish's Kurmanci and Zazaki dialect, we don't know how many thesis articles are written a year. Another example is Kurmanci from TÜBITAK (TÜBİTAK) and Zazaki-speaking projects are not supported because Kurmanci and Zazaki are not involved in language options. As is known, there was an appointment in January 2020, my friends. At this appointment, two people from Kurdish language were appointed, one from Zazakice, one from Kurmanci. A total of 1,677 appointments were made for Turkish and Turkish Literature. Here's another story of the Kurdish and Turkish brotherhood in Turkey. Dear friends, the number of universities in Turkey, 93 in 2002, has increased to 202 in 2019. In only 17 years, 109 universities were established. Looking at everything and everything he looked at as construction, the AKP built beautiful and fancy buildings with these newly established universities. But it also deprived the inside of these buildings of academic and scientific values. Dear lawmakers, let's look at the state of the universities that have been destroyed by the SEC and AKP, as well as the context of the library and the book. According to the YKK's own report, the number of printed books per student at 104 universities in Turkey is less than 5© per student, and in 4 universities, not a single book per student has fallen. So there are more students in these universities than there are in the book. An example: The number of printed books found in all libraries of the University of Bursa Uludağ, founded in 1975 in the 4th largest city of Turkey, is 225,030, and the number of students per student population is 2.8. In the context of good friends, professors, and academic studies produced, the horror of the painting is much clearer.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0415par0413	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0414par0414	In 17 years, the number of professors in Turkey increased 2.9 times, 2.9 times the number of professors, 3.5 times the number of assistant professors, 3.4 times the number of professors, 1.9 times the number of researchers. However, the scientific and acceptable academic spelling value is becoming less and less. As you know, in the academy, the size of a foreign language is also an important parameter. On February 22, 2018, the foreign language dam for professorship was reduced to 55 points, while one language was entered in the 1973 professorial exam, and the professorship exam was completed in another language. And then there's the peace academic situation, my friends. Peace academics have signed a declaration in this country to ensure peace, no war, no conflict; unfortunately, they brought milk from their mothers' noses, but they have passed through this history as peacemakers. Good luck, everyone.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0416par0418	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the higher education law and the amendment to some laws be changed in the first article of Article 11 of the Law Proposal. Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu Fahrettin Yoshş Arslan Kabukcuoğlu Ayhan Erel Bedri Yaşar Orhan Çakler Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. This is Mr. Ayhan Erel, Aksaray MP, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Erel.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0417par0431	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the great Turkish nation, at the very beginning of my words, I offer my deepest condolences to their family, the Independent Turkish Party and its loved ones, who have not made any concessions in their case, stood upright, bent, and have received the mercy of Hakk. On Article 11 of the Law Proposal for Change in Some Laws by the Higher Education Act, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party, PARTI, and I salute you all. The item we're talking about includes arrangements for the professors who serve at foundation higher education institutions not to charge less than their peers in state higher education institutions. And as an educator, I would like to say that we support this clause, even though it is a delayed arrangement, that will prevent the student's wage differences with the principle of equal wage. Also, the number of lecturers serving at foundation universities would be more appropriate to equalise the hours of teachers teaching at public universities. Dear lawmakers, we see that a large portion of the foundation universities, originally intended to ensure that successful but poor students receive quality education, are away from the institutional goals. Several private universities hold full scholarship rates at around 10 per cent, the legal limit set by the NGO. The foundation that gets out of this is as small as the finger count of one hand. Again, we see that the libraries of these foundation universities are inadequate, and the students do not benefit enough from the libraries. There are only 11 foundations where the number of books per student is more than 10°, which are less than 5 ¡ in 30 universities, some of which are only 1 to 3. In 2018, 13 of the 62 universities in Turkey did not allocate any funds from its own budget to RD. The foundation universities, which have to divide more than 10 per cent of its budget into R&D, failed to comply with that rule, only 3 foundation universities have earmarked RD. Precious lawmakers, because of the problem we face today, our universities are closed, all of our students have gone to their homes, but those who live in private dorms and the houses they rent as students still have to pay for them, both housing and homes. It puts our young students in trouble. Our young ones are looking forward to an emergency arrangement. Again, our government boasts about opening colleges with each of them, but we think that it's a real skill to find jobs for a young person who's graduated from every university, not with every skill, but with a degree in college. Now, we don't understand why our government, with information, savings, technical resources that can plan anything today, doesn't plan for the future of young people. I mean, isn't it possible that today, in ten years, 30 years, 50 years, how many teachers, how many engineers, how many political faculty graduates Turkey needs? And we're opening up colleges with each and every one of us, causing our young people to hang around these universities for four years, five years, and lose their youth. And after we finish college, we can't respond to the demands of our young people who want a job, unfortunately. I wish we could plan what kind of undergraduates we need in what field we need, which is determined, and that college students should be taken according to this plan and brought up. I don't want our students' dreams to go to waste. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0418par0442	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now there are two motions on the 12th article, and I'm reading the first motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 12th amendment of Law Proposal 212 be changed in the following manner. The following joke has been added to Article 9 of the Law No. 12, 2547. Of all students who have studied at the level of a degree, pre-license, bachelor's, thesis and PhD, there are at least 25 per cent students with the highest central placement rating of the relevant programme, who are obliged to receive free education during the duration of the study period of the programme. These students are not required to pay any fee for education and teaching processes. The ranking of the highest placement points in students' programmes is given priority for female candidates in case of a score equality, with a dissertation degree, a Ph.D., and a special talent exam. The procedure and basis for the implementation of this joke are determined by the Higher Education Board. Muazzez Orhan Ilk Zuleyha Gülim Omar Ocalan Tulay Hatimlari Oruç Tuma Çelik Gülışstan Kılıç Koçyiğit Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Gülüstan Kılıç Koçyiğit wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Sword Coachygit.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0419par0458	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. And I want to say that in the 34th year of the Enphal massacre, I respect all those who lost their lives in this massacre, and I want to say that I cursed those who committed this massacre, and that those who committed this massacre were cursed in the history of mankind. Now, of course, we're negotiating a law, a law on higher education, and the first university in our country is actually Darulfun in 1846. It has its ups and downs, but ultimately, in 1933, it is closed by a decision from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and we will actually reform at the university." "I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. But we do know that the reason for the closure of the Darulfun is something that is directed to silence the opposition intellectuals and scientists there, and it's clear and clear that they're actually willing to liquidate their staff in line with a party state policy. Now, after all these years, it's been eighty-seven years, and we're talking about a oppressive law on higher education again, a oppressive arrangement at this time of morning, dear friends. Now, what is higher education? In fact, it's where scientific thought is expressed, where science, intelligence, logic, principles, liberal thinking prevails, but when you look at it, we see that there is no evidence of that thought and that approach in Turkey. Now, what did the AKP say before they came to the government? We will remove the SEC, the universities will be autonomous. Why? Because it was February 28th, and the students in the headscarf couldn't go to college, and with one mind, they were excluding a part of the university, and then the NGO was shutting it out. The AKP came to power, but at one time they carried out this process with the members of the Gulen movement, but later, after they settled in the state, the only man tried to feed his ideology to all institutions of the state, but in the most private, of course, to higher education. You have made the PLO more oppressive, and it is no longer possible to talk about autonomy and science and free thinking in universities today. Now, you made an arrangement in 2017, and you said: let the disciplinary rules of higher education be applied to 657. And this came back from the Constitutional Court, nine months later. Now you're stuck, you're bringing back the law. So, did you really talk to the academy, did you really talk to the partners? No, you didn't. You brought him back with a corona operation, and you're trying to get him out. Now, in the end, we need to express that the arrangement you want to bring is a oppressive arrangement. We can start by expressing a few things. First of all, in your time, you have now removed the 33/a staff as a basic form of staff, as a form of employment, and you are now making assignments over 50/d. What does that mean? In fact, it means that no academic there has job security, that the manager there is exposed to an academic life between his two lips. Let's make this clear and clear. Second, what are you doing with this draft? In Article 19 of the 19th article, you transfer more and more of the return capital revenues of open educational institutions, 80 percent of them to the YOK. That's a violation of the university's autonomy, but you're bringing this. But the most important thing is the one about disciplinary measures, dear friends. With disciplinary measures, you'd actually like to run the universities with a complete restraint policy. You want to dominate AKP ideology; you want to dominate a system that is dishonest, unscientific, unscientific, non-scientific, non-critic, mind-blowing in universities. Now, one or two of these disciplinary sentences... why is a lecturer being disciplined? For example, disrespecting your superior with words during his assignment... What is disrespect? Who's going to measure this? What about the disrespect under the commander? There's nothing about it. To not pay attention to the upbringing of his fellow students, to report against the truth, to not be on duty for three or nine days uninterrupted and uninterrupted. Now, are the teachers satisfied? Is such a mind possible? When will he do research, when will he go to the library, when will he really observe, when will he be in the field? There's nothing about them. You want them to come in the morning and go in the evening. You want them to look like they've done business, so to speak.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0420par0470	Let's do it, Mr. Coachyugit.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0419par0471	In fact, it's clear and clear that you've been separated from a truly qualified university, from scientific thought, by these disciplinary provisions you've imposed. But this is the most striking of these disciplinary provisions, ▪ To whom is this arrangement intended, in fact, to report against the truth? It's for Mr. Onur Hamzaoglu, Mr. Bulent Şık. Why? Because Onur Hamzaoglu was head of the National Science Department of Public Health at Kopeeli University, he did field research in the Kandira and Dilovası, and as a result of these studies he detected heavy metals in the poop of newborn babies and breast milk, explaining this report. What did the people who were supposed to give him a reward do? They sued him, and Mr. Onur Hamzaoglu was tried for it, dear friends. Mr. President, I'd like another moment to finish.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0420par0473	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0419par0474	Secondly, it's--it's--it's-- What did Bulent Şık do? He also took part in an investigation conducted by the Ministry of Health in Antalya, which included the study: The study of environmental factors on human health in Alexei, Antalya, Tekirdağ, Edirne and Centipede. The Ministry of Health did not publish this report; it ignored all environmental factors that threatened public health; it also sued Mr. Bulent Şık for explaining this report, dear friends. So it's not enough that just one university is scientific, it's supposed to be in the community's best interest, it's supposed to be in the public's interest. Otherwise, we know that it was scientists who made the atomic bomb, and scientists who made the nuclear weapons, but they did the worst in human history. So don't go up against scientific knowledge in the interest of society with disciplinary punishments and oppressive methods. I call college freedom, mind, science freedom. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0420par0477	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 12th amendment of Article 12 of the Law Proposal shall be changed in the form of Article 212 of Higher Education Law in which some Laws should be made. Yıldırım Kaya Sibel Özdemir Turan Aydoğan Tekin Bingöl Süleyman Ülbül Ahmet Akin Alpay Antmen Abdurrahman Tutdere Mahir Polat Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. To talk about the motion, Mr. Libel Özdemir, the Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0421par0494	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, I made a promise again on the 12th Amendment. I salute the General Assembly. The previous article was an arrangement for academics at the foundation universities, which is a provision for valuable lawmakers, students at foundation universities. At least 15 per cent of students with the highest placement rating of the programme have been provided by students who have studied in each degree programme -- pre-license, licensing, master's and doctoral programmes -- are expected to receive full scholarships during the course of their studies. Dear lawmakers, there are about 606,000 students at 78 foundation institutes of higher education, and quotas are significantly increased every year. Fortunately, an order of success was introduced by the NGO to prevent this increase in quota and to keep quality at a certain level. It had to be planned and done on time. Why are foundation universities so unplanned, without looking at their infrastructure? When looked at, a large majority of students are naturally paid at these universities, although about 12 per cent of them are granted full scholarships and scholarships at foundations and at certain proportions, according to the 2018 OSI manual data. And while we're on the subject, I'd like to mention that, frankly, every school year before every school year, the tuition fees, as you know, create a great deal of chaos. Uncontrollable student fees are required at the foundation universities. This must be really out of control. There needs to be a serious arrangement here. In a very basic field, such as education fees, a non-politic study must also be carried out, a joint preparation and arrangement. Dear lawmakers, there is serious data in the report 2019 of the Foundation Institutes of Higher Education. According to the current cost average per student, there were about 13,000 student heads in the 2017-2018 school year, while 26 heads of student service at the institute of higher education were below 10,000. According to the amount taken, this amount remains very low. The income from students in most universities does not return to students, unfortunately. So, where do these revenues go? As I said in this year's report, about 220 billion dollars was spent on advertising and advertising; the library's spending is 60 billion, but the most severe of the RD budgets is around 41 billion, so the advertising budget is four times the library spending, five times the RD budget. It's really bad. However, measures should not be taken for advertising and promotion, but also for students -- especially housing, nutrition, social resources, cultural activities -- and most importantly, scientific research, qualified education. Yes, with such distortions, the number of college graduates in our country is growing rapidly every year, so the number of college students is increasing rapidly, but the number of university graduates also increases. According to TÜİK data, at least 3,200,000 of our young population are unemployed but valuable lawmakers, about 2 million of which are unemployed graduates of university. In 2019, he graduated from one of the four unemployed each year. According to European Statistical Institution EUROSTAT (Europe) data, as the level of education increases in European countries, the unemployment rate declines, while in our country, it is the opposite of this painting. Turkey is the only country where the unemployment rate among college graduates is higher than primary school graduates, and I wanted to tell you that. This clearly shows that political power, education, employment, production policies are problematic and can't even create jobs for grown young people. In order to overcome this problem, a planned, strategic, holistic approach must be set up to aim at production-based economies, development and employment policies. The way is through raising qualified young people who are equipped with knowledge and skill, who are closely pursuing the world. A university with her needs to quickly get away from an understanding such as a foundation university to anyone who wants it. In this sense, we hope that the recent residency, quality, quality studies of the ECHR will support this process. Yeah, well, like I said, it's a really positive arrangement for a higher level of scholarship student education here at the foundation colleges. Here, in fact, there is a need to increase the quality of education from student revenues, at the point where the resources of these universities are largely divided into scientific research at a time when science and scientific research really are so vital these days.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0422par0501	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0421par0502	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, and lastly, I would like to point out that this bill will be added to some of the laws that are really too late for violence in health. On this occasion, it's a big, important step that we're actually going to be wearing white ribbons for our paramedics instead of black ribbons, and I'd like to finish my speech today by offering my thanks and thanks to the health workers who are working with a really big sacrifice these days. I salute you, too.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0423par0506	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now there is one motion on the 13th article, and I'm reading the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 13 of Law Proposal 212 be removed from the proposal. Muazzez Orhan Light Züleyha Gülim Tulay Hatim Sons Orç Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. To talk about the motion, Mr. Tulay Hatimlari Orç. Here you are, Mr. Hathimsons, fasting.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0424par0520	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Article 13 is a surrender to the address. To find a legal cover and make it a tradition to intervene through the People's Bank of İstanbul City University, which belongs to the Foundation of Science and Art, and it is said that the scholarships given to students continue to be paid to garantor universities, not to students, but to capital again, not to be protected here. Look, in the economic precaution package that was announced during the battle against the coronavirus, it was intended to save capital again. There was a campaign that the students had started for a long time, the removal of their KYK debts. And now that this is one of the things that was essential in the days of the coronavirus, it's never been brought up by power in any way. Yes, the law that should be here is basically the removal of the NGO. Because the ECHR was the product of the coup on September 12th, and today those who fought active in AKP have fought because they have suffered so much, and in that sense the progressive, democratic, and intellectual have also received the support of the intellectual communities. But after the power was taken, the same thing continued. See, the NGO is an obstacle to the creation of science, a free academy and autonomous science of universities; it allows military junta logic, the science of militant mentality, to determine and surround the academy. The NGO surrounds the academic and establishes authority over the student. Now, instead of making a change in the 212 rows of the Higher Education Law, which we're currently meeting, the Proposal, instead of making a change in it, adds a little bit more. You came to power because of democratic expansion. Of course, when you weren't in power, YAK was a criticism for you. And now that we're looking at it, you're doing everything you can to get over it, so don't get too bossy. In order to raise a submissive generation, you've done things that have changed education over and over again from kindergarten. Over and over, the curriculum has changed, over and over again, the education system has changed, the exam system has changed, but since you can't get it right, you continue to play with that change and actually with science, with reason. You're dealing with science, biology, chemistry, mathematics, almost an enemy of yours, you're dealing with the theory of evolution, you're doing jobs that pave the way for harvesters. Look, the proud, democratic academics, researchers of this country were involved in a campaign, and at a time when the war continued and the violence continued, they said: "We will not be a party to this crime. I would like to read a sentence from the text they signed: for the Kurdish citizens and for all the people there, we are opposed to violence by using heavy weapons in Sur But what was done? These were exported through the KHK. He was expelled from the academy with the KHKs who opened his mouth, and thus were forced to pledge their laborers with hunger, poverty, unemployment, dishonoration, but they did not pledge, and they continued to resist. Yes, in the 21st century, when such interference in science took place, I think of Hypatia, who I saw in the film. In the 4th century, Hypatia, who studied mathematics in Alexandria, who studied philosophy, did not hesitate to express her ideas in the most obvious way despite all the pressures. Soter, general of Alexander the Great, comes to Alexandria and declares himself Firuvun, and uses religion for political purposes, I am almost the caliph of God on earth. He begins to intervene in the progressive currents of Alexandria and the Alexandrian school.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0425par0529	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0424par0530	They say that women need to learn silence and mildness. We can never let her teach a lesson or have authority over a man or anyone. She will be silent, and she will remain silent. After these explanations, a crowd will torture Hypatia. In the 20th century, Hitler made a similar example of the children, the church, the kitchen. Now, in the 21st century, the AKP has taken no different steps. But we must know that in fact, the pharaohs of history have judged Hitler. In the same way, history will judge science, freedom of thought, freedom of expression, and those who try to capture it. Hypatia doesn't end in this country and in the world.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0426par0533	Mr. President, we object to all the baseless allegations that the criminal has made. I'd like to record it. I'd like to report that we've refused. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0427par0535	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0428par0536	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0427par0539	Mr. President, I would also like to say that there has been a speech not filled with baseless allegations, but with names from history, references. Therefore, we reject the rejection.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit05spe0428par0543	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are no motions on the 14th article. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are no motions on the 15th article. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The votes of the substances in the first section are complete. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0428par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 85th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 212. The commission is in place. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second chapter covers the 16th to 30th article. Mr. Ismail Tastüoğlu on behalf of the PARTI Group, who wants to speak on the second chapter. Here you go, Mr. Tastyoglu.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0429par0009	Mr. President, members of our House, at this hour of the night, we would like to briefly share our thoughts on the second chapter. Really, it's a 30-point law proposal on universities, and we've said that we've seen a lot of it in both the Commission and the General Assembly. We have a serious objection to the 7th article alone, and there are amendment proposals on the 16th and 22nd article. We also had a request for a pre-license degree, a master's degree, a reverse pardon, and they were specifically not approved by the AK PARTI. Now, when I listen to Mr. Orhan Atalay, who made this offer, I really agree with all my feelings for seven and a half minutes of his speech, and we really approve of this conversation. Mr. Atalay spoke of the presence of civilizations, ancient Greece, Baghdad, Austria, in the 11th century. Of course, here, Samarkand and Maveraunnehir have forgotten, as if Samarkand and Maveraunnehir were not a civilization in the Islamic world. He talked about Western civilization in the last three centuries, and he said something beautiful, and he said something in the mother lode, and he said, "The central center of civilization is science, and it needs to be able to do that. What are these possibilities? Freedom is autonomy. It's true. But, dear friends, this offer is the opposite. This proposal makes the disciplinary legislation in Article 7 of Article 657 of the State of the United States holy to the university. So we've committed a law clause to turn our universities into a deed office, which is the 7th Amendment. He calls his superiors to show respect. If he shows no respect, he is guilty of disciplinary action. I'm a friend of yours who's been a college student for thirty-five, thirty-six years, and colleges don't have seniors. Colleges have faculty members, faculty boards, boards of directors, co-ordinator managers, and the university has no problem with respect, not until now, anyway. But we bring such disciplinary punishments to our appointed staff, to the dean, to the chancellor, to suppress the precious professors we describe as their underlings. This does not make the university autonomous; this does not make the university free; this does not make it the fields in which the philosophy of science will flourish, as Mr. Atalay puts it, but it does the opposite, reduces the university, devalues the university, and the main problem is that in our universities today, the universities have become a mechanism that can't even plan human capital, and it has become a waste of our five capital. So when we look at the university, there's no production to feed the public, not even the state. I want to finish my speech by giving a very simple example. He just had a review of Libya, and we called our universities in the framework of these thesis talks, and we said, "What kind of work do colleges have on Libya, so let's take advantage of it and make a right decision." Believe me, we found universities very poor. Universitys should not be shaped according to politics, according to the authorities. It's been like this before, it's been like this during the cold war, it's been like that since February 28th, but it's going deeper today, and finally, we're really going to have a very serious drop in funding from national income to our universities. We need to support our universities in that sense. My respects to all of you, and good night.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0430par0015	The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are 1 motions on the 16th article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 16 of Law Proposal 212 be removed from the proposal. Muazzez Orhan Ikım Ömer Ocalan Abdullah Koç Tuma Steel Züleyha Gülim Tulay Hatimlari Orç Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. He's about to make his speeches, Mr. Abdullah Coach. Here you go, Mr. Coach.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0431par0029	Mr. President, before I begin my remarks, more than 180,000 people were killed in the genocide against the Kurds by the Saddam regime thirty-four years ago; we strongly condemn the Enfal genocide, we will not forget it, and we will not forget it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we are discussing universities and scientific institutions at this time of day. Of course, there are positive regulations, but unfortunately we all see together how troubled the scientific institutions present in Turkey are, how troubled they are. Look, I'd like to continue with one of Marx's words. Finally, when everything that was an integral part of man was a matter of shopping and negotiating. This is a time when things like virtue, emotion, conviction, knowledge and consciousness, which have changed hands until then, but are not the subject of trade, are also the subject of trade. In a word, it's all about business. This is the period of general dissension and universal scale shopping. If I may put it in terms of economic terms, this is a time when everything, whether material or spiritual, is brought to the market to determine its true value." Says Karl Marx. Look, can you call human and society a scientific institution that is alienating its problems? Is there any way to talk about a science, a science institution, that doesn't question the facts, that doesn't question the processes, that's weak against political power? Can a non-independent institution produce science in the face of state and capital? Civilization is the common heritage of people who can make history, but the official ideology is an emptying state of scientific, intellectual activity. It is the universities that have entered the grip of official ideology, and unfortunately, it is the YOK itself. The existence of freedom of expression is a basic requirement for producing science. Freedom of expression in the production of science is such a fundamental condition. Although freedom of speech is a fundamental condition for science, there is no such thing as freedom of expression in universities in Turkey because it is the institutions that are adjusted according to the requirements of formal ideology. There's no point in university autonomy limiting freedom of expression. The Board of Higher Education is a political institution in which the government, the government, is in an institution that delivers the directives of the current political power to universities. The NGO has single-typed universities, removed them from science, destroyed their academic freedom, put pressure on scientists and students, even obstructing scientific research because of various illicit understandings. The SEC must now be removed and replaced by an academic quality institution for opening, functioning, and running universities. This institution should also be a controlling institution that does not interfere with what universities should do. In this new system, universities should be given a budget based on quality, efficiency performance, and this budget should be shared as a positive competition between universities. The university's expertise in certain areas must also be made immediately, and in this regard, the YOC must be eliminated from its right to the universities, creating a field of free science. Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0432par0038	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, there are no motions in Article 17. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are no motions in Article 18. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are no motions in Article 19. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are no motions in Article 20. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are no motions in Article 21. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. I'm going to read the motion and ask the Commission, and if the Commission joins the motion in the majority, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause, and if the Commission simply disagrees, I will remove the motion from the process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added after Article 21 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws and 212 of Higher Education Laws, which are currently in session, and that the following articles be sorted according to this. The following temporary clause is added to Law 22-2547. In all classes, including preparation for the 81-High School institutes, the prerequisite, undergraduate completion, licensing, grad schooling, the students can begin their studies in 2020-2021 schools, on the condition that they apply to the higher education institution of the Law within eight months of the day of the application of this substance, including those who have been cut off from its will, for whatever reason. The drafts of those who apply for military service are now officially suspended. If those who serve as soldiers on the day of the application of this clause apply to the relevant institute of higher education within two months of their discharges, they are entitled to the rights specified in this article. Those who have registered at the institute of higher education, where they have been separated from the provisions of this clause, and have documented that their employment or residence is in another province, can move horizontally to the equivalent degree programmes at universities in which they reside, provided they provide the base score of the degree programme he wants to pass as of the year of admission to the university and the senates of the higher education institutions in the province in which they reside. If students gain student status at an institute of higher education and benefit from this clause, they can move horizontally to the level of open education from Anadolu University, Ataturk University and İstanbul University. The Higher Education Board is in charge of determining the procedures and foundations for the implementation of this clause. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general? We don't have a majority, Mr. President. Since the commission did not agree with the motion in the majority, I'm dismissing the motion from the process. Now, there are no motions on Article 22. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Article 23, no motions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Article 24, no motion. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Article 25, no motion. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Article 26, no motion. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Article 27, no motion. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. According to the decree of Article 87 of the Civil Code, new amendment proposals, which bring additional and change in the law, which is not the subject of the proposed proposal, cannot be processed. Now, I'm going to take the motion for the new clause violation that we're going to read, which is incompatible with the ruling above, but not to set a precedent, considering the agreement of the five political parties and the importance of the issue. I'm going to read the motion and ask the Commission, and if the Commission joins the motion in the majority, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause, and if the Commission simply disagrees, I will remove the motion from the process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply the following clause to the current Law Proposal 212 rows and other substances to be identified accordingly. Bornt Turan Mohammed Levent Bulbül Meral Danış Beştaş Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu Engin Özkoç The following joke and the following joke was added to the following, after the first joke of Article 3359 of Health Services Number 28 - 7/5/1987 and Article 12 of the Basic Law. In the crimes of the public or private health services staff and assistant health staff, the intentional injury of Turkish Penal Code No. 5237 (Madde 86), the threat (Madde 106), the defamation (Madde 125), and resistance to failure to perform the duty (Made 265); A) According to relevant substances, punishments will be increased by half. B) A stay of prison sentence held in Article 51 of the Turkish Penal Code does not apply. "In the health institution and institution where violence occurs, there are other health staff and assistant staff who can provide the services provided by the perpetrator or near by the victim. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general? There's only a majority of us, Mr. President, just a lot of us. Since the commission has only participated in the motion so often, I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new clause. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Muş MP Gülüstan Kılıç Koçyiğit. Here you go, Mr. Sword Coachygit.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0433par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're interviewing a very important item right now. In particular, a consensus was made in the day of the corona that the public's expectation was to resolve the issue known as health violence in the community, where its eyes were in parliament. Of course, it's important and meaningful to have this compromise; we're taking a step forward on something important, but we also have to express that our proposal, at least our proposals, have not been fulfilled. In this sense, especially in the proposal text, there were things that the Turkish Medical Corps suggested, and they were unable to live, but let's say that we still see the proposal as positive. Now, first of all, I'd like to make a few basic assessments before I come to the proposal. Now, dear friends, you may remember, we talked about health violence at the Health Commission a very short time ago, but we had to focus on violence in health, mainly there, but the fact that graduate physicians are actually stuck in safety investigations, because there was actually a security approach under the violence view of health. Fortunately, he didn't exactly leave the House. However, we need to see that the phenomenon of violence in health ultimately has social, social, economic reasons. If there is poverty in a society today, if there is no tax justice in a society, if there is no pay justice in a society; if authorities embrace the language of violence every day, if power adopts the language of violence, it is actually one of the factors that promote violence in health. However, we need to basically say that the transformation of the health that AKP took into existence in 2003 is actually the basis of today's violence. What did the AKP do? Here we finish the tails, no more SGK tails. Now everyone will go to the hospital they want, take medicine from the pharmacy they want. He said so, but, in fact, he's purged the public health system in this country. What did he do? He removed the clinics, removed the regional arrangements, brought in the practice of family medicine, brought in the SSGSS, and eventually the hospitals returned to run the hospital, the patients returned to the client. In response, the principle was adopted: "Our customer is our benefactor. " For him, we must always consider the customer's right and always please the customer. Of course, not only that, but at the same time, every day, the sentences that actually discredited physicians, health workers were expressed by the rulers of this government, who were responsible. For example, I'll tell you a few things: we've reformed health. You said, "You've brought this propaganda forward," but you said: "We're going to employ a doctor who doesn't work." We'll get rid of the knife money. We'll take the doctor's hand out of the patient's pocket. I don't give a doctor a shot. Doctors paralyze him. The period of the Doctor is over. Your language and rhetoric, in fact, has raised violence in health, legitimized it, and has led society to believe this violence. In this sense, we need to tell you firsthand that AKP's health policies are behind today's violence. Yeah, the numbers are really high. To give you a number or two, for example, when you looked at the data sent by the Ministry of Health in the history of 2019, there were 15,841 cases, including 11.204 cases, dear friends who moved to the judiciary, these are not ordinary numbers, these are very high. Again, the Department of Health has an ALO violent hotline, you know, 113. The code here is that from May 2012 to August 2019, 91,355 cases of violence have been reported, and these are actually very high numbers. In 2017, health violence increased 168 per cent, see 168 per cent. These are very high rates. Now, of course, the AKP has broken down the most basic structure. What was it? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I will, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0434par0110	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0433par0111	He disbanded Turkey's really regional-based health care, and instead -- as I just said -- he placed a health care system that was abandoned to market conditions, left at the mercy of the market. Every time the public can't get health care in this health care system, they actually go and take it out on the health worker, the health worker. So today, when you go to a hospital, you get a physical one day, you go to a second week, you get an ultrasound, you get a third-week CT, you get diagnosed and treated a month later, and in all this time, our people, of course, go and direct that negative energy to the health worker. Finally, I want to say that all of this is the result of your policies, but fortunately today, you're taking a step forward to correct it, and in this sense, we really appreciate your search for partnership and your effort to make partner, and in this sense, I wish you'd at least bring up this partnership in future law proposals. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I will, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0435par0115	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0433par0116	Now, as for the part where the TTB wants to enter into this proposal, I will read the proposal directly, dear friends: The victim of violence is entitled to withdraw from giving health care to the perpetrator or to nearby health care, even if the health care provider is in a position to provide health care services. Apart from emergencies, the perpetrator or relative may be directed to receive health care at the same institution or to another health care provider. It's a very proper assessment, of course, and the exception is that it's only an emergency; in this sense, I want to rephrase that we want this to be legalized. I wish this law to reduce violence in health and bring health workers, health workers, to a more peaceful, happy working environment.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0435par0119	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Ali Şeker. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0436par0122	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I want to explain the importance of this law, which has been drafted by the joint agreement of five parties. We've had many requests for compromises for a long time, but we've been able to agree on that. It's an important step, even if we don't get enough results that we want, and I want to thank all of my fellow lawmakers who've been working on it. [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] The most important issue of this legislation is that the healthcare worker, the people who work at the health centre, if the crime is committed against the pharmacists, the fines will be increased by 51 per cent, which is very important. Dr. Göksel Kalaycı, Dr. Ali Menekşe, Dr. Ersin Arslan, Dr. Melike Erdem, Dr. Aynur Dağdemir, Dr. Kamil Furtun, Dr. Huseyin, Dr. Fikret Hajiosman and Dr. Kaan Erol. By the way, I'd like to honor the precious health workers who lost their lives in the Covid epidemic once again. Those health workers added their nights to their day, leaving such a mark on their faces - masks and glasses that left such a deep mark on their faces as a result of their work day and night. Unfortunately, the paramedics are exposed to violence while they're trying to bring their night into the day, to make people healthy, to do them good. And this violence is something that only five hundred and fifty-eight days after I proposed this law, there was about 30,000 White Code apps, and there were about 30,000 paramedics who applied to White Code because of violence to the paramedics. I hope that in the wake of these increasing punishments, people will no longer raise their hands to the health workers who are trying to heal themselves, and if they do, they will know that there will be a serious return. I hope they'll be more careful with the medics and the pharmacists and the healing angels. You know, along with the policy of transformation in health, those who can't access health care have seen anyone in health -- a physician, a nurse, a pharmacist -- unfortunately, they have inflicted violence on him, and as a result, we have hundreds of health workers who have been injured and thousands of others who have been subjected to violence. The contrast in the name of the White Code created a black table, and in 2013, the average 29 people applied to the White Code, while the average 51 health workers were forced to apply to the White Code in 2019. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to thank you all once again for presenting this gift to the health workers who are struggling with the pandemic. They needed it because it was a very difficult struggle and a long struggle, and in this struggle, the Minister of Health said they wanted something more than a round of applause from us. It has been given to Parliament to carry out this mission. Hopefully, we'll be able to do what we find missing and meet him in the future. We said: "Alice does not protect, it protects the law. From now on, it falls to the judges to protect it, and by doing so, they will serve to protect the right of health for the people. " [[Applause from CHP rows]] They don't just attack the medic, they prevent the healer from curing the people he heals, and the violence against physicians causes the physician to take what we call defensive action to protect him. That actually prevents the public from getting the health care they want. Once the physician tries to protect himself, the doctor who doesn't take risks can't give his people enough health care. And that's what we're doing in the process. Here I thank them for the work of the TTB, the Association of Turkish Nurses, the Union of Turkish Pharmaceuticals and trade unions and all the other contributors, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0437par0135	Complete it, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0436par0136	In the meantime, I would like you to give a round of applause to all health workers in intensive care throughout the country, emergency services, who are struggling with Covid's disease. (Applause) Let us no longer see such violent health workers in this country. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0437par0139	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Bkent Turan of Çanakkale. Here they are, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0438par0142	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today, we have been able to present the law proposal of more than 1,100,000 health workers, who have long been waiting for public opinion, who have sacrificed their lives for our lives, to our House with the signatures of our parties, the Deputy Directors of Groups. We know that punishment alone is not a step that prevents crime. We all know how many crimes there are in many countries with capital punishments. But we've come up with an understanding that encourages special arrangements, especially in our criminal policy. Of course, any profession is valuable. All violence is evil against whomever it is against. The rule is that all arrangements are equal to everyone. In the theory of the law, we call it the balancing justice. However, there's a different theory that allows us to be a more just state, which evaluates the perpetrator and the victim's personal situation. Therefore, more than equality, what a fair state will do is, in special cases, special expectations, special problems are revised by special substances. Earlier, similar insights have been taken in many cases, such as violence in sports, violence against women. Otherwise, we know that if you dig up a criminal, you'll find a human being. The claim is a reality. So, while we were preparing this proposal, we tried to make this offer, not just by our medics, but by meeting not only with members of our Justice Department, but with all the relevant ones, by putting together all the theories in the form of criminology, penology, victimology, science. There were many sides, but we were proud to bring this text to life, which all sides would agree to. Of course, there's a reality ahead of us, a global problem the whole world is fighting. Our paramedics are at the front of that problem. In fact, we have paramedics who sacrifice their lives for this nation, for our people. On this occasion, I wish them all God's mercy. I hope those of us who are sick find a cure. It's about similar issues that took different steps in the earlier years, in 2011, in 2018. For our healthcare providers, there have been considerable opportunities for legal aid, public access to private health services, and the opportunity for testimony at work. However, the fact that violence is still on our agenda from time to time, the fact that this important problem in the world also exists in our country has led us back to the discussion. According to this proposal, all of our medics will now deal with this material, no matter what the public-private distinction, even more, the pharmacy, the dentist's own private practice, the doctor's own private place of work. Not just doctors, but dentists, midwifes, physical therapists, psychiatrists, dieticians, pharmacists in Law 6197, nurse assistants, health technicians, all of whom will be responsible for this law. When we look at this law, we go to a 50 percent increase in intent on injury, threats, insults, and resisting arrest. There was already a 50 per cent increase due to the evaluation of our health workers as public personnel, and now, with an additional 50 per cent increase, different implementation of the fines, more severe implementation is on the agenda. Again, for our health workers, these crimes are also decided to not delay the prison sentence, so that there will be no punishment when it comes to these sentences. Another clause gives our health worker the right to withdraw if there is a relationship between our health worker and the perpetrator, if there is a relationship between the victim and the perpetrator. I mean, if there's ever been an altercation between that perp and that health worker, it gives our health worker the right to withdraw if there's anyone else doing the same job.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0439par0151	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0438par0152	He's been given the right to withdraw. So all of our parties, all of the five parties, had different views, all of them had a more advanced view of this law. Let's make it more deficient. Let's make it different. Our own friends have had similar and different suggestions. Our entire Ministry staff, especially our Minister of Health, may have had more, more expectations. But once again, it wasn't an easy task to establish the system of punishment, to take the basis of equality, the understanding of justice, the opinion of all ministries, to reconcile in a common text. I hope that once this proposal is legalized, we will no longer have violence on our agenda against health workers, and we will never talk about this again. But I just want to say one more thing: if there's any more need, we'll have five more parties, and if there's any loose ends, we'll work it out together. I think this law will satisfy an important deficit under these circumstances, which will meet an important expectation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, just a minute...
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0440par0157	Let's salute, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0438par0158	Mr. President, it's 3:00 a.m. right now. All of our party's deputies are here. We're working overtime to solve this problem with great sacrifice. I thank each and every one of our political parties who signed with all the Group Vice Presidents today, especially when we started the proposal together. Again, I ask God's mercy on our doctors, nurses, and health workers who have lost their lives in this struggle. Again, I wish immediate healing for the sick ones of our health workers. I hereby salute all of our medical staff and our Veterans Assembly again, and wish you a good evening.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0441par0163	Now, I'm going to make a promise to the Deputy Director of the 2 Group. Mr. Dervisoglu. Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu. Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I congratulate the esteemed MPs of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on the performances and mutual goodwill of the day we left behind. I'm saying we've left a hard day behind, but we're on the eve of legalizing a very comprehensive law proposal. In this scope, we have unitedly brought the proposal of the law to increase the punishment of violence against health workers to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. So when the right things are done, it's also possible to make decisions by hand, by cooperation, by heart. In this respect, congratulations to the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation. So far, we've applauded the paramedics. All political parties had already submitted motions on the issue. We also proved that Turkey's main issues were claimed by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In this respect, the Turkish Grand National Assembly deserves a round of applause for its support for health workers. I salute the General Assembly. I wish this law to be a blessing, not abused, not abused, and I repeat: God will always keep us at the point of making the right decisions, so that we may maintain our good intentions. My respects, sir. [[GOOD PARTY, AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] Deputy President of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Nightingale, please welcome.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0442par0176	Thank you. Mr. President, in the interest of preventing violence in health, we wish you the best of the arrangement that we've added to the RD Law as a result of the consensus of the party groups. I'd like to express that we've been at the mercy of the paramedics who have died of the violence that the paramedics have been subjected to so far. In particular, in the epidemic we're experiencing, we pray that the violence that our dedicated health workers deal with will come to an end. The point is that violence will not be able to end in a situation where public awareness cannot be provided. In this regard, I would also like to say that we need to focus on the causes that cause violence in society and especially in health. However, with the arrangement brought in, we hope, there will be no shortage of deterrents in our legislation. Without a public-private distinction, I'd like to say that all health care staff, pharmacists, dentists, are within the scope of this arrangement. I would like to express my gratitude, especially to our Health Minister, our Health Ministry staff, and to our health army, who have been fighting against the issue throughout Turkey, especially during the Covid-19 epidemic. Such arrangements, of course, should be considered at all times, not at this particular time. But under the precision of this period, what they need, under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I would like to say once again that we will make every effort in their needs, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0443par0182	Deputy President of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Danış Beştaş. Here you go, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0444par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. And I would like to first honor all the health workers who have died due to the Covid-19 epidemic and have previously lost their lives due to the prevalence of health violence, and I would like to offer my condolences to all their families, to their relatives, on this occasion. Yes, today is actually the first time in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in a very long time that five parties have co-signed a law and a joint acceptance. It's actually kind of a historical moment. I would also like to express my wish that these historic moments should continue for the future of citizens of Turkey. Because the main goal of all of us is to establish democratic laws in Turkey, laws that anyone can benefit from. Yes, the health workers' place is of course very special. In this outbreak of Covid-19, we all felt it very close, felt it in us. We always said: "Applause is not enough. " Surely we should applaud, but rather than clapping, we have a duty to protect them, to make it easier for them to serve. Of course, on this occasion, I'd like to say that this law is very important, but it's not enough now alone, that there's a need for fundamental health reform, and that we're ready to make legal arrangements for it. We need to stop health from being a business service, all of us. And lastly, I'd like to say that as the People's Democratic Party, we've had a lot of proposals for research to get a law on violence in health, but, let's just say, today's the day. I wish we could get this out before the Covid-19 outbreak, but it's important that we get it out today. On this occasion, I would like to thank all of our medics, who have offered their lives for the health of the people, day and night. And I'd like to thank all the groups for their hard work.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0445par0192	Vice President of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Engin Ozkoc, please.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0446par0194	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, the view here today of the Republic of Turkey's Grand National Assembly of Turkey is an example of the world observing us, not us. When it comes to citizens of the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Turkey, how do we get together when it really is our people, not just to Turkey, but to the world as an example, and this will always continue, in every way. We want the whole world to see this. The second issue was that health workers were struggling to save lives while their lives were threatened. In this regard, the General Assembly made a joint decision and passed this law so that they could perform their next tasks in a healthy manner. Even in your own family, all the MPs here have been fighting together to get the laws that the Republic of Turkey needs. And I consider that very important for the Turkish nation to see. In this law, the names of the members of the group were counted, and the heart would wish that we could name all of our MPs, and declare them, but without distinction, our friends from every political party here, our medical friend, they fought a great battle. Ismail Tamer, Arife Polet Sagittarius, Recep Şeker, Burhanettin Bulut, Ali Şeker, Murat Emir, Servet Ünsal, Gülstan Kılıç Koçyiğit, Selim Gültekin, Mustafa Open-Eye also record our friends and all those who have taken this decision and contributed to it, and I salute the High Assembly with my confidence that this country will give messages of greater unity and social peace.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0447par0199	Vice President of Justice and Development Party Group Mr. Akbasoglu. Here they are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0448par0202	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, of course, when it comes to health, we think of the lines of Sultan Suleiman of the Law: there is no viable object in the public like a state/like a breath of health in the state jihad. Yes, we all signed an important arrangement today regarding the health army, which has worked so hard in one breath of health in our soul, to continue in our bodies. I wish him good luck and good luck. Hopefully, soon, along with changes to the Higher Education Law, we will be able to implement a law called the Law of Violence in Health, which our medical brothers, our health army, have been waiting for. With this occasion, of course, we've been able to observe how selflessly these brothers work together in connection with the outbreak of coronavirus, Covid-19. I hereby pray for the mercy and forgiveness of all our citizens, especially our doctors, health workers, who died from the coronavirus, to all of our sick health army and citizens. On this occasion, I would like to extend my thanks to all our parties, Mr. Presidents of the Group, and to all our members of the Parliament, who have performed a fine performance of 31 articles in one day, as a result of a day's intensive work on the law proposal on healthcare workers, and to you, Mr. President, to all our parties, with respect.
tbmm-2020-04-14sit06spe0449par0209	[[AK PARTY, CHP, MHP and GOOD PARTY welcome]] I submit the new item to your votes: those who do not accept... the new clause has been accepted and a new clause has been added to the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Business. Thank you, Mr. President. As we discuss the Higher Education Act here today, we have been blessed to sign a fine service together. On behalf of the National Education Commission, we have contributed to this clause violation here with members of the Commission from all parties. I pray to the workers of this health that this substance that we have passed against violence should be good. All of our doctors who died of violence on this occasion were just mentioned here - I ask God's mercy. With Covid, the world has been fighting lately, our health army in our country has been working really hard. I congratulate all our doctors here, and I ask God to help them. I wish our nurses, our health workers, good luck in this fight. May God have mercy on the doctors we lost in this struggle. For those whose tests are positive, for our medics who are being treated, I wish for immediate healing. Again, I wish this arrangement to be a blessing, and I thank you for your contribution. [[AK PARTY, CHP and GOOD PARTY welcome]] In order not to cause any confusion, the motion operations on matter will then be continued through the number of items in the current number of rows in the text, which will be identified in the matter numbers during the drafting of the law. There are no motions on Article 28. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are no motions on Article 29. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are no motions on Article 30. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. Members of parliament, the full vote of the proposal is subject to an open vote. In the second joke of Article 145 of the Civil Code, the president may be released to the end of the open voting session or to a specific day of the week, if necessary. Under this verdict, the entire proposal was given an open vote Wednesday (April 15th 2020). An open vote will be held on the agenda's part of the proposal. Since there is no further topic on our agenda, I will close the meeting Wednesday (April 15th 2020) to discuss law proposals and other commissions in order.
