tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2021-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2019 Central Management Computing Law Proposal. Under the schedule, we'll be negotiating in the fifth round today. The fifth round includes the Health Ministry, Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate, Turkey's Medicine and Medicine Institute, the Ministry of Health Institutes of Turkey, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, the Interior Ministry, Security Directorate, the General Command of the Police, the Coast Guard Command, the Executive Board of Immigration, Afet and Emergency Management budgets and final accounts. 1 Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Health Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1 Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account CIRKEY MEDICINE AND TIBI TERRIBLE BUILDING 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices' Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Board Final Account for Central Management in 2019 THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITUTIONS 1) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The Interior Ministry's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) Police General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Gendarme General Command 2019 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Coast Guard Command 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister for Disaster and Emergency Management 2019 Central Management Final Account Commission? He's in position. According to the decision taken, talks on the tour will be made to the political party groups and to be able to conduct their opinions in accordance with Article 62 of the Interior Charter, which can be used by more than one speaker, and the duration of the talks on behalf of the individual will be five minutes each. Also, when the talks are completed, the question-answer process will be done in ten minutes for questions, ten minutes for answers, and questions will be asked without justification. It's for your information. In the fifth round, I read the names of political party groups, executive and individuals, respectively: On behalf of the Good PARTI Group: Abdul Ahat Andican, Arslan Kabukcuoğlu, Metin Ergun, Behic Çelik, Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group: Sefer Aycan, Ali Muhittin Taşdoğan, Hayati Arkaz, Sadir Durmaz, Sermet Atay, Umit Yilmaz. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group: Habip Abshort, Semra Güzel, Oya Ersoy, Milık Taş, Mehmet Rüşt Tiryaki, Diryet Dilan Taşdemir, Hasan Özgünesh. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group: Cavit Arı, Burhanettin Bulut, Murat Emir, Fikret Şahin, Bajram Yılmazkaya, Ali Şeker, Gökan Zeybek, Murat Minister, Hasan Baltacı, Müzeyen Şevkin, Yaşar Tuğün, Gürsel Erol, Mehmet Güzimmansur. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group: Arife Polat Süçü, İsmail Esgin, Selim Gültekin, İsmail Tamer, Erol Kaya, Attila Borrower, Selimi Altok, Halis Dalklıç, Kemal Çelik, Ahmet Zenbilci, Emine Sare Aydın, Serap Yasar, Recep Uncuoğlu. In the name of the individuals, Fevzi Berdibek. In the name of the executive: Health Minister Fahrettin Husband, Minister of Environment and Urbanism Murat Kurum, Interior Minister Süleyman Soylu. In the name of the individuals, this is Servet Reputation. Now, let's begin our speeches on behalf of the Good PARTY Group. The first word is Mr. Abdul Ahat Andican. Here you go, Mr. Andican.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0002par0062	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the sainted Turkish nation, begin with Turkey's first contact with the pandemic with the Science Council, which is created with its perception, hoping that the epidemic will answer all the problems it will cause. But when you looked at the structure of this board, which is all its members are doctors, it became clear that the power only perceives pandemics as a health issue. But the pandemic -- as we see and experience now -- is not just a health issue -- it's a case of social, political, economic, even international size. In that case, you're wrong if you think you can handle the pandemic administration with a board of doctors only. With a pandemic board of representatives from all parts of society that could be affected, only success could be achieved. I can give you a lot of examples of this, but if a pandemic board had been created, and there had been a representative of the Dianetite in it, there would not have been a virus in the warm climate within March. There would not have been a virus in the holy places. Tens of thousands of people would not have been sent to Umree, and then it would have been known that they would not have stayed home for four days when they returned. An AKP MP has made it clear what I mean by 245 cases of 268 cases that our friend threw on April 2nd. After a while, the fact that the Science Council couldn't care for the size of the pandemic, couldn't even fight it, and members of the Council began to say, "We are the advisory board." The AKP spokesman is already on TV and the last word is politics; that's the truth. The fact that he said it confirms it. Last month, we know only the information declared by a member of the Council, and we have no more information than ordinary citizens. It is important to show that they are as informed as citizens in this case. Why is this happening here now? So, why is the Science Board such a fiasco? This practice, which the authoritarian governments love, is called medical populism, or medical populism, in international literature. The power creates a perception as if it's taking advantage of science, but if it's successful, it achieves success, and if it fails, it uploads it to the Science Board. Conclusion: The Science Council in Turkey is a failure. Mr. Secretary, we have enough test kits against some questions when the virus doesn't come to Turkey yet, and we even export kits to European countries. In addition to increasing cases, the tests are initially announced only at one centre in Ankara. I mean, can you imagine, you're struggling with pandemics, and... all the medical schools in the country have enough equipment, but it's said to be done in one place. Think of a patient in Izmir, or Diyarbakır; he's been removed, sent to Ankara, answered three days later, while he continues to infect. After that, test centers are increased by numbers. So, why is this happening? There's not enough tests. During this period, he forgot to mention that when he said that Turkey was exporting tests abroad, it was done by the private sector and had nothing to do with the Ministry. For some reason, the Ministry is insisting on importing test kits from the Turkish private sector and importing them from China. Meanwhile, the Ministry is launching a test kit production study in a private venture partnership, and this special initiative has also been contacted by a supporting company. As for July, a single agency where the Ministry bought tests for all hospitals and public institutions turns out to be selling kits to the state, and it turns out that this is how the state was costing $40m in this way, as a motion given by one of our fellow lawmakers. We find that the Ministry of Health has given 7 public hospitals and 19 PCR test tenders, which will be held in September and December, to a cult advocacy or a company within the order of the health ministry, which is widely believed to be home. Apparently, the ministry continues to continue its non-compulsive approach. In the fight against pandemics, perhaps the greatest failure of power is the mask, my friends. According to the Anadolu Agency, we export $13m in masks to China in February; in February. He must think that the pandemic, which claims to have taken too early measures, will not be coming to Turkey, which he is not stockpiling at this time. As the inside pandemic spreads and the need begins, the Ministry raids the mask manufacturers and begins to confiscate the products. In the meantime, you'll remember that a minister will come out and sell them for money. He says, "The President will be released for free immediately." He will first distribute PTT numbers and e-governments via e-states. By the way, he is not aware that PTT, which has a distribution team of 9,000, will not be able to do so, including 83 million. You can't just give it up. It's said to be done in pharmacies, it's said to be reported in messages, and it's said that if it doesn't work out, the president will come out and go back to the past, and the masks will be sold again with money. They can't produce three digs. It's a reminder of the expression. The AKP, who claims to have passed the so-called age to Turkey, cannot distribute the three-cent mask to its citizens. Is there a strategy to fight the pandemic of power? No. I'll remind you of some events, you decide. As you may recall, during a period of increasing cases in Iran and Italy, when Greece is starting to appear, in February 28th, Mr. President of Turkey declares the European door to immigrants and refugees in Turkey, and then collapses to about 200,000 migrant borders. Our side, Turkey, claims, has passed 150,000 immigrants, but according to Greece, only 7,000 immigrants have been able to enter. Now, what does this have to do with pandemics, and what does pandemic management have to do with it? My answer, dear friends, is that no ruler in the world would put hundreds of thousands of people on the border during the pandemic period. He's sending me pandemic immigrants to his opponent, Greece. He doesn't allow propaganda. Furthermore, more importantly, during the March of the pandemic, he would not keep these people out there until the first week of April, at the borders, and then distribute them back into the country. So he wouldn't have wasted his country's most important leverage against the European Union. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] You'll remember the weekend restrictions, bans, declared at 10:00 p.m. without the health minister's knowledge. In all the cities, the people were on the streets, and they had to shop with a loud voice. It just shows how incompetent and uncoordinated the power is to manage the pandemic. Please remember Mr. Erdoğan's rally after the flood of Giresun, which ended each speech. Hundreds of people are trying to fight each other over 200 grams of tea that he threw over the bus. So it's going to be the TMM, which is the BMM, so let it go, the mask, the distance. Despite criticism from the press, Mr. Erdogan repeats the same procedure in another city. Now, what do you think of as citizens? What conclusion do you draw from this, and how do you shape your attitude toward pandemics? There's no need to say anything more. In combating pandemics, the esteemed lawmakers consider the Turkish Medical Association, which represents 80 per cent of the ruling doctors, to be successful, but only by handing over all elements of the state and nation, to be known as treason, treason, even more and more, to be closed. What about the power that interferes with municipal relief campaigns and seizes the accounts they've opened? On the other hand, the acolytes and the cult foundation are campaigning. Do you think you can succeed in the pandemic by shutting down municipalities for fear of success? Then you're wrong. As you can see, power has no strategy for pandemics, and it has only a reflex response approach. Let's get back to the bans against citizens still under the age of 65 today. The 10 percent of the population has become alienated, almost pariahs to society. Where we come from today, they're not even allowed to ride public transportation. I'm asking the Minister, what scientific study do you do bans on this group? What country in the world has this practice? With these applications, I'm afraid power today has become more damaging to the over 65-year-olds than the corona. It's transparency, my friends, if there's no struggle with pandemics. The first case in Turkey is announced on March 10th and the first death on March 17th. In early April, Mr. Minister became Istanbul Wuhan. He says, "Cavid is spreading throughout the country. Despite what he said, the numbers are far behind all the countries of the world. A little above Turkmenistan and North Korea, which claim that Covid's disease has not been seen in their country. By the way, Mr. President, we have defeated Corona, and with the health system that we've established in 17 years, the world is watching and imitating us. This perception is being strengthened by an ambulance plane from Sweden, by demonstrations of bringing patients from Sweden, providing supplies to Western countries. Strangers who have seen that the number of cases could not be fixed for exactly 27 days between 900 and 990 during an epidemic period understand that the number of cases is hidden by statistical evaluations and that the DSCE, the World Health Organization, does not report in accordance with the rules, Turkey says. And in June 6th, I'm throwing a tweet like this, and Germany doesn't send tourists. Why? Turkey's corona data is not reliable. Over and over again, we have warned, but the truth is blackened for the sake of an imaginary success story, and you deceive us, but strangers do not swallow. How much does this show cost? Millions of tourists. I'm being attacked by hundreds of trolls. In September, the S.E.S.A. was at a time when the spear could not fit in the sack for our Minister of Health in accordance with Turkey's agreement that the cases were not reported properly. The minister admits that he has not reported the cases since July, and is also trying to justify lying on behalf of the state, saying that the cover was made for our national interests. When the numbers are announced, the Turkish nation is in a state of shock. Turns out, the world's envy of us was a load of crap, and we were the first in Europe and the fourth in the world in terms of the number of cases. The fundamental question here is: Why has the power to build all its policies on perception management taken such a course since the beginning? The government thought the pandemic would end in the summer months, so they set up the game on it. If this had been done, Mr. President would have appeared in the pandemic conquerorial weather, stood up on the bench, and attributed it to low numbers given by July, saying that even the world's great economies had failed, but Pandemi broke the game. It was the result that the transparency of power became unreliable to the public. Unfortunately, the power is still not transparent about pandemics today, my friends. Although the test is negative, clinically corona cases are not included in the number, the number of deaths continue to be stored with the diagnosis of the infectious disease. Mr. Secretary should know that you cannot gain the public's trust without total transparency, and you cannot succeed in the pandemic unless you can involve the public in the struggle. Another important factor in fighting pandemics is healthcare workers, friends. In the early months of the pandemic, Mr. Secretary gave a speech in parliament, inviting lawmakers to give a round of applause to health workers. AS A GOOD PARTY, we said that a double salary should be given for at least three months. The ministry later developed a payment scale based on the location and quality of the study. According to this unfair scale, health workers today can only receive an unrequited number. The other day, the Minister of Health himself said that 193,000 health workers were positive for Covid and 206 health workers lost their lives. The ministry is still dragging its feet to accept Covid (Covid) as a professional disease. Mr. Secretary, aren't these people martyrs at the beginning of their mission? This is an important question; action must be taken as soon as possible. Recently, there have been reports that health workers and their families have not been given routine testing, that they are forced to work even after 10 days of Covid's arrest and Covid's positivity continue. It is the ministry's primary duty to protect the health of health workers in combating corona. As for the Health Ministry budget, the health-determining money in our country is far below the OECD average and the issue has been expressed by the Minister himself. We say that for years the model of the city hospital that the government has presented as the revolution in health has been bankrupted, abandoned all over the world. We've brought this up over and over again, but the power has not changed its attitude, it has shut down hospitals that have served in cities for decades to provide patients for these hospitals. Now, based on official numbers, I'm going to show you the trap of city hospitals: according to a report from the Ministry of Development, the construction costs of 19 city hospitals, which have been tendered for the past term, totalled $10.6 billion. So it's about $500,000 per hospital; it's $4 billion by today's theory. The average rent rate per hospital is $30.3 billion for the businesses that make these city hospitals, and the amount of money that will be paid in 25 years is $30.3 billion. This year's tender will be paid by the public, which means public-owned Aydın City Hospital 1.1 billion, Samsun 1.2 billion, Tripoli 1.1 billion this year. Now, as you can see, the city hospital costs the public an average of 1.1 billion at today's prices. However, I've just stressed, the price is $4 billion with today's money, almost tripled. In the next year alone, city hospitals will receive $16.5 billion from the budget, friends, 16.5 billion, 2021. 9 billion was paid last year; 5 billion was paid the previous year. Now, if you think that these payments are 25 years old, the extent of the robbery is appalling. So let's say it's possible for the public to do at least 15 of them, at least 16.5 billion dollars from the Health Department budget to city hospitals next year alone. This is the burden that Mr. President calls himself "Imagine" and the model presented as "the revolution in health," which our children and grandchildren will pay, even our children and grandchildren. We'll pay $30 billion for 25 years. If you think about the increase in courtship and the economic straits the country is in, you'll see what a burden that is.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0003par0078	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0002par0079	These payments show that we're right, and the Health Department has already accepted this shyly and has announced that city hospitals will now be held by the public, and that's how it began this year. The cost of insisting on this process, I just said, is billions of dollars, and it's a city hospital robbery. I can't say much more on the budget. Since I don't have time, I can't go into the vaccine in detail, but allow me to share my opinion with you: I have no confidence that a government that can't distribute a three-cent mask, who can't deliver flu vaccines, can now ration them, can import 160 million doses necessary for a population of 83 million, and can import them properly. If he can pull it off, I'd like to give my congratulations to the Minister.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0004par0082	Here comes our local vaccine, Congressman.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0002par0083	Thank you, and I wish you all a good day.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0005par0085	Mr. Arslan Shellcucuoğlu...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0006par0087	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of Turkey's General Directorate of Borders and Coasts, Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Agency, Turkey's Health Institutes Presidency budgets, on behalf of the PARTI Group. Mr. Ministers, Deputy Minister and esteemed bureaucrats, welcome, I salute you all. Covid-19 was first reported in Wuhan, China on 31 December 2019, and was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization on 11 March 2020. In our country, the Ministry of Health has been alerted, and the health army has been engaged in a full-handed mission. Partial social constraints were introduced on March 21, 2020, when the pandemic was out of control. Since 2018, the economy's difficulties have become even more insurmountable because of the evils. The measures taken on 18 November 2020 were forced to include new social restrictions on 1 December 2020. The construction-loving government received a tender for Turkey's companies due to the need during the pandemic period, while seven of them rushed into hospitals with a 21/b tender, while the municipalities did not allow hospitals to be evacuated, but they began to destroy the hospitals that the Ministry of Health had evacuated at this time immediately.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0007par0090	He wouldn't let me in the tent.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0006par0091	The number of hospital beds that have been thrown out during city hospitals is 12,000. Without a city hospital, the Health Ministers will perform their duties in peace. In our country, Covid-19 PCR tests were not enough. If the number of tests had been increased at the beginning of the pandemic, asymptomatic viruses would have been recognized early, and the spread of disease in society would not have been too much. What good is it if you create 100,000 more beds in the environment of around 30,000 new cases a day? It's a mind-blowing policy. What's supposed to happen is to test the money for the hospital, limit social activity. I'm sure it would have been different if the $6 billion you gave the low-income had been kept a little bit longer. To examine pandemic data in some selected countries, the number of tests in the United States is 645,000, the number of tests in Germany dropped to 1 million people in the United States, 73,000 in Iran, 74,000 in Japan and South Korea, and 29,000 in the United States -- except for many -- and 61,000 in the United States. In addition, one of the 67 patients died in the United States, one of the 48 patients died in Germany, one of the 40 died in Iran, one of the 80 patients died in Japan, and one of the 86 died in South Korea. This, I think, is the success of the Turkish health system, the Turkish health workers. They have a big share in the low mortality rate here. Paramedics have given us 230 martyrs so far. The rate of disease and death caught by health workers is much higher than the rate of disease and death in society. To those who are sick, to those who are ill, to those who are dying, to those who have died. The government, which pays for tube-pass payments, bridge crossings, payloads of paid roads, for a reason, doesn't give anything to those who give their lives. Public authority has not been paid to the medics. He said, "The medics' rights are not really being paid." However, the pandemic is a professional disease, which should be legally concluded. The health staff, who died in fear of this disease, are martyrs, and the government does not accept it. In this sentence, medics work at least eight hours a day. In modern - day practice, public officials work six hours a day. Hopefully, the public authority will pay for these two hours and at least in health they'll be rewarded. Again, there is a salary of around $4,800 for a first-degree physician. I don't want to hurt other professions, but whatever profession you take, it's all on this one. Here, you are paid to the health workers to receive return capital. It does not reflect on their pensions, their rights of essence. Again, the 3600 additional indicators of non-medicine medical personnel have turned into a snake story. Like the other 3 groups, medics have been patted on their backs and the 3,600 additional indicators you promised to be given are not being fulfilled. The pandemic data has been discussed a lot. Over the years, the number of deaths have been looked at and projections have been made for this year, and it's been added to the loss of life declared because of its pandemic, but it turns out that it's still far below the number of daily burials. Here, the trust of the Minister of Health has been shaken. That's how the Science Board decided with these numbers, and that's another problem. The government's number manipulation continues here, as in inflation, as in unemployment. It's an honor to express that in our country, no professional has ever fled his post due to his pandemic. For example, more than 20 per cent of Turkish MPs in the Grand National Assembly were caught in pandemics. As far as I know, a friend's wife was lost because of her pandemic. I pray for healing for those who are sick and mercy for those who have lost their lives. On this occasion, we would like to thank Mr. Health Minister, the Deputy Health Minister himself, the Department of Health bureaucrats, the Chiefs of Medicine, the Chiefs of Medicine, the Doctors, the Nurses, the Medical Secretarys, the Laborants, the Assistant Medical Officers, all of the Health Corps, briefly. Congressmans, violence in health is a never-ending story. Violence has been in health as it has been in many sectors in recent years and continues to climb. This affects the efficiency of doctors, nurses, hospital employees, as well as the harm of patients. According to a study conducted in Finland, the most violent profession groups are prison guards, police officers, and post-psychological nurses and doctors. In Turkey's research, verbal violence is 98% and physical violence is around 19 percent. The motivations of violent people are deteriorating, the patient's phobia is developing, and they're changing units. They're silent because they're desperate in our country, but in Western countries, it's a business change. Again, by popularism created by the government after 2002, the door to violence in public health has been opened wide. I was Chief of Medicine in those years, and in the years after that, I continued to work at the hospital again. Patients understood the statement of the Ministry of Health: "Go, be examined, and slap the nurse, the doctor, and come. The Ministry couldn't have dealt with the freak who was created here. There have been numerous arrangements in the health legislation on the subject. Patients come to the hospital with high expectations. The rhetoric of authority is often said: "We have made you city hospitals, you will receive proper examinations; go freely, and the citizen is worthy of everything. However, the number of patients who have been examined in emergency clinics today is measured by thousands. The annual number of clinics in Turkey is 750 million, which means that Turkey's health army examines half of China every year. In recent years, health workers have been under siege, with increased violence against women reflected in the industry. Turkish health workers do so with half as many staff as OECD countries' data, and pay by a quarter of their salary. Medical personnel are doing their job in a needled barrel, if you will. Because of violence, posttraumatic stress and loss of motivation also result in a lack of duty. Health planning in our country has shifted to populism instead of economics and health care. The Ministry of Health is aware of the situation, and has gone to make some arrangements. In 2011, during the presentation of health care or on the basis of criminal law, the Ministry or the State Department will grant legal aid for the activities carried out during the presentation of health care services in 2011... if the Ministry of Internal Affairs has issued a general statement issued in 2011, the victim's assault verbs will be processed directly without a search for the victim's complaint. Health care personnel can be withdrawn from service if they want, except for emergency services, which are published in 2012 by the Ministry of Health Treatment Services General Directorate. In accordance with Act 6514 issued in 2014, the additional clause added to Health Services Code 3359 was considered to be a misdemeanor injury to the staff in the course of their duties or on the basis of their duties. Like the Ministry of Health issued Legal Aid and the White Code Generalship in 2016... There's violence in health in other countries, but they have punishment. The government does not take a firm stand for violence. For example, on April 15, 2020, a change of material was introduced in the bag of legislation: the sentence will be increased by 50 per cent. It has been said that jail time cannot be postponed. Although it has been said that Mr. AK PARTY and the MPs of the Nationalist Movement Party have been suspended due to their resistance. I mean, you're supposed to be punishing citizens, but since the decision's been dropped, there's nothing going on here and it's gone. In short, violence in health is an abscess. From the beginning, the government has long been populism instead of policy, economics and health. Instead of weighting health costs to protective health care, it has shifted to populism, which is contrary to the nature of the job. Today, the first step is half the number of clinic services in health care institutions. However, the number of polyclinics in the first digit should be twice as high as the number in the second digit. In this case, under pressure, medical personnel and patients with high expectations are causing problems, causing problems. Congressmans, isn't it loyal to give what they deserve to people who do their duty, who are sick, who give their lives, who risk being separated from their children? One: Laws to stop violence in health must be passed immediately. Two: Mr. Secretary, please pay the health workers' dues. If you don't do that, when the time comes, the medical staff will remember your efforts, your efforts, but they won't forget that you haven't given them their rights. Today, food, weapons, and medicine are strategic products. We have to take care of medicine and vaccines. According to the World Bank's rankings, we are ranked third on five, among the cautious countries of infection. In the coming times, we must be cautious, since we expect epidemics ten years, fifteen years apart. In this regard, the vaccine industry is clearly important. Turkey has an old history of vaccines. In the 1700s, vaccinations began against smallpox. In 1840, the Ottoman Empire began a flower vaccine. So that between 1920 and 22 years, the Ottoman Empire gave France, Britain and the United States 220 thousand doses of flower vaccines. He sold cholera vaccines to China in the 1940s. In World War II, many countries were exported to typhus vaccines. In 1927, the Refik Saydam Institute opened. Turkish health has been well served. On November 2, 2011, this institution was officially closed. It is evident that the rulers here are neglectful. In the beginning, the strong vaccine industry then avoided the necessary care, and we became completely dependent on the outside for the vaccine. After this year, the Ministry of Health has begun providing imports of technology as well as imported vaccines. Today, recombinant, hepatitis B, snake antiserum, scorpion antiserum. For Covid-19, the project for finding 5 vaccines in Turkey is supported. As we have missed in additives, the fate of less developed countries is that we have lived in vaccines, and we have met here. Pharmaceutical raw materials, pharmaceutical industry, are among the highest added sectors. No matter their development, countries import pharmaceutical raw materials. The problem here is that your imports must be lower than your exports. Turkey, too, unfortunately, can't be achieved. As of 2019, our exports were $1.3 billion, and our imports were $5.1 billion, the difference against imports cannot be closed. Drug consumption is rapidly increasing in our country. In 2010, drug consumption of 13.4 billion boxes reached 40.7 billion boxes in 2019. In 2019, domestic medicine was produced by 2 billion boxes, while imported medicine is about 300 million boxes, but in value, imported medicines are worth 48 per cent in our drug costs, while our domestic manufacture is worth 52 per cent in Turkey. Today's vaccine, human and animal blood, the serum toxin, has a share in total imports, high pencils and 17 per cent shares. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0008par0112	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0006par0113	Meanwhile, the situation of the children of SMA is important. As a medical person, I'm aware of the limitations of the resources available. On the other hand, the grieving families are in the middle. It's what these families expect when the Ministry of Health comes up with a proper solution. I wish that the 2021 budget would be good for our country, that the Ministry of Health would be even more successful, that 2021 would be a year in which violence was prevented in health and health personnel were paid, and that I would salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0008par0116	Mr. Metin Ergun, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0009par0118	Mr. President, I would like to present our views on behalf of the well-being party in the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism budget of 2021. I hereby salute your high council. Reverend MPs, as you know, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is the institution with the most problems with environmental problems in Turkey. His decisions and policies affect the quality of human life as well as the continuity of natural life. However, the ministry's share of the general budget has been proportionally around 26-27 per thousand for years. This ratio is not enough to deal with environmental problems, it needs to be increased. As with the policies of the environment, I do not have a policy on the ministry's budget. The government, which left Turkey behind in economic, law and democracy, is not in a different position on environmental policies. Because both economic and environmental policy in the world is being revised in a new and radical way, a new process of construction has been taken into the center of the environment. Today, when new projections are determined, power remains indifferent to what is happening in the world. Even China, which is now the most polluting country in our world, promised to build a carbon neutral economy by 2060. In this regard, the government has neither a consistent goal nor a scientific and predictable program. The European Union also combines economic growth strategy and environmental policies in the Green Covenant and presents a new vision. So it is understood that in the coming period, international trade will be done according to the criteria for friendly production and consumption with the environment. It is evident that countries who do not meet these criteria will lose their competitive advantage and lose export markets. So the regulations aimed at protecting the environment in international trade, such as the European Green Covenant, force Turkey to transform environmentally from industry to foreign trade, education to agriculture. So in many areas, the need for structural reforms has become a necessity to have as much environmental policies as law, democracy, freedom. Honourable lawmakers have become a question of the environmental problems and risks Turkey faces. The beginnings of this are the contamination of our water supply and the destruction of its resources in various ways. As you know, most issues, such as food safety and economic growth, are based on the sustainability of water resources and access to clean water. However, according to a study of the Environmental Engineers' Room, about 79 percent of the surface waters in our country are contaminated. Our rivers and lakes are polluted and desecrated by grave error. Industrial waste and industrial agriculture, for example, have completely contaminated the Ergene River, which began west of Northern Forests. The loss of the teenage basin is not only the loss of water, but also the extinction of agriculture in the region. The rivers to the east of the North Forests water the great farmlands of Alexandria, Sakarya, and Düzce. These waters are contaminated by industrial waste and wrong urbanization and construction. However, according to some calculations, Turkey will become a water-poor country starting in 2030. But the irregularities in the rain regimes caused by climate change seem to make us a much faster water-poor country. This year, this year, a serious risk of dehydration has arisen in Turkey as the rains remain low. In short, Turkey has become a water-poor country, not a water-stressing country. Our severe drought is a result of deforestation, wild irrigation, agricultural production, and the wrong environmental policies as a whole. If this continues for several more months, the need for urban water will increase, agricultural production will decrease, food inflation will increase unprecedentedly. What we have left is a major crisis in which sectors to use the water. We also know that power has no preparation for such matters. Congressmans, another important environmental problem is air pollution. For example, a report published in 2019 found that at least 75 million people breathe dirty air in Turkey, so about 90 per cent of our population breathes dirty air. As of 2019, air pollution in our country is 31 per cent higher than the European average. Particle matter in the Turkish atmosphere was measured by only 5.6 per cent more in 2003 than by Europe in 2019 by 31 per cent in 2019. The main reason for this is that air pollution in Europe has been reduced regularly, while in Turkey, air pollution has been steadily increased due to its lack of precautions, because the government does not see air pollution as a problem and naturally does not fight it; rather, it is encouraged to desecrate air, as in the example of filterless thermal plants that have been ignored for years. Not only does the current thermal plants contaminate the air, new thermal power plant projects are also being done. Three of these plants are in Mugla, and not only are they polluting the air of the three plants, they have affected agricultural production and human health. Although the climate crisis and drought we live in Turkey have global dimensions, the current government has a serious responsibility in this crisis because power continues to implement errors that cause climate change and speed up in Turkey, insisting on producing energy based on fossil fuels rather than renewable energy sources. He didn't take the chance of ruling alone to promote and conduct waste management in the circular economy. In addition, the current government is implementing a dangerous mining policy, which we find very difficult to understand. The government has opened its forests to mining without any concern. Instead of reforestationing every empty field and creating new forest areas, power destroys existing forests. Mining companies, with the government's incentive, have turned Asia Minor upside down and caused millions of trees to be cut down. In the Kaz Mountains alone, about 200,000 trees have been cut down. I'd also like to talk about my constituency, which has become a local laboratory of power's mining politics. According to the TEMA Foundation, 59 per cent of the facial measurement of the Mugla, 65 per cent of the forest areas are licensed to mines. It has to be known that every forest that opens up into mining and Ranta, every tree that's been cut down, is one of the key factors of the drought that we live in today, and the plague belongs to power. However, unsupervised mines, such as Milas, have destroyed the natural environment of our cities. Indirectly looted by adeta clever forest fires, its towns, each a paradise corner, are now sacrificed by direct development changes, mining and so-called coastal projects, to Ranta and Talan. Today, the same games are played in Akyaka, Gökova, Bodrum, and every corner of Mughla. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism launched on March 16, 2020, and the protected areas are open to building with the Law of the Protection Areas, Register and Approvement of the Protected Areas. The government remounds regions declared as natural sites, allowing natural areas to be built and opened with protection covers by its regulations. Thus, the natural status of coastal and biological diversity is being changed and revised by the construction plans, including the famous Akyaka region. By the way, we have villages and neighborhoods that are not permitted because of their stay in the natural site and in many parts of Turkey. Our citizens in the villages and neighborhoods have lived in the same place for centuries. If our citizens build a dwelling on their land, these dwellings will be destroyed by nature. Although they have lived in the same place for centuries, our citizens, who cannot build their homes, have no choice but to leave the land where they live. Thus, this crisis in our villages and neighborhoods, which remain within the natural site, must be resolved in a reasonable manner, and our citizens must not be victimized anymore. Reverend lawmakers have shown that the recent Izmir earthquake is a fact of Turkey, but there is a greater reality that power does very little about earthquakes. The government has used taxes collected for the earthquake beyond its purpose and has blocked the practice of taking precautions in this regard. According to earthquake scientists, a major earthquake is expected in Istanbul in the coming period. A significant preparation and an earthquake-resistant urban transformation for the big earthquake expected in Istanbul has not, unfortunately, been done. It is known to everyone that at least 70 per cent of the current building stock in Istanbul is not safe for earthquakes. Moreover, the vast majority of these risky structures are allegedly made with scrap metal and sea sand. A number of irregular buildings under the name "Imirar peace" were pardoned just to create financial resources, and it was called "peace." According to many experts, zoning pardons have become one of the most important incentives for illegal construction and have increased the number of earthquake-proof housing. In the same way, empty areas with no structure on them, and high gains are declared urban transformation sites, while the areas that are at a really high risk of disaster are not considered a priority if there is no Rant return. The time has come for our cities, our habitats, to be treated with a scientific and rightful understanding of the public. In this context, the national strategy for a new earthquake must be set and carried out without wasting time, under the leadership of scientists from various fields and a comprehensive strategy. Dear lawmakers, we must perform radical transformations for a more sustainable life as both humanity and Turkey. With environmental pollution, earthquake risk, and climate crisis, time is working against us day by day. As a good PARTI, we feel that environmental policies should not only be the responsibility of a Ministry, they should be in a political position and the centre of public administration, but we can reduce the environmental and, of course, risks that we face, we can achieve a sustainable economy and social life. As I cease to speak with these feelings and thoughts, I wish the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism's budget of 2021 to be good, with all due respect, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0010par0132	Mr. President, we have one minute left, so just so you know, you'll have to add some time.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0011par0133	I'll give it to you, no problem, but we'll give it to Mr. Mahmut Tanal.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0012par0134	Mr. President, you're taunting me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0011par0135	That's what I do, that's what I do.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0012par0136	I love you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0011par0137	It's very quiet, that's why the negotiations are going so smoothly. Mr. Behic Steel, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0013par0140	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I'm going to try to express my opinion with the Homeland Ministry, specifically on the Police and Coast Guard Command. National defense, national security policies are our struggle to exist in this geography. With God's blessing and help, we will not give up, we will not hesitate, we will put our will firmly in this way, and we will continue to place it. This is our determination that we will be in this country for the next thousand years, just as we have been in this country in the past thousand years. Again, we're here for the next thousand years. That's what national security policies are all about. In the theory of our national security, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has a unique place in its practice. The Turkish Armed Forces, the MIT and the Foreign Ministry provide permanence of the state. My dear friends, when you say Homeland Ministry, you think of the Police, the gendarmes, the Coast Guard. These are the property of armed law enforcement. Dear MPs, the Home Secretary is responsible for the general security and security of the country. The Home Secretary will carry out his responsibility with police, gendarmes and Coast Guard personnel under his command. Today, this force is a guarantee of our sovereignty and a thorough provision of the safety of each citizen's lives, property and rape. Another definition is that peace, safety, and health are the cause of the armband, especially health. Why is health, general armband, the police, the gendarme directly involved, and I'll get to that in a minute. Dear friends, the Plan and Budget Commission discussed the Interior Ministry budget, and on 26 November, I made constructive remarks for the Ministry. In my speech, I was reminded that the Ministry of Interior had lost its former weight and that it had been followed by the instructions of the elite outside the ministry, that public order had been deprived of almost entirely basic grounds, that it had been weakened by its own legislation without orders and instructions, that it could not act with its own regulations, that it had been heavily imposed, that the first three cities, especially the governors, had been unable to use its powers, and that it had been transformed into bureaucrats following the instructions given from the WhatsApp group, and that the authorities had no control over the law, or that their commitment to law was superficial, that security managers had been weak, and that they still had been unable to work directly with the police departments, and that they were still under the regulations, and that they had failed to carry out regulations and other regulations from the authorities. Dear lawmakers, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is sending me a piece of paper after this talk, and it contains no satisfying information about the core, is that understanding possible? I've already made a motion for the Home Office to ask about the suicides in the police. It's a long story and there's no clear answer to our question. This procedure is inappropriate because I consider it a violation of the moral character of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Dear friends, the Ministry and its property authorities viewed it as a public gate and a loving hand of the state; all requests, complaints and warnings of the citizen were taken into consideration and carried out. Now there's a state structure that is blinded by partisanism and bias. The headquarters of this building, unfortunately, is the Home Office and the governorates. Now the need door is closed, and there is no more. Is it true that a governor can't get rid of the guards on the AK PARTI list? Is it true that a governor is having a joint video meeting with the AKP Mayor and lawmakers? Is it true that the president of the AK PARTI has previously appointed officers to be appointed without declaring red tape? According to its proximity to Fivetepe, managers, governors, judicial members, lawmakers, mayors form an actual hierarchical chain. Friends, that kind of structure means partisan management. That is the straying towards the autocracy, and the end of it is loss, and it is of no avail to anyone. The salvation of a country that is condemned by one party is only possible by a fair, equal and free choice. Without manipulation for the election, the AKP will come out with courage and lead the country to the election; it will be good for itself. Dear lawmakers, from March 11, 2020 to today we are going through a difficult pandemic process. As I first stated, peace, safety, and health are the chief administrative duties of the police. It is the police who suffer the most after medical staff in the fight against infectious and epidemics. Here, my friends, the efforts of our policemen, who have fought hard against pandemics for nine months, deserve all the thanks and prayers. I especially ask God's mercy on our police officers who lost their lives in the pandemic because of their duty. Yeah, his pandemic shot most cops after the paramedics. Dear MPs, Minister of Interior Süleyman Soylu said the police don't want to go to İstanbul. If Istanbul is unable to live with police, it is necessary to find a solution if it is struggling to make a living. Otherwise, the Turkish police will work everywhere. So he's troubled by his salary, he's troubled by the height of the rents in Istanbul, and despite everything else, we insist, we demand that he be given 3600 additional indicators. This didn't even happen. There's a lot of trouble in the police, there's no definition of duty of civilian personnel working for the police, these personnel should not be left alone with their fates, not as slaves. On the other hand, it is lowering quality in departments to be partisan in postings that are being flagged by police. Those who deserve it must be marked and brought to their residency. Dear friends, what we want from the Police is very simple: to be the door of justice, not to use excessive force; to use deterrent and effective force against criminals, perverts, traitors; to be compassionate, compassionate; to be neutral and neutral towards politics; to care for discipline. As for the Coast Guard, this agency has managed to adapt quickly to the Ministry of Interior, but the officers in need of services under the 7th Amendment of its own laws retire at 60, admirals at 65, with the Minister's approval. It's important not to abuse this authority, not to use the partisan. And then there's the definition of property duty. Since its property is not a duty, it must now be considered a administrative duty, and under Law 4483, it must be authorized to allow it. I say that there should not often be unnecessary calls by the justice of the peace, and that reasonable doubt authority in the CMC should be reconsidered. Yeah, there's a lot to say about the budget, but time is limited. Our police, our carabinieri and the Turkish army are very valuable agencies. Without them, there is no mention of our honor, honor, honor, independence and sovereignty. Let us not forget that the law enforcement agency is the one who pays the most dearly. Although the brave people of the organization have always resisted, they have suffered great sacrifices and suffering.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0014par0154	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0013par0155	Dear friends, our advice is that the law of public control is needed. Police and gendarmes must be strengthened with their strength and deterrents. A new perspective must be brought to the fight against terrorism and especially the law of law enforcement. Fighting corruption and non-region is mandatory. I'm saying the police's property must be strengthened by the authorities, new regulations must be made in Law 5442, and the Law on Punishment. My confidence in the Turkish police, as a member of the Internal Affairs Commission and as an officer of the police for years -- because of the internal and external factors -- is that some police neglect, some of them betrayals will never restore the reputation of the Security, and we will not allow those who do so. I wish God's mercy to our martyrs in our organization, and to our veterans, an urgent cure. I wish you well in the budget. I express here that we will vote yes, and I give all of you my respects.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0015par0160	Mr. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0016par0162	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the People's General Assembly, General Directorate of the Immigration Administration, and from the Office of Afet and Emergency Management, 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019 Central Management Computing Law Proposal, on behalf of the PARTI Group. I salute your delegation. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, despite all the difficult conditions they've been under, I wish our citizens the best success of our heroic gendarme forces, who have served their lives, their blood, for the safety of our homeland. I pray to those who are martyrs in the service, to God's mercy, and to their grieving families, and to patience. Again, I wish our veteran security forces a healthy and healthy long life. I, too, would like to point out that my party, the nephew of the late Kenan Sökmen, the nephew of the late Kenan Sökmen, who served as a veteran of the War of Istiklal War and a Medal of Artaturk, has the honor of the arms of Ataturk. I would be proud to vote as well. In the 92 per cent part of our country, the General Command, which maintains security and security and order and maintains public order, also deals with illegal immigration issues, such as fighting terrorist activities and smuggling drugs and fuel. For our General Command, the budget offer of 2021 is 27 billion, 666 million, 865 thousand Turkish liras. AS A GOOD PARTY Group, I would like to point out that if there are budgetary shortcomings, we will support additional funding for budget funds and increase any means available. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in the struggle against terrorist activities in our country, there is a lot of difference in compensations, monthly payments, monthly payments, and health costs, as well as in the lives of soldiers, police, civilian martyrs and relatives, as if there is a status difference between our veterans, martyrs and family members. It hurts them. We demand that these differences be corrected as soon as possible, on behalf of all veterans and martyr families, we demand that power be restored. Madam Secretary, our regular police officers, who have put their lives on the line for national security, expect that their term at school, with 3600 additional indicators, will be counted as a de facto service, and their name and status will also be changed as an assistant petty officer to help clear up the confusion. We demand that you consider his wishes. Yes, we say once again that we will vote positively as a good PARTI Group for the General Command budget in order to prevent it from being used for politics. Mr. President, our country has been in the midst of the economic crisis and the Syrian crisis for a long time. The Syrians have been the burden of our economy. My dear friends, we can't avoid these facts just because the AK PARTY doesn't think so. Turkey still has 3 million 680,603 Syrian asylum seekers registered in Turkey -- which the Ministry of Interior has announced. Our country is the largest refugee country in the world, even if it is calculated only by the registered ones. With 1.5 million non-responsive Syrian refugees, there are 5 million,200,000 Syrian refugees in Turkey. If we have to do a computation by moving from the numbers that our government has explained, the money spent on Syrian asylum seekers from 2011 to the end of 2019 is 51.1 million dollars from the resources of the Turkish state. In addition, $7.1 billion was spent on the United Nations and EU funds. In short, the amount of money that can be determined to be spent is $58.2 billion by the end of 2019. There are no military expenditures, no social benefits for 3 million people in Syria, and no salaries for government officials in Syria. When we calculate it all, the real cost is over 80 billion dollars. The money for Syrian asylum seekers in 2020-2021 is $21 billion. It's not sustainable, guys. AS A GOOD PARTY, we believe that everyone will be happy in their own country. This is indeed the way that the return process must be initiated urgently to present the happiness of our temporary protected Syrian guests as well as the happy, peaceful and prosperous future to our citizens. Our country's demographic structure is changing, especially in our provinces of Kilis, Antwerp, Hatay, Urbana, Adana, Mersin, Syrian refugees are a growing problem for our country, both in the criminal sense and in the sociological sense. The problem of Syrian refugees must be resolved. That's what our citizens expect of you, hear your voices. We're hungry, we're unemployed. We can't pay the electric gas bills. We're opening and closing our business without fail. Listen to their screams. Our nation says enough is enough. Under the economic crisis, we have people moaning, waiting for the power to hear their voices and remember their promises. The welfare of our country, the police who work day and night for the safety of our nation, the martyrs in their duties, the health workers we entrust our lives to, the precious teachers who built our future and trusted our children, the religious officers we hold in their ranks, have they forgotten the 1,600 additional indicators? THE people are waiting for action, not talk of power, and they want their problems resolved. We, the good PARTI lawmakers, will continue to remind you of your commitment, tirelessly, tirelessly, until the right wishes are granted. The minimum wage negotiations continue. Mr. Coral Akşener, our offer of Asgari is 3,000 Turkish liras without any additional cost to our employers. You immediately said, "Where is the source?" The cost of this resource is not even 40 per cent of the 176 billion dollars that the EC PARTI government has set aside for interest. The source account is as simple as that. Our goal is our nation and our state first. Please stop looking at our people cross-eyed. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have published a new earthquake map that took effect on January 1, 2019. On the new earthquake map, Turkey's earthquake threat has taken a stand on the contrary, knowing that it will not change and will not change, updating Turkey's map of earthquake zones, reducing the risk of earthquakes in 46 provinces, increasing the risk of earthquakes in our six provinces. This has been an extremely wrong and unacceptable attitude. Our country is in first-degree earthquake geography. It's science that means that there's going to be major earthquakes at any moment. When we look at the last 50 years, 60 years of earthquake-related destruction, death, economic loss, the same pain, the same talks... it's the prequalifications that need to be discussed. Starting in Istanbul, in our cities, in the centers of construction, we must begin with the discovery of underground geophysics, geological structures, micro-document maps of the settlements. According to the priority order, a unit of experts in municipalities, governorship or AFAD, construction, geophysics, geology engineers must be established and the inventory of basement floors and buildings that are flooded with water must be prepared and the necessary steps are taken. The population increases of the city and its districts, the migrations they have taken, the areas that will open up to development, the maps of the underground, geophysics, geological structures, the urban development plan must be moved forward for 15 or 20 years, and projects of the citizens' economic power should be produced based on their state. The condition of the ground's groundwork, especially the ground where the building will be built, is that the earthquake waves that will pass through the ground when the earthquake happens, have to expand the vertical-strength force, grow the ground, calculate correctly the transport power and the ground-dominated period, and have to be inspected if the buildings on that floor are built in accordance with these parameters. A unit of experts, geophysics, geology and civil engineers within the municipalities must be established.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0017par0176	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0016par0177	If you're sensitive about this, we will vote positively for the General Command, Security Directorate and Coast Guard Command budgets, and I wish that the 2021 budget be good for our country and our nation, and I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0017par0179	The speeches for the good party are complete. We now begin the talks on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. First word, Mr. Sefer Aycan. Here you go, Mr. Aycan.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0018par0184	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our National Party for Action on the budget of the Ministry of Health. I salute you. Of course, since we're talking about the Health Ministry budget 2021 and we're also talking about program-based budget technique, we're actually going to talk about their schedules, but since Covid is our agenda, we just have to talk about programs related to Covid-19, and we need to talk about what's being done and what's going to be done. We're experiencing a pandemic, a pandemic of infectious disease. A contagion is seen as multiplying from a source and passing the microorganism to solid people. So we need to break this chain of infections from somewhere, and we need to do all the programs to break the chain, but the right way is to eliminate the source. In Covid-19, they are people who have been infected or infected with the virus. Here, you have to explain on one polemic; infection is something else, infection is something else. If the microorganism is in the body, if it's multiplied, it's an infection, and if the evidence is found, it's an infection. Of course, finding and treating a sick person is very important. We need to isolate it and separate it from society because it's both a cure and a source. I think we're doing very well. The entire health department is doing its best to treat the patients, and there is no day for him to spread the virus after the illness, which means he will spread it for seven days. There is no rule that he will scatter it for ten days. Medicine is not like math or social science is not like math. So we have to separate the patient from the other people until it's negative. We're doing this at the hospital for the duration of her illness, but we need to keep going after the symptoms have passed, and we need to isolate her. I don't think it's right to send people home because they're infected and infected. We need to isolate them. We need to isolate these individuals, especially in the dorms, in public institutions, until they're done infecting them. I think the problem is here, this spread continues. We can't stop the plague by treating it; if we want to stop the plague, we have to prevent it from spreading. Covid-19 is an obligatory host. If we stop the virus from passing from a sick person to another person, we'll prevent the outbreak, and we won't need anything else. As long as we separate people who are sick, who are welding, and when we've done that 100 percent, we'll prevent the virus from moving around without any further need, and we'll avoid the epidemic. But we have a shortage here, we have a failure here, we have an inadequacy; of course, that's not just the problem with the health department. I think those who don't follow these rules, who don't take the necessary precautions, who make fun of it, who don't take it seriously, have a responsibility here. The paramedics are doing everything they can, but if the virus continues to spread, this outbreak will continue. There's something here that's as important as a cure, we're trying to insulate, and we're looking for a source, we're making a filament. Fiction is as important as treatment. If we're going to stop the outbreak, we have to keep searching for resources, find and separate every infected person, or we won't have a chance to succeed. Now, when we get to the good guy... we have the mask to protect the good guy, the mask is now an effective means of protection. Of course, another important means of protection is the vaccine, but you have to be careful about the vaccine. Polymics is also harmful to overstate the vaccine, or it is also harmful to public health to discredit a vaccine because of its country, an approach to causing anarchy and chaos in society. Now, we're going to run a national program, we're going to run it. Here, leadership is very important, leadership is important in national programs, politics is important. Needless to say about the vaccine means nothing. I'd like to thank Mr. State Gardener for his leadership here. (Applause from MHP rows) Our president has announced that he will be vaccinated. And it's up to political leaders to support this campaign, to motivate it by showing leadership, to set an example. Now, he's talking to everyone for the vaccine, and he's even back at the gate of the runt, and the countries are turning into wars. The vaccine, of course, is a strategic product, but it's wrong to say that it's 90-95 percent protective of a vaccine. It's not 90-95 percent protective, it's the level of antibody production when the vaccine is made, so we've vaccinated 100 people, which means 90-95 people have antibodies. But the formation of antibodies does not mean that it will protect you, nor does it mean how long protection will last. Because even the CEOs of the vaccine company, even the CEOs of the vaccine, are saying: "We don't know how much this vaccine will protect." We're doing the vaccine to create antibodies, but the antibodies are a living thing, even for those who experience it for three or four months. Mr. Health Ministry has also explained that after three months you may be sick again. He said, "You may be sick again." He accepted this as a new case. Even so, when he falls in love, 90 - 95% will be protected. On the contrary, it is wrong to abuse a vaccine because of the country where it was produced. And there's no point in denigrating any country's vaccine, especially since Turkey is going to take it. But let's know that the vaccines, of course, will create antibodies; we don't know how long, how long, we don't know, for now, we don't know, we have to watch, we haven't even finished the phase three studies. Even after phase 3 studies, we need to compare the rate of disease inoculated society and non-inoculated societies, and if statistically significant, then the vaccine protects this much. We need to talk about a year's protection, five years' protection, ten years' protection. That's not the case. Give him a disease or give him a shot, but keep wearing your mask. We have no choice but to wear the mask everywhere, right now, even at home, because it's showing domestic spread right now, and in order to prevent that, we need to keep wearing masks, our most powerful tool is the mask. Of course, we'll be conducting vaccine studies during these studies, of course. I'm running out of time, too fast. I'd like to talk to you a little bit about the condition of the medical staff. Now, there's a great battle going on. Everyone's doing their best. Meanwhile, the medical staff has also passed away, and may God have mercy on all of them and upon all the citizens who have passed away due to Covid-19. But we need to support the medical staff, they're under a very serious burden, they're waging a war, we need strategic support in this war. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0019par0194	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0018par0195	Just as our Mehmetchik does operations across the border, our medical staff struggles in the same way; they are very busy, very tired, so we need new medical personnel for him. We've got enough paramedics, we've got people waiting. There'll be a new appointment in public, but it's not enough. We need to get the paramedics back online. I don't know, if staff facilities aren't available, we should at least hire temporary staff to support medical personnel during the outbreak. Other than that, the private sector needs to employ more medical personnel to reduce the burden. We have enough staff. The other thing is that we have to make arrangements for health personnel' rights -- my time is running out -- to make improvements about it. And here -- as our General President puts it -- we publicly declare that we will support anything to do with the medical staff. Thank you. I wish our country the best of the 2021 budget. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0020par0200	Mr. Ali Muhittin Taşdoğan, please come in.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0021par0202	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the great Turkish nation following us at the beginning of their screens, have made a pledge on behalf of the MHP Group as part of their fifth round of talks on the Health Ministry budget of 2021. As in the world, I give thanks to our heroic health workers, to their devoted families, to my own, to my party, and to our nation, especially our Minister of Health and the Science Council, who are struggling with the outbreak of Covid-19 in our daily life and economic lives. I wish God's mercy to our health workers and to our citizens who died in the struggle for the plague and to their families and relatives who died in the service of the nation. Precious lawmakers have been fighting a pandemic crisis, which, at the beginning of the cases, was described by the World Health Organization as a regional plague threat, then influenced by all countries for about a year. Like any country, we have our share of many negatives and tribulations brought by the plague. In our country, the spread and deaths of the increasing number of cases concern the entire community. Unfortunately, it's a natural consequence of our disregard for precautions and recklessness. We're at a time when we're talking about how disease is treated in a hospital environment or how important treatment methods and vaccines are. What's more important than the treatment of the plague or its vaccine is to control and conquer the epidemic with preventive measures in the field. The physical conditions of hospitals, beds, intensive care, lack of beds, or the number of health workers should be known to be more significant than direct involvement in the fight against the epidemic, as well as the implementation of preventive and protective measures and stressing that these measures are our new normal situation. As our President-in-Chief, Mr. State Gardener, stated, we will defeat this plague with the power of mind, science, and prayer. Congressmans, the head of the agency for monitoring newly established rare diseases should take an active role in our Commission meetings. There must be concrete studies to ensure that cancers and rare diseases in our country are able to produce biotech medicines and bio-similar drugs that can satisfy the need for medicine. Drug costs in this area, affecting 8 per cent of our population, also bring about $2 billion of external-dependent budget burdens to the country's economy. Also, for patients with rare diseases this semester who have a problem going to the hospital, they need to be infused at home. A code that can be defined as e-sacred or health passport should be among our priorities to track everyone who has been vaccinated from the HES system in the new process, which will begin with the implementation of the vaccines. International integration that could also be achieved should also be envisioned. Members of parliament, it is also vital that measures be taken before violence occurs, and health workers work in a safe environment, to remove increased violence from the country's agenda in our hospitals. We believe that the establishment of the office for prevention of violence in health care can meet all legal, administrative and social measures in order to prevent acts of violence against health workers. Our Minister, who announced that there would be 12,000 new staff members in the Ministry of Health by the end of October, has excited the graduates of healthcare and the graduates of many different majors. The appointment of qualified medical personnel will satisfy the victims of our young people and bring patient satisfaction to the highest level. The European Union of all service staffs working in the presentation of health care services and the comparative numerical analysis of OECD countries are largely lacking against Turkey. Dieters, nurses, medical secretaries, paramedics, anesthesiologists, physical therapists, odyometrists, perfusionists, ATTs and many other major graduates need to create jobs. Our Ministry of Health has a negative effect on the principle of rights, which is equal to equal work, when employees are employed by a mixed employment model. For example, 4/A, 4/B, 4/C, 663-45/A, different business contracts and staff definitions, such as public defenders, are disrupting the working peace. We believe that turning public employment into a simple, understandable, one-type staff model would be more meaningful and appropriate during the fight against the epidemic. It is also an important expectation that the Returning Capital Payment Rule will be updated with new coefficients, while non-medicine health workers will be restructured by prioritizing the number of rotating capitals that have not been increased for years. The sacrifices of our pharmacists must be resolved, and their expectations must be considered. The increased drug consumption and unconscious use of antibiotics should also be noted. Public spotlights must be continued by increasing. Members of parliament, medicine, the medical equipment sector is the primary sector for our country in the President's 11th Development Plan. Once again, it has been understood in the period of the epidemic that it is important to develop a holistic drug and medical device strategy, which prioritizes the production of drugs, vaccines, serums and medical devices in the country, which creates the RD climate for this, supported by public procurement policies and production incentives. We see that the production of local vaccines, serums and drugs is vital, and we support nationalization studies on these issues. Precious lawmakers are participant of the project, along with the head of our Ministry's Office for Planning Medical Devices and Medical Services in the new organised industrial sector, following the goal of medical industry in the Gaziantep Industrial Development Programme. We believe that the implementation of the Gaziantep health valley, which is strategically important with the joint project, will meet an important need, as well as the spirit of the pandemic-fighting period. In our metropolitan province, which exceeds the population of more than 2 million, the number of standard specialists has been reduced to 50 per cent, as well as the number of patients from the surrounding provinces, as well as emergency patients from Cerablus and al-Bab Fellas, as well as the intensity of the Syrian residents in our province, the emergency completion of the medical staff has become a necessity, not a need for our province. In Gaziantep, there are 19 physicians who are the most intense employee of the battle of Covid-19, although there are 36 staff of physicians in the study of breast disease. There are 53 physicians with 90 staff of anesthesiologists in the field of anesthesiology, which carries all the burden of intensive care. In our town centre, we have four hospitals, although there are 58 staff of physicians in the field of women's disease and obstetrics. There are 23 physicians, although there are 50 medical staffs in the area of child health and disease, in which we are trying to reduce the rate of infant mortality immediately. In family medicine, we have 80 units available when we have 714 units. In addition, 26 family health centres and immigrant health centres, including 26 family health centres and health clinics in Gaziantep, completed projects, Carn, Yavuzeli, and Karkamiş, have to begin production of 112 health care stations, including 2, Nizip. All our citizens are awaiting immediate deployment at Gaziantep City Hospital. The construction of the 300-bed State Hospital, which is planned outside the city hospital and is absolutely needed for its presence in the city centre, must begin immediately. I wish our 2021 budget to be good, and I salute our Veteran Assembly, the name of Gaziantep.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0022par0216	Mr. Hayati Arkaz, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0023par0218	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish the budget of 2021 to the best of our country, our nation, and our state. I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. I salute the great Turkish nation and the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, last December, when reports of the coronavirus arrived in Wuhan, China, a Science Council was immediately established in Turkey under the leadership of our Minister of Health. Friends, this place is very important, an example in the world. Our hospitals have been compensated and our preparations for the epidemic have been completed. For two and a half years, in my medical talks, I have always said that Turkish medicine is far ahead of European medicine. Our struggle with the Coronavirus has shown its magnitude. We did not abandon our patients in parks, in gardens, like Europeans or U.S.A.; we did not discriminate between rich and poor; we did not discriminate between old and young. Right now, in health care and in our struggle with the coronavirus, the world is envying us. In a very short time, we built two large pandemic hospitals in two months, in Istanbul's Sandzaktepe, and Ataturk Airport; in 15 days, we built a nationally-accessive, ventilator device. This is an example of the world: it has been granted to many countries, to those in need, and we are still exporting it. So, in our struggle against the coronavirus, I thank all our health workers, our doctors, and all our nations who support us, thank you, may they exist. July 15th, along with the treacherous coup attempt, you know, on that night, the Cumhur Alliance was formed by the message of the Leader State Garden Bey. The Cumhur Alliance is a union of faith, the Cumhur Alliance has no secret agents. (MHP and AK PARTY) Together with the Cumhur Alliance, there was a necessary struggle with terrorists. I just want to say that in operations such as the Firat Shield, the olive branch, the Peace Fountain, the Spring Shield, the terrorists have been sent back to where they came from in Syria and northern Iraq. Today, 40 kilometers from our borders, at the M4 Black Road, we formed a line in that corridor; here we have the Turkish flag, the Turkish soldier. We haven't allowed the terror state that imperialism has been trying to build for years. On this occasion, I thank and thank our Home Secretary and all of our Armed Forces. Dear MPs, the Eastern Mediterranean is our country of blue, we cannot give up; we have laws in the Eastern Mediterranean, we have rights. The future of Turkish Cypriotism depends on the independence of the blue homeland. We drew the borders of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus with the blood of Mehmetchik, not the ruler. The security of Cyprus means the security of the state of the Republic of Turkey. Libya joined our territory in 1553 with the conquest of Turgut Reis, and we ruled Libya for three hundred and fifty-eight years. Libya also has martyr blood on every square inch of land; Libya has rights, law. However, the purpose of the Republic of Turkey is peace in Libya, peace in Libya; we have no eyes on anyone's land, and we don't need it. There is another feature in Libya; Enver Paşa and Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk went there and defended Libya in 1911, when the Italians drafted troops to Libya. There is a wound to the left eye of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, where the left eye of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is a gift to us. Greece is the spoiled child of the Westerners. Greece is the most supportive or pampered by France. France has a different purpose. France's main problem is that its colonies in the north of Africa have gradually come out of France's hands because there is now a state of the Republic of Turkey that provides peace and peace. The state of the Republic of Turkey is a deterrent, a great force; it is what the people of the region call my second homeland. That is the problem with France. A historian told me many years ago that the world's top five largest states always send their big agents, their serious agents to Turkey. I told him, OK, the agents are coming to Turkey, but aren't the ones in us more dangerous? Now, in these circumstances, we see that the agents in us are actually more dangerous.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0024par0228	Unfortunately... unfortunately...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0023par0229	Azerbaijan is a Turkish dorm. Azerbaijan and Turkey are two states, one nation. Baku, and Gence are no different from Erzurum, Konya, Sivas, and Ankara. With his glorious victory, Azerbaijan struck Armenia on the head and pulled him out of Karabağ. No matter how many Turkish and Islamic enemies there were, unfortunately, he ran to Erivan, especially the one with the PKK, the YPG, the PYD, the DHKP-C, they were all there. However, the same has been done to the Armenian forces of evil in Karabakh. I call it Azerbaijan. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] We didn't just punch Turkish organizations in the face with Turkish fists in Karabakh and Armenia, especially in France, all imperialism has been punched in the face by Turkish, who knows this. If France loves Armenia very much, it would have taken Marseille with it to build an Armenian state. Dear lawmakers, we know that some politicians are doing a draft constitution. As a Turkish citizen, we're very uncomfortable with this -- I'm speaking on behalf of personally and our group. We saw here that the first four articles of the Constitution had been asked to be named Turkish and Ataturk, and we were deeply disturbed by it. We can't let that happen; to allow it, it has to be printed on our body, we can never allow it. The purpose of those who want to do this is obvious; it's divisive, it's treason against the state and it's treason against the country. And I'll tell you, we know who's behind the door cooperating with traitors, and that's clear. I strongly condemn all terrorist organizations, including the drug traffickers who shot our children, our teachers, our soldiers, our medics. Anyone who can't call a terrorist a terrorist anywhere in the world has been declared a terrorist, that's what I want to say. Yasin Börür, Eren Bülbül, Bedirhan baby, Najmettin teacher, Aybüke teacher, their blood has not dried yet. No rogue organization can challenge the state, we can't allow that. (AK PARTY and MHP rows) You will both eat the bread and drink the water of this country, and you will be with enemies drinking our blood and dropping bombs on people's heads, especially the Veteran Assembly; it will never be accepted, and I strongly condemn it as a Turkish nation and curse it. Every state has its institutions and rules. If you don't obey the rules of the state, Pennsylvania, you'll live there in Pennsylvania. No matter how many traitors and separatists this country has...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0025par0237	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0023par0238	Thank you. ...there is also a man who never ends, never ends. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] In this country, there are those who are ashamed to say to Gazi Mustafa Kemal Paşa, "Ataturk" (Ataturk). We, Turkish nationalists, and the Turkish world, are honored to call Gazi Mustafa Kemal Pashaya. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] I salute the General Assembly. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0026par0246	Mr. Sadir Durmaz, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0027par0248	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budgets of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate. I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation, who are watching over us on their screens. Dear lawmakers, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism budget for 2021 increased by 19 per cent from 2020 to 3.3 billion Turkish liras. The budget, of course, will not be sufficient for a ministry that runs thousands of projects from urban transformation to social housing, infrastructure to public gardens, from zero waste to climate change, in many other areas such as increasing smart cities and protected areas. And when we think about the shortages of natural disasters, there's no question that there is a need for budgetary planning and rational methods. And to us, urbanism is not just an economic field of activity, but rather a dream of civilization. We consider our cities to be places that connect society from yesterday to tomorrow, where the awareness of being a nation will flourish and flourish. We also believe that societies reflect on cities, culture, social order, life and tradition. The most fundamental element of our cultural savings in urbanism is to protect nature and the environment, creating cities and settlements and sustainability. At first glance, the environment and the city seemed to be the opposite of each other, but our culture and civilization were able to combine these two areas in a balanced way. Of course, it is a pleasure to see that in recent years the ministry's work has tried to maintain that balance. Dear lawmakers, there's been a period in the last two years where we've been exposed to natural disasters in the world and our country, where we've lost a lot of lives and paid a lot of costs. It is a painful fact that we will suffer similar suffering in the coming years, if we do not take precautions against natural disasters, that we do not harmonize with nature, the environment we live in and our cities. You can appreciate that there is a balance between man and nature, and unfortunately, the 21st century has been a century in which this balance has been corrupted against nature. The growth of populations and rising demands have caused the air, the water, the soil, to be polluted and polluted as never before, to sustain life. The world realized that this issue could no longer be avoided, and put the recycling and waste management sector first in the face of unstoppable consumption. It would be wise for us to transfer more resources to the recycling and waste management issues that we've done successfully. We need to set up all his work on natural disasters that take man and nature to its center. A study that will cover the whole of Turkey should be found and closed to zoning areas, such as fault lines, creek beds, coastal lanes, agricultural areas and natural structures, and the establishment of the ground-sized plans should be resolved, and the infrastructure of regular urbanisation should be established. Mr. President, esteemed MPs, cities are like living organisms. In urban areas, transformations must be carried out by maintaining the identity of that city while making renovations. Otherwise, there will be cities in the future that have no identity and look alike. Urban transformation studies must quickly be completed with an understanding that puts the human life ahead of everything, especially the earthquake, the flood and the landslide disaster. In this direction, any shortages, including legislation, must be dealt with immediately. Inclusion of those living in pre-city settlements will automatically eliminate many problems faced in implementing their effective decision-making phases. Dear lawmakers, our cities must not grow to encourage individualization. Reanimating the culture of neighborhoodism, which exists in our tradition, where everyone is aware of each other and is concerned with each other's problems, their problems, and neighbourly relations develop, will strengthen our unity and solidarity. When our people come together to spend time together -- which means we find the nation's gardens valuable and meaningful -- social relations can develop without becoming a commercial element in the city economy. A sense of urbanism, where green areas are increased, is very important not only in aesthetically but also in creating new places where social relations can be maintained. Moreover, as we develop our cities, we need to take the utmost care of historical and cultural tissue. Our material cultural elements, who are witnesses to our history, must be protected, safely transferred to the future using the right planning and design techniques. While the outbreak of the coronavirus has shaken the entire world deeply, the precious lawmakers have also shown that there are lessons to be learned after this. Thus, the world produces serious government policies in terms of healthy nutrition and sports. For example, bicycle use and new bicycle roads have triggered new investments in many countries. We should certainly encourage our citizens to ride bicycles and exercise. In this way, the car will be able to free movement and socialize to large masses without need, and most importantly, we will be fighting air pollution by reducing our carbon emissions. Therefore, the number of bicycle routes and pedestrian projects found in our cities and areas must be increased. Dear lawmakers, our cities must have sufficient green space. The World Health Organization states that the green area per capita in cities should be at least 30 square feet [9 m], while 10 to 15 square meters [10 m] is ideal. In developed countries, the average green area per capita is around 20 square metres. Our local governments must make their target of the green area per capita in their planning work at least 50 square feet. Dear lawmakers, we must stop the waste of food. We need to consider and evaluate the fight against food waste as the most optimal solution to climate change. So the waste of food causes about 3.5 billion tons of carbon dioxide to spread further. According to research, about 15 per cent of our country's national income is unfortunately wasted, which means about 500 billion dollars a year. Our extraordinary process has shown us how important it is to protect our resources. To prevent food waste, just take what you need. There must be awareness studies in society, and our citizens must pay attention to the issue. Before we forget that waste is forbidden, we must take and consume what we need. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, another dimension of urbanism, no doubt, is the economy, and the most important economic element in our cities is our business. An environment where small tradesmen are damaged can pose a major threat to urbanism. The construction of the mall must be subject to a new assessment. The malls, which are the capitals of consumer culture, should be built more outside the city centers, so that both our tradesmen should be protected and the traffic density should be reduced. Mr. President, the Tapu and Kadastro Information System, whose foundations were laid out during the 57th government, including the Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate's National Movement Party, has been ensured that transactions can be made faster and more economically, and in the future, investments and upgrades have been maintained to this system, allowing citizens to receive more effective and quality services with the Tapu and Kadastro Information System. Despite the busy workforce of nearly 20,000 employees in the ongoing pandemic process, the Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate has managed to overcome the workload with the sacrifices and development of citizen-oriented projects, and has not afforded any setbacks. For this reason, it would be wise to provide additional payments from return capital to the employees of the Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, for each deed they perform, as well as a salary improvement done in some institutions. In addition, it would be a wise decision to open diplomatic missions in countries authorized by the presidential decree to allow our citizens living abroad to perform their deeds in the countries in which they are located, and to be assigned staffed by the General Office would prevent some casualties. Mr. President, the beloved lawmakers, the Nationalist Movement Party, which is very important in the area of environmental and urbanism, bases its approaches on this matter, which I've just tried to sum up, on the trust of the Atas, on the understanding of the future, and therefore on the nationalism of the environment. As the National Movement Party, we show our sincere proposals for resolving society's primary problems, while we are careful not to break the truth, not to make problems bigger, not to make abuse material. The difficult process of the world has, of course, affected our country greatly. Nevertheless, we have a state that strives to get out of this difficult time with the right and right decisions. In that sense, on the bloody and dark night of July 15th, we will continue to stand by our state as a natural consequence of our nation's nation's street and no political interests and negotiations are involved, our constructive criticisms, our political understanding of our national support. While our country is dealing with a lot of problems inside and out, while Turkey is on a multi-front line, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not, we are not the people who use national issues in everyday politics. First my country and my nation, then my party. We'll continue to call it after this. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Finally, I'd like to make one more point. In particular, I give thanks and thanks to all three of our ministers here today, who have done their part in the difficult pandemic process of our country, especially in the natural disasters that we've been subjected to, and who have shared the pain of our citizens, who have spent the night and the day, and who have done the selfless work, and who have discussed the budgets. I pay my respects to the employees of every 3 ministries, and I ask the Lord God to grant me blessings. For those who have lost their lives, especially the health workers, I pray for mercy from the Lord God, and for the continued success of their work. Finally, I salute your high council, that the budget that we are discussing brings good results to our country, to our nation, to our country, to our state.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0028par0267	Dear Sermet Atay... Here you are, Mr. Atay.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0029par0270	Mr. President, I have made a commitment on behalf of my Nationalist Action Party Group to discuss budgetary budgets for 2021, and the budgets for the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Security General Directorate and Migration Administration General. I hereby salute the great Turkish people and the Veterans Assembly, who are watching us on the screens. Our Ministry of Internal Affairs is a ministry that allows all members of our nation, in many areas of life, to be implemented in harmony with the arrangements that make our lives easier in every aspect of our daily lives, from providing services, security, security, and security. So much so that in the city, in the control and regulation of traffic on intercity roads, our law enforcement forces, day and night, day and summer, taking measures for the safety of our property and our lives, not allowing drug traffickers to make a profit by poisoning our young, children, victims of violence, women, vulnerable people, trying to save our cities from terrorism, work within the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The property of being a mercy society has not hesitated to take any steps during the human crisis in Syria, our country, our border neighbor. In the world's silent, distant human crises, our country has adopted open-door policy and temporarily protected the homeless Syrians. It is currently the country that hosts the most refugees in the world, with more than 320,000 foreigners demanding protection from our country for the right reasons that 3.6 million Syrians have not taken advantage of national protection from their own country. The leading role in the country's success and the construction of its own immigration administration is undoubtedly owned by the Finnish Immigration Administration, which is located within the Ministry of Interior. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are facing numerous immigration administrations, as well as irregular migration currents, which are engaged in the access to basic rights and services of foreigners under temporary protection and international protection mentioned earlier. Unlike our country, which has not lost its ability to be a society of mercy in the culture of fighting irregular migration, Edirne has shown suffering at the border of Bazakale, which has shown that Europe, in every environment, has been cruel to foreigners who have come to its limits with certain hopes, has resorted to inhumane actions. With this attitude from Europe, our country has provided them with all kinds of humanitarian help, just as it has not left the people who have taken refuge with us alone again. The Department of Immigration is also fighting human trafficking as well as irregular migrations, taking every precaution to ensure that the foreigners in our country live in harmony with our host. In addition to all of this, we thank the Ministry staff and the Ministry of Interior, who have also implemented many new projects, including KADES, GAMER, INDES, Open Door, and will always make things easier by wanting to create new projects and not content with them. These heroes of ours, who have made superhuman efforts to serve our government and our nation, of course, deserve praise and appreciation. It is possible that our ministry, which operates in a very large area, has some shortcomings. Our minister and ministry staff, who serve your life in order to compensate for these shortcomings, to serve the citizens without interruption, have placed our nation in the position of self - sacrificing service in the areas of both earthquakes and disasters. Projects that have been launched in the countries in which we live have been driven into chaos by the wars of power of attorney have been asked to be implemented throughout our recent history in various times in our country. While all this is going on, our government has determined the measures that must be taken, and our Home Office has carefully implemented these measures. 313,729 Police personnel, 203,019 Police personnel, 7.089 Coast Guard personnel, 55,609 security guards, and domestic security organizations in the field are being implemented in harmony with security forces, all measures against our government are being taken in full against all dangers from abroad and abroad. The best response from the principle of uncompromising determination in the fight against terror has been given in the field to the terror centers that have been driven by the aim of dividing our country, destabilizing our country. The point shot was destroyed in the source of operations and terrorist components, and continued to combat terrorism with social, economic, administrative measures. With uninterrupted operations, the strategy to destroy terror at its source has been adopted, so it has been constantly dominated. More decisively than defensively, the fight against terrorism has continued and continued. Depending on that, the terrorist's financial support, which has been restricted, has been cut off from logistics, and their transponder capacity has been narrowed down. As of November 2020, the terrorists have been circled in 76 large, 307 medium-sized 99.202 rural cities, 2,905 cities, and 102,113 domestic security operations, and have met the Turkish state's iron fist. Operation Claws across the border has been supported by the Inside Breakers, Lightning and Trap Operations, and have received very positive results. The PKK/PYD-YPG terrorist organisation carried out 2,817 acts in 2015, and in the result of all-out counterterrorism operations, the number was reduced to 287% in 2020, so its capacity to act has been reduced by 90 per cent. As of July 1, 2016, the population of domestic terrorists was around 2,780, while the number was reduced to 320, as of November 2020, so the average domestic terrorist population was reduced by 87 per cent. With the work and the decisive fight against terrorism, hopefully soon the PKK terror organization will be wiped out in the country. Participation in the new PKK terrorist organisation, 5.558, in 2014, remained in 52 (November 2020). As a result of his persuasion, he has fled from 1,856 terrorist terrorist organizations since 2016 and has taken refuge in our state. In addition to terrorism on the southern and eastern borders of our country, the work our Ministry of Interior has launched to help with border security, as well as to prevent trafficking and irregular migration, has been blessed by these studies, which have begun building firewalls with the Ministry of National Defence, supported by electronic systems. Our citizens who are victims of terrorism have been compensated for their financial harm, and our citizens' trust in the state has been constrained. In this relentless struggle with terrorists, some administrative measures have been taken. Three major cities, five counties, 34 districts, seven cities, 49 mayors, 93 city councilmen, and 115 city council members, and 85 village leaders, were suspended under the jurisdiction vested in our Ministry of Interior, under the jurisdiction of the Constitution and laws. The amount of $9.2 billion that was transferred to terrorism after these administrative measures was used for resources, investments and services, and they were paid $4.5 billion in debt in these municipalities. As of November 2020, 612,870 people were processed, 292,703 people were taken into custody, 96,245 people were arrested. There are still 25,655 prisoners in prison, and the defendant is still at large. The DEA had 1,135 operations in 2020, 2,295 people were taken into custody, 571 people were arrested. 262 terrorists of this organization were neutralized by surrendering 204. During the year 2020, 25 of our security personnel and 28 of our citizens were killed in these operations and terrorist attacks, all who have been granted God's mercy, 103 of whom have been injured, wish health and thanks. In addition to these activities, however, there are some issues that we would like to draw attention to. With the transition to the presidential government system, the General Command of the Gendarme and Coast Guard Command, which are linked to our Interior Ministry as a law enforcement force, are still managed in many areas according to the Turkish Armed Forces Internal Service Act. In this regard, the adoption of new laws of compliance has become a necessity. In many areas, police officers and police personnel serve with the basic laws of law enforcement and the Law on the same duty. In order to ensure re-evaluation in the administration, the Law on Police Duty and Legality must be reviewed, and together with the Ministry's Security Directorate's General Command and the Coast Guard Command must be converted into the law of duty and righteousness. On the other hand, various inequalities arise from social and financial rights stemming from different legal regulations based on the management of our security forces. This is the case: The inequality of the police department, which performs the same task, is immediate compared to the wages of the current senior staff, who perform similar tasks between the police department and the Policemen and the Coast Guard staff. In this sense, we feel that a new legal arrangement should be made for all law enforcement officers to be given the same rights for social rights and wages as part of the principle of equal employment. Furthermore, the immediate steps on the 3600 additional indicators that our police have been waiting for over the years are news the heroic Turkish police have been waiting for. It is a legal right and necessity to consider the lengths of our police officers in training -- such as in officers and petty officers -- who have served in our organization for many years and have often served in the duty of petty officers because of lack of personnel. In our organization, the only people who can't take advantage of this right are our veteran gendarmes, which is unfair. The legal arrangement for this must be made immediately, and our expert carabinieri must be taken advantage of with 3600 additional indicators. The military and security agencies, equipped with advanced technologies in the new world order, have become rapidly prone to professionalising their staff in order to use the technology they are also equipped with. This requirement was adopted by the Gendarmes and Coast Guard Commanders within our Ministry and taken serious steps in this direction, reaching 82 per cent of professionalism. Here, the most important resource in professionalization is the private contractor and contractor. It is clear that these heroes, of course, have volunteered to fight for the cause of country, nation, and holyness. But our heroic expert sergeants also provide for their livelihoods from the wages paid for these tasks. The unity and integrity of the country are not to be concerned about the future, our sergeants, who are on the front lines in this struggle for the safety of our state and who are the most martyrs in the defense of our homeland. It's against the right to leave their children, their wives, their fathers, to fight terrorists, to live in fear of being unemployed at all times, to be deprived of many social and financial rights taken advantage of by officers and petty officers who fight side by side even if they are retired. It is a matter that must be known that the defense of the state cannot be entered into the contract. The staff, which is the right of our attendings, our expert sergeants, must be assigned immediately, the rights to self-restraint, the social resources of the institutions in which they are in service, as well as the other staff in which they are in service, should be served equally as well as those of our heroes. As I end my words, I give thanks and thanks to all the martyrs who have testified in the defense of their homeland, God willing, and to the rest of us, and to all the sons of our country who have been wounded for it. I wish our country, our nation, our state, and our Home Ministry the best of the year 2021. I salute the great House.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0030par0295	Mr. Umit Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0031par0297	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the budget for 2021 Central Management Budget Proposal and 2019 Central Management Accounting Law Proposal of the Coast Guard Command, the General Command of the Gendarme and the President of Emergency Management. I salute the General Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, our country has devoted its material resources to counter terrorism, as well as the deaths of tens of thousands of security guards and tens of thousands of civilians without saying "children" as a result of over 40 years of terror. In our geography, these terrorist organizations, which the imperialist forces support for their treacherous intentions, and the collaborators inside, play other games every day to weaken our country and prevent it from becoming a regional force, and they don't stop arm-in-arms with terrorist organizations. In fact, the terrorist organizations that these imperialist forces have created by their own hands are forced to acknowledge that they are a terrorist organization when they start causing trouble on their own. The same forces, however, tried to change their name to us and the world as freedom fighters, by giving the terrorists they were working with, truckloads of new weapons, along with the old weapons. These are the best examples of the PKK's return from the PKK to the YPG-PYD, and from al-Qaeda to DAESS. Dear lawmakers, terrorism and developments in our country's borders have increased the importance of our security forces and relevant institutions in order to ensure our internal and external security. Two of the top institutions in the protection of the land and sea borders are the General Command of the gendarmes and Coast Guard Command. Prior to 2016, these two commanders, who belonged to the Turkish Armed Forces, were linked to the Interior Ministry following the July 15 coup attempt. The Ministry of Interior has begun to quickly adapt to other institutions and relevant institutions of the Security Directorate, the General Command of the Gendarme and Coast Guard Command, which have been collected under the roof of the Ministry of Interior. After the treasonous coup attempt, 42,503 people who were connected and have been involved with Å and other terrorist organizations were expelled from the Ministry of Interior. Following the removal of traitors from the security forces, the presidential government system, which took place after a referendum on 16 April 2017, has achieved successful results in its swift, efficient, and decisive determination to destroy terrorism at its source. After 6-8 October events to divide our country, and after trench terrors, the number of terrorists within our borders today has been reduced to 320. In addition to domestic Crimea, Kapan, Lightning operations, the Talon operations across the border have been neutralized from gray to red by colorful, blood-soaked, baby-killing terrorists. Our heroic security forces are conducting operations on one side of the land and cities, while our ministry's right moves to prevent accession to the terrorist organization have dropped to 52 · Global Voices this year. Operations on trustees and NGO-like organisations assigned to municipalities providing employees and financial support for terrorism have gained the public's support, as well as their eye - filled services to the PKK and to prevent financial support. The sit-in that the mothers launched to retrieve their kidnapped children in Diyarbakir has spread throughout the provinces, and, as a result of our interior ministry's convincing efforts, the number of terrorists have accelerated within the organisation and have surrendered day by day. In 2019 273 surrendered 210 terrorists until November 2020. In addition to these activities, the Syrian citizens who were there were allowed to live peacefully, and terrorist crossings across our borders, provided by support of Turkish Armed Forces personnel in the area of the Olive branch, the Firat Shield and the Peace Fountain. Dear lawmakers, institutions gathered and adapted under the same roof have quickly achieved successful results in the fight against crime, criminal and terror. A total of 1,17,000 incidents, including 3,579, have been illuminated or blocked within a year and a half because of the automatic fingerprint identification system used by the Police General Directorate, Gen. Gen. General Command and Coast Guard Command. Another integration project, established with a serious investment in 81 districts, is the Security and Emergency Centre, whose short name is GAMER. AFTER it was established, communication and information sharing were provided between police, gendarmes, Coast Guard, Migration and Population Administrations; GAMER was an important unit in the fight against crime and criminal. Another integration project is the units established for sea and land border security. The Coast Guard Security Command, equipped with a modern security umbrella with its coastal security radar system and land installations, has developed its structure in recent years to prevent illegal goods and human crossings. The Coast Guard Command, which has reached 100 per cent of the professionalisation rate, is one of our most effective institutions in the blue country, as well as preventing illegal crossings. Dear lawmakers, the General Command of the Gendarmes is the head of our top and highest martyrs in the fight against terrorism. In addition to maintaining order and order in rural areas from the day it was founded, the gendarmes have been doing very well to combat terrorism, drug threat, traffic security and petty crime. One of the most important factors in the operation of these successful studies is that the level of professionalism in the General Command of the gendarmes reaches 82 per cent. The increased number of professionals and modernisation in terms of equipment, after being linked to the Ministry of Interior, increases the qualities and achievements of the General Command of the Gendarme. While modern equipment was being used, the use of domestic and national drones, SIHA, TIHA, ATAK helicopters, as well as, again, national infrastructure and software has reduced dependency, contributed to the budget. The number of expert sergeants received in recent years has had a lot of impact on the professionalisation of the Gendarme General Command. Three days ago, the improvement of the rights of the veteran gendarmes we celebrated is the expectation of all our veteran gendarmes. Dear lawmakers, another agency that belongs to our Ministry of Interior has 228,000 volunteers and 5,797 personnel, and wherever there is a disaster in Turkey and in the world, the President of the Disaster and Emergency Management is short for AFAD. The fact that our country is on an earthquake fault line as part of its geography increases the importance of emergency aid and support, such as AFAD. The material and spiritual loss caused by natural disasters directly or indirectly demonstrates to all of us how meticulously the handling of disaster management and coordination should be handled in today's world. When we discussed 2020 years in our country, we experienced earthquakes in Elazığ, Bingol Karliova, Iran's Hoy-based Van Başle, Izmir Province, floods in Giresun, avalanches in Van, and forest fires in Hatay. Our AFAD teams have worked hard to minimize casualties in all of our provinces. I'd like to thank all of our teams from here who quickly meet all demands of disaster victims in the co-ordination of AFAD (AFAD). As I end my words, I wish God's mercy to all our heroic martyrs who fought for our unity, unity, and independence. I wish our veterans the best in life. In 2021, the Ministry of Interior wishes the budget to be good for the country and the nation, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit01spe0032par0311	Members of parliament, the nationalist Movement Party Group's demands have been met. I'm taking a thirty-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit02spe0032par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. The commission is in place.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit02spe0033par0004	There is no minister, Mr. President, the Ministry of Health budget will be discussed.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit02spe0032par0005	The Minister is here. The government, the administration is represented; there's no problem.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit02spe0033par0006	Shouldn't the Minister of Health be listening to it himself, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit02spe0032par0007	Our health minister listens to it himself, there's nothing wrong with listening; our concerned friends are here. But I'll wait five more minutes if you want me to.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit02spe0033par0008	Not from our point of view, but from your point of view, from your point of view.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit02spe0032par0009	I'll wait, guys, relax, it's okay. Look, our Deputy Health Minister is here.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit02spe0034par0010	May I say something while we wait, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit02spe0032par0011	Mr. Erdoğdu, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit02spe0034par0012	Mr. President, this may not be rude, this may be an emergency, but it is very important that the Minister is here physically while the Minister's budget is being discussed in Parliament. If we do this the way it is, it's very important for both the dignity of Parliament and the dignity of running it. It could be a human condition, it could be an emergency; you need to take a break.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit02spe0032par0013	Mr. Erdoğdu, you know how sensitive I am about these things.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit02spe0034par0014	I know.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit02spe0032par0015	Mr. Secretary has something urgent coming up. I only took the General Assembly on the stand so it wouldn't be rude because there's a representation of the execution.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit02spe0034par0016	But, Mr. President, I think it would be better to take five minutes, ten minutes instead of waiting. Because it may not be true that the Minister of Parliament is waiting. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit02spe0032par0018	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0032par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. The commission is in place. Yes, we'll begin the talks on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. Mr. Habip is missing, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0035par0007	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly and our peoples. Before I begin my speech, I salute all political prisoners in the person of Dr. Idris Bauken, Dr. Selçuk Mizzaklı, Yaşar Akkuş, Hasan Safa, Shevin Alaca, Ayhan Bilgen. Again, I honor all prisoners who lost their lives in the prisons of the political prisoner Kinyas Gülcan, who was taken away from their rights to health, and Ali Bochnak, who was imprisoned only because he read Kurdish mevlit. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear lawmakers, we've been saying on these benchs for years that as a result of the neoliberal policies run by the AKP (AKP), the Change in Health Program has viewed the patient as a customer and turned health care into a commercial meta. So, this policy has caused great problems and suffering in our country, in our geography. Global capitalism has tried to satisfy a handful of people by exploiting the body and health of billions of people for a small, minority population around the world, but today, a tiny virus, a nano-micran-level virus, has emerged and defeated the entire world. Once again, a poor person's failure to reach health care has shown that the entire world is the problem of the globalized world. This is why we recommend that health should be without money; it must be distributed fairly, equally, and provided in its native language. It is our recommendation from that point of view that this Health Transformation Programme be immediately abandoned and budgets for the public.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0036par0011	Health is free.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0035par0012	When you look at the health budget today, three-quarters of the budget is reserved for therapeutic health care, only one-quarter of which is reserved for protective health care. It is the duty of governments to protect human health. When you look at it, there's only one part of the health budget that's going to work, and that's medicine and medical supplies lobbying, construction lobbying. These policies must be immediately abandoned and budgets that prioritize human health. (PEOPLE RINGS) What am I saying this for? Dear lawmakers, there are around 450 new cancer patients in this country every day. According to World Health Organization data and data from a cancer research association in the United States, around 160,000 new cancer patients appear in our country a year. In that sense, we must immediately abandon these wrong policies and make these budgets public. Honourable lawmakers have failed to manage the AKP ruling pandemic process; Mr. Minister has failed in the pandemic, failed in the classroom. You're a failure, Mr. Secretary. (Applause from HDP rows) The coronavirus pandemic, which turns into a biological weapon, has, unfortunately, followed the herd's immune policy, causing the loss of tens of thousands of people in our country today, and continues to be the cause. They tried to manage the pandemic process with unrealistic data. You've altered health, you haven't explained the facts, Mr. Secretary, you've discriminated, you've buried your head in the sand.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0037par0014	What discrimination?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0038par0015	Where?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0035par0016	Look, in the world, when there's a case of coronavirus in every country, you've tried to put your head in the sand to make us believe this painting, like A News. Look, when there were cases all over the world, you claimed it wasn't you, but all of Turkey saw a retired soldier being buried in secret. Dear lawmakers, do you know what this painting is? This is a chart of the Republic of Turkey's Ministry of Health that has been disgraced on the page of the World Health Organization. Look, from the time they claimed the first case was released on March 11th, the cases went 1,000, 2,000, 3,000, but on November 25th, they raised the number of cases to 30,000, as if the virus had rained from the top. It's a terrible image; even Somalia's graph on the World Health Organization page is not like that, precious MPs, it's a shameful painting. So we think you're betraying your health because you're hiding the real data, and I'd like to emphasize that once again from this stand. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear lawmakers, look at the data from December 9th, 558 thousand and so on, but you're coming up on December 10th to $1,748. Mr. Secretary, not every positive case is a case. You contradicted science by saying science, you have been hostile to science by allowing scientific studies, and unfortunately, since you failed to bring in the vaccine today, you had to explain this data to the World Health Organization and to the international public. You didn't even manage to get a flu shot, so we were wondering if you'd be able to get the coronavirus vaccine.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0039par0021	Stop talking about hostility, you're being an enemy of the country.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0035par0022	You've discriminated, and you've shared the image of Istiklal Street, saying, "Maske, distance." But your president Giresun delivered tea, and you were afraid, and you didn't dare say a word. [[Applause from HDP rows]] The Minister sitting next to you has sabotaged the two-and-a-half-month process of combating the coronavirus pandemic, and you haven't had the courage to say a word, Mr. Secretary, you're scared. You tried to escape responsibility by uploading it to the people on Istiklal Street. Yes, it's your Mr. President's habit, he's very capable of putting the responsibility on everyone; he immediately said: "The responsibility is on the Science Board." He did it in the past. God forgive us, we've been deceived." I assure you, Mr. Secretary, he will do the same to you, and to the Science Council, I suggest you stay alert. [[Applause from HDP rows]] You know what this painting is? The meal menu in this table is a popular menu for health workers, a menu to be ashamed of. Look, the health workers say we're trapped. He's screaming, but the head of health is blocking his ear, watching tens of thousands of medics get infected, losing their lives. Mr. Secretary, give voice to the demands of health workers, pay attention, and at the same time, appoint 650,000 non-assigned medics. At the same time, start nearly 20,000 HRK health workers because these health workers have already reached the point of lifting this burden, they're exhausted, they're finished. They succeeded, you failed.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0040par0030	How does that work?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0041par0031	How is that an oxymoron? How can they succeed and fail the Minister?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0035par0032	Mr. Minister, someone went up to the Turkish Medical Corps and told the Union that they wanted cooperation and transparency, and you didn't have the courage to say a word. Look, you've excluded the opposition, civil society organizations, democratic mass organizations, trade organisations, you've discriminated. In the provinces, you can't say a word, you can't say a word, you can't say a word, you can't say a word, you can't say a word.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0042par0034	It's the terrorists, the terrorists who were thrown out with the KHK!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0035par0035	Not as much as you! Not as much as you!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0042par0037	You're the terrorist!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0035par0038	You've been to Pennsylvania, they're not as good as you. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, thousands of people in prisons... have lost their lives in prisons that have turned into Nazi camps, but you've watched them. Look, a human being in a plastic chair is officially sentenced to death in prison. As head of health, you haven't had the courage to say a word.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0043par0041	He put it in your hand, you!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0044par0042	Mr. President, put on a mask, Minister.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0035par0043	Mr. Secretary, the high-value lawmakers have been spotted in dozens of languages, but not a single spot has been made in the language of Kurds living in this country with 20 million.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0043par0045	You're co-conspirators, collaborators!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0035par0046	See, the World Health Organization made a spot in Kurdish, which was a spot called "x." We know you have an anti-Kurdish power, but despite everything, it's a Kurdish world language...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0043par0048	You're the Kurdish enemy, you!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0035par0049	...and it will continue to happen.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0043par0050	You're the Kurdish enemy!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0035par0051	You learn from this, and that's even a lesson for you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0043par0053	Separatists!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0045par0054	HDP is doing the worst damage to Kurds.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0043par0055	You're rude!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0045par0056	You're fascists, fascists!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0046par0057	Mr. Secretary, Covid-19 is a professional disease and an occupational hazard.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0043par0059	You're rude!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0046par0060	You didn't respond to the cries of these medics, you didn't convince your power, Mr. Secretary. You've blocked your ears, Mr. Secretary, even though we've told you in the area that hospitals are inadequate and doctors are inadequate.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0047par0062	You cannot say a sentence in favour of Turkey!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0048par0063	Congressmans, the ministers will give you the answer.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0047par0064	You are wherever Turkey has enemies.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0049par0065	Give account of the infants killed by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0050par0066	Two pandemic hospitals were built in Yeşilköy and Sandzaktepe. And they gave two of them unto the builder of the house, and two unto the builder of the city's hospitals.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0051par0067	Did you have to build a hospital?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0050par0068	You know who? Renaissance. You ally-worshippers! You were a supporter, Mr. Secretary, a supporter.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0051par0070	Everyone knows it's a tender.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0050par0071	Tuzluca County, in my constituency, has been serving in a hospital that hasn't received an earthquake report in years.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0051par0072	Who else built a thousand-bed hospital in 45 days?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0050par0073	You're watching, you're not bidding, Mr. Secretary. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, I'll tell you this: city hospitals have become the center of corruption, corruption, for the health budget that's turned into a tornado.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0052par0077	Shame, shame! They're treating him now.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0053par0078	Congressmans, Mr. Ministers will give you the answer, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0050par0079	Come on, let's nationalize the city hospitals. We said so, so we say.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0052par0080	What are you gonna do when you're sick? Shame!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0050par0081	In the Plan Budget Commission, in the health budget, we, the HDP, said: "Let's nationalize city hospitals."
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0054par0082	You're giving a full YouTube speech, YouTube. Good job.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0055par0084	Listen to me!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0050par0085	But you didn't accept it with your power, it was rejected by the votes of your power and by the MHP. Yes, the HDP doesn't provide solutions. You say, look, here's the solution: let's save you from holding hands at the gates of the London courts, let's nationalize city hospitals, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0056par0088	Before anyone else in London, you sit hand-to-hand.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0057par0089	Tell me about the mothers of Diyarbakir, tell me about the baby killers!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0058par0090	Do you know the citizens who died at hospital gates without city hospitals?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0059par0091	Mr. Secretary, if you shared the data in a transparent way, if you didn't share false data, if you didn't deceive people in turquoise paintings, tens of thousands of people would not have died in Turkey today.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0060par0092	Since when do killer lovers talk about humanity?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0061par0093	Learn to hear the truth, learn the truth.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0059par0094	Look, let me tell you, Mr. Secretary, this painting is still missing. You've written the number of cases here at 1,748 thousand -- yes, more than that -- but you haven't given the exact number of deaths correctly, and the number of deaths in this country is close to 100,000. They're hiding it, but we keep dying one by one, and you should be ashamed of it, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0062par0096	Your Honor, please speak, but correct your statements.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0059par0097	False death reports were filed in this country.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0063par0098	You're lying, you're lying! You're lying, you're lying!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0059par0099	The ICD codes sent by the World Health Organization were sent to the general order so that they wouldn't be used, and unfortunately, a Minister came out and said: "Positive cases are not cases, we have to prioritize national interests." Yes, you're protecting AKP's interests by saying "national interests." You're not protecting health, you're opportunistic, you're trying to turn the pandemic into a blessing for your power, Mr. Secretary. In that sense, we will always call upon these platforms to place your wrongs on the consciences of your people; whether you are angry or angry, you will declare people terrorists, we will say, we will say that you are allies. We'll say that you left the Zilan baby to die, that you humiliated Turkey, the country to the World Health Organization, the international public, we'll tell them that you left people to die in prisons.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0064par0101	Tell me about the Bedirhan baby, Bedirhan baby!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0065par0102	That's your wound.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0059par0103	Ali Bochnak was held in prison and left for dead because he studied Kurdish. You say you're religious.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0066par0105	You're lying, you're lying!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0067par0106	Lies, lies!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0059par0107	That's right, that's right. Mr. Secretary, my advice is: resign, resign because you do not protect health. Today, by not accepting this budget in this Parliament, let this persecution be said: Stop!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0068par0109	You resign because you betrayed your own people.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0069par0110	Baby killers can't talk about babies; you're hypocrites, you're scoundrels!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0059par0111	That's right, that's right. When you step on your tail, when you squeeze your followers, you get angry; it's true, it's true.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0070par0113	You're the one who's about to walk away with your tail stuck in your tail!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0071par0114	Congressmans, please... Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0072par0116	Dear MPs, there was another minister, who had turned the numbers upside down, we're flying, we're perfect, we're great, the world is jealous. He said, like the Minister of Health...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0073par0117	He's right.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0072par0118	He resigned on the Instagram page 15 or 20 days ago, even though he was the groom. Mr. Secretary, you said by sharing the turquoise tables, you mean a lot of followers on your Twitter page...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0074par0120	Get 'em, get 'em, get 'em, get 'em!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0072par0121	...so I suggest you publish your resignation on Twitter and ask for forgiveness from these people. [[Applause from HDP rows]] We'll send this health-deprived AKP government to the garbage bin of history in the first polls with our people, no doubt about it.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0075par0125	Don't dream! This nation has brought the EC PARTY to power.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0072par0126	Together, as all peoples of Turkey, we will create a Turkey that we will live in peace, in peace, in health, we will create it as the third road, we will create it as a democracy. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0076par0129	This is particularly the ruling group...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0077par0130	The Kandil loved you very much, and now you can be proud of your work; you greeted the Kandil, and you answered the PKK well; congratulations!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0072par0131	I'm not going to answer you because you're a woman. Women friends answer.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0078par0132	Would you guys excuse me?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0072par0133	I won't answer you because you're a woman, but Bank is in Pennsylvania, where you opened Asia together.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0079par0134	Get out of here!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0078par0135	Your Honor, take your seat.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0072par0136	The bank is in Pansilvanya, where you opened Asia together.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0079par0137	We know how you value women in Kandil.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0080par0138	Mr. President, especially the ruling group MPs -- we're discussing the Health Ministry budget -- they keep opening that mask and screaming at the loudest.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0081par0139	Just like you're doing right now.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0080par0141	But please don't take sides! I'm not yelling, I'm talking.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0081par0142	Mr. Beştaş, I beg you, I don't interfere with the content of the conversation, but please, our fellow MPs should be more careful with the way they behave. [[Noises from HDP rows]] I want the transcripts, and I'll share them with you. Yes, Mr. Semra Nice, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0082par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, before I begin speaking, I'd like to begin with the pandemic process, with great hard work and sacrifice from the very beginning, to greet the health workers who work for public health and to remember the health workers who lost their lives. Although they are only seen by the government with applause, their efforts are now saving thousands of lives in this country. What's the response? A negative response to the application to consider the occupational illness of Covid-19, which causes them to lose their lives every day. We have not changed a comma, even though we have voiced health organizations' demands and our own criticisms during the Commission talks on the Health Ministry's budget. The result: a pandemic process that can't be managed by over 30,000 new cases per day. Dear lawmakers, we really want to ask the Minister, put his hand on his conscience and ask him to share his answer and account with the public: is he willing to accept this budget? You see dozens of citizens lose their lives every day in the pandemic process; you see that your colleagues have been separated from life one by one by one by one from the people you once worked on for public health, but you are still protecting the interests of government and capital rather than fulfilling their demands. Healthy occupational organizations try to speak to you every day, we drown, we die again, the Ministry is blind, deaf, dumb to our demands. They were just outside your Ministry yesterday, and they wanted a minute of silence for the health workers who lost their lives, but they were blocked. Is that your respect for the health workers you so kindly remember? They lost their lives because you couldn't lead the process. The Turkish Medical Association has said from the very beginning how essential protective health care is to break the chain of epidemics, and the first step is to strengthen health care. Without the need for pandemic hospitals, the chain of infection could have been broken in step one, and the pandemic could have been completely contained. You've caused hospital collapses, medical personnel fatigue, exhaustion. There's almost no protective health care in the budget. So what is it? You have these fancy, money-spent city hospitals that you're always bragging about, and there's not a single pencil in the budget about the pandemic, which is our basic agenda. So what is it? Last year, the allowance for $10.5 billion in rent and service to city hospitals has been increased to 16 billion and 392 million euros this year. There are no additional payments to the health worker in this budget, no fairly divided additional payments. Just last week in Diyarbakır, 44 health workers' additional payments were cut from water for reasons. There's a Ministry truth, much less the additional payment, that even covets the right earned by labor. There is no study in this budget to make Covid-19 count as occupational illness. The budget does not even read about the rights of women health workers to the rights of the day care center, which monitors social gender. Dear lawmakers, the measures are inadequate, and in the process of the deaths of hundreds of our citizens every day, we have already crossed the threshold of partial measures that will overcome the pandemic. Supposedly measures are being taken, certain places are being shut down without state support, curfews are being imposed; supposedly curfew restrictions are being imposed, but workers are not allowed to stay at home until workers are given the right to stay at home. As long as the battle against the pandemic is not carried out in integrity, and does not look after all the citizens, let only the weak one be eliminated, and let the strong one go on. Here, the weak rings are workers and workers. After the pandemic, what will the health of this community be, the people who lost their jobs, the people who lost their lives because they had to go to work, do they care? If he cared, he'd have been more honest about the disease from the start. There's only one reality that a health policy management that's focused on such interests and the needs of capital has revealed: you can't manage it. Keep those who can stay at home; the poor, the workers who have to work, must go to work. The epidemic cannot be led. The health system cannot be managed by developing protective health care, adding a pandemic pen to the health budget, dividing 16 billion TL 392 euros of the health budget into freaky buildings like city hospitals; it cannot be managed by a small amount of flu vaccine, while there are 10 million citizens who are a risk group; you cannot leave the hospitals until the legal rights of health workers are suspended and die. Dear lawmakers, we are suspected of the outcome of this budget, which will be reserved for health care and will be used to protect the health of 82 million citizens over the course of a year. We're too many suspects because every institution in this country -- even the health institution -- has lost credibility. See, Turkey's Ministry of Health General Directorate for Borders and Coastal Directorship 2019 Court Control Report notes that the Ministry of Health's medical equipment planning is not realistic in the process of receiving medical equipment, ▪It is understood that the ministry really needs it in which hospital, which hospital is in line with delivery and installation, which hospital is in the stage of construction, which hospital does not have accurate or adequate information about the current situation. We are suspected because according to the Court of Control Report for the 2019 years of Turkish Health Institutes Chairmanship, 13 million 619,000 euros transferred to the cancer project on January 2016 were kept in trust accounts until the end of 2019 and no progress has been made on the project, and the payment for cancer research has not been made effective in the project in a four-year period, following its transfer to ÜSEB. In addition, Chronic Diseases from institutions within the presidency of the Turkish Institute for Health Institutes could be a private institution, but they were placed with the Institute for Public Health and were compressed. Again, the Genom and Bioenformatics Unit, another unit that operates under the Institute, was made in Turkey, rather than meeting public needs, more concerned about improving capital sovereignty and market width in health care. We are suspected because as a result of the activities of Turkey's Medicine and Medicine Agency -- although there are around 150,000 Parkinson's patients in Turkey -- Parkinson's disease, as well as the medication used to treat many neurological diseases, are currently not in hospitals that are critical. The SMA patients who resist the parliament gate are not covered by the SGK. All medicines, particularly the drugs that the SGK removed from its payment list, have increased by at least 30 to 50 per cent due to increases in foreign currency rates. Patients who can't get the drugs, who can't get the treatment due to the excess increase, are incomplete, and their relatives and patients are victims. We are suspects because there are earthquakes in the ministry, there are smells of corruption in the Ministry of Public Health, and they are alleged to be related to the purchase test kits. Earlier, USHASH had purchased test kits from a single company, and the accuracy rate of these kits was quite low, 40 per cent accuracy compared to the other masses in the market. The ministry has first denied these allegations, but immediately after that, those in the field have either resigned or resigned in a row. But as of today, there's still no clear information as to why the test kits were taken from one firm, how much they were bought, and how many were bought. We want to live, not doubt; we repeat a demand for a budget where corruption, interest, someone's capital is protected, not protected, but protected by public health. This request is not only for the Ministry of Health, but for the entire government. The destructions of nature, the disadvantaged groups, the distorted urbanization, the concreteization, the insecure GMO foods that are causing all of us to die every day, and they will continue to kill us all. If we can only look at the pandemic through a unified window, we can succeed, or we'll have more days ahead of us with pandemics. Yes, dear friends, yesterday the health workers wanted to leave these carnations in front of the Ministry of Health, and they wanted to make a one-minute memorial. For the health workers who lost their lives because of Covid-19, we brought them here today because they couldn't leave. Health workers have demands: they want Covid-19 disease accepted as occupational illness and legal barriers removed. And that responsibility belongs to this House, which this House must resolve.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0083par0164	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0082par0165	Come, all together, let the health workers fulfill their demands and let this Parliament do its duty here to meet their demands. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0083par0168	Mr. Oya Ersoy, here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0084par0170	I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0083par0172	Sir, Ms. Oya will talk about the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization, no problem. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0084par0174	I salute the General Assembly. We're negotiating the 2021 budget at a time when the public is in the grip of poverty, unemployment and the virus. So, is this any different from the budgets before this, before that, even 17 years ago? No, I don't. I am hungry. Is there an answer in the budget to the voice of the laborer who shouts out in the streets, and to the voice of the laborer, who screams when the police in Istanbul are handing out the counter, and to the boy who says, "I'm hungry." Is there an answer to the cry of the boy? No, I don't. So, are the SMA kids in this budget? No. But the mother who wants her child's health, who struggles for it, doesn't stand up to her father and do demagogy. There's a share in that budget. There's no public control of the railways, but there's a budget here for people who are planted as a show to the Chorus families. There's no budget for the peasant, for the farmer, but there's a budget for those who build the gendarmes and invade their fields in front of a village of Spectres who defend their land. Healthcare workers don't have a budget, but when it comes to paying city hospitals' debts, there's a budget. He's not in the budget for what's in the country for what's in the public interest, but whatever capital is in the interest of the palace, it's in the budget. This budget is not for the people; it is for the court and the capital. It is the budget of those who call it the capital. Yes, your president recently said that our country is beyond imagination 18 years ago. Eighteen years and you're still talking about justice reform. At the end of 18 years, you created a society divided into poles, political positions that hated each other. The Kurdish problem is not a part of this nation, but a problem for all of them. Your same president today says there is no Kurdish problem in this country.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0085par0177	There's a PKK problem.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0084par0178	At the end of 18 years, instead of a country trying to make peace in the world, you created a state that ran with an axe of war wherever there was turmoil in the world. In 18 years unemployment has reached 9.6 million, the foreign debt has increased from $129.6 billion to $431 billion, but you have completed your debt to the IMF, haven't you? Turkey has become Europe's second place in the inequality of income distribution, and 20% of the population gets half of the profits. That's right, you made someone's dreams come true, but they're not the dreams of the public; they're the dreams of a bunch of privileged members of the AKP and the UMP, of the patrons and the patrons and the interest lobby; those are the dreams you've made. You set a record on interest payments. In 18 years, the interest payment from the budget is $492 billion, this year's interest payment is 179.5 billion. So, what's the main money? There's no capital. The biggest part of the budget is not on education and health, but on debts and interest. Set up a new ministry, and name it as the FCU, which is the Ministry of Tax Payment. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) I warn you that the path you are taking is the way to create a new prayer for our people. Now, what did you do in 18 years for the other half of the population, for us women's dreams? In 18 years, the equality of men and women has been against the outside. Look what happened in the painting. Violence against women has increased, women's murders have increased, abuse has increased, child abuse has increased, the number of women demanding protection from men is near 2 million. If you're bragging about the number of women in parliament, remember, it's not because of you, it's because of the power of the women's movement and the help of the HDP.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0086par0182	Get out of here!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0084par0183	The Kurdish people you consider hostile teach you, women's violence and women's murders are not a crime. On behalf of women, how many women were slaughtered by men during the Pandemic period? How many women have applied to law enforcement for violence? What are the measures you take to implement 6284? As for the destruction you've created in 18 years, it's been visible to nature's massacres. Look, can these be imagined? You said no nature, no historical structure, no cultural heritage, no limits to looting and looting. Without hesitation, you have flooded the twelve thousand years of history of this land and of mankind, here, before and after the photograph. You've searched the bottomless well for treasure! It was unimaginable, what you've done with the bottomless well.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0087par0186	Bottomless Lake...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0084par0187	Here are the rivers of the Black Sea, which you have slaughtered with the Hesses; Cerattepe, here you are, the valley of the Storm, here you are, and here you are, the Kaz Mountains of my hometown, and the North Forests. Of course, no one had the imagination to predict the destruction of nature, so how could it be enough? To prevent this destruction, I salute our teacher, Beyza Üstü, and all my fellow strugglers here once again, who left his university and shared his knowledge and fought side by side against the natural slaughter, and fought side by side with each other, and now arrested and put in prison. (Applause from HDP rows) I honor the creek, the teacher of Hopa, Metin Lokumcu, who was killed while taking care of its water, and the subject of the North Forest defense that we lost last week. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Now the world is faced with devastating consequences by the same forces as you: the climate crisis, the earthquake, the pandemic, the flood. So, what do you guys do? You continued to speed up the Pandemide nature raid, making the first tender for the Canal Istanbul Project. You've brought countless advantages to mining companies, energy companies. Now that you have consumed the Black Sea with the HESEs, you are trying to slaughter the Aegean with the JESEs, with the RESEs. It's called clean energy, dirty organized energy. Again, public resources are being transferred to companies. There's a massacre of farmland, olive groves, but destruction is not limited to that. See, even the European Bank of Development and Development, which lends loans to these projects, says the JES is going to trigger the earthquake. The surface wasn't enough, you're attacking underground. To those who say, "We will die for a pebble or not." Do you know that 10 percent of this country's land has been sold under the name of the license? Just one example: slap Erbaa, Amasya Taşova. It's 60 percent of the area's drinking water supply, and you're trying to run a cyanide, sulfuric acid gold, copper operation in this beautiful place. Dear lawmakers, I will now come to the AKP's administration with the plague, and there is no time, of course. There's really no way it's gonna fit into the day to tell me what you've already done.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0088par0193	He's right, we've done so much.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0089par0194	Our services, right?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0084par0195	The destruction, the destruction, the country you destroyed. Now, from the first days of the outbreak, you've put all responsibility on the public, the struggle on the back of health workers. Of course, your goal is to run the government like a company; yes, you've run it like a company, and you've seen patients as customers, hospitals as a business. Mr. Secretary, it is your duty to provide equal, qualified, broke, accessible health care for everyone.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0090par0198	We've done it, we've given everyone equal, broke health care, and we're still giving it to them.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0084par0199	Health workers are running out, and what are you waiting for to accept Covid-19, as a professional disease?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0091par0201	Why did you burn the forests in Hatay, Izmir, Maraş?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0084par0202	Yes, you're very successful, Mr. Secretary, not under the management of health care from the beginning of the process, but very successful in the perception management. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) You have manipulated the mind of statistical science with your daily explanations. Now...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0092par0205	I gave you an extension, it's over.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0084par0206	You didn't give me an extension.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0092par0207	I did, I did.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0084par0208	No, you didn't.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0092par0209	We didn't?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0084par0210	You didn't.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0093par0211	Mr. President, he's just finished talking.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0092par0212	Let's turn on the mike. I'm sorry, I was distracted, I didn't.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0094par0214	So, last word, what shows the development of a country -- the deficit budget or the overpaying budget? The President's spoon is gold, or the presence of children trying to feed on garbage in the street?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0095par0215	Lies, lies, lies, lies...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0094par0216	Hassan Ali Yücel's Village Institute, or the burning shroud of Cübbeli? The luxury and wonder of a handful of minorities, or the happiness, peace, and prosperity of the whole community?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0096par0217	Liar!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0094par0218	By looking at 18 years of budgets, we can answer them very easily, and know that in Turkey's historical progress, you are an anomaly, and you will be history among those pages of history, so prepare. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0097par0221	Why did you burn the woods?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0098par0222	Liar!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0097par0223	Why did you burn the woods?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0099par0224	Congressmans, there's too much noise, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0100par0225	President, they've been gone for days, so they came today.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0099par0226	Save your breath, we'll be here longer.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0101par0227	We've got enough breath, don't worry, Mayor.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0099par0228	Mr. Slimstone. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0102par0231	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I have made a pledge on behalf of my group to discuss the budget for 2021. Before I speak, I salute our former Co-Chairs, our MPs, our co-chairs, our party headquarters and members of the party, our executives, our city general council members, and all our political prisoners who are currently on hunger strike in prisons. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. President, this budget is not the budget of the poor, the peasant, the worker, the worker. There are no tradesmen, no peasants, no farmers, no women.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0103par0235	You didn't look at the budget.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0102par0236	There are no young people in this budget, no health workers.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0103par0237	You didn't look at the budget.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0102par0238	No pensioners, no barriers, no army of unemployed, or rather, the people themselves. So we call this budget the budget of Saray and its followers. We call this budget the war budget. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are trying to deceive the public under the name of judicial reform.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0103par0240	The Justice Department budget was Monday.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0102par0241	You say "Reform" but every day you do a political genocide operation against our party workers. You call it reform, you throw people out of helicopters.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0104par0242	Yeah, you're lying!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0102par0243	You're slaughtering young people.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0104par0244	You're not tired of lying!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0102par0245	You're abusing and torturing people in custody.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0104par0246	Not in his own statement, in his own.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0102par0247	You say "Reform," you block the rights to demonstrations and march, and you give them constitutional rights. You say reform, you leave hundreds of heavy patients, prisoners, and prisoners to die in prisons.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0105par0248	Tell me who killed Nurcan Karakaya and Badirhan baby.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0102par0249	Mr. President, good lawmakers, for example: Abdulalim Kaya, 85 years old. He's currently being held in the type H Closed Prison. He's seriously ill and in a wheelchair.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0105par0250	Who killed the Bedirhan baby?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0102par0251	She's in no condition to meet her needs. He suffers from high blood pressure, diabetes, kidney failure.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0106par0252	My son was 17.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0107par0253	Shut up, will you? Listen to me!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0102par0254	He had prostate surgery about a month before that, and his condition remains serious.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0108par0255	Baby Bedirhan was 11 months old, 11 months old; did your conscience hurt?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0109par0256	Mr. President, if this keeps up, we won't have their group talking, and we won't have them talking.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0102par0257	I'll tell you why Abdullah Kaya is in prison.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0109par0258	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0110par0259	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0102par0260	It's because he attended a press release in 2008, which was made 12 years ago, which means that now 85-year-old person, sick, is being held in prison because he attended a press release 12 years ago.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0111par0261	They didn't write it right...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0112par0262	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0113par0263	He doesn't say anything to rest, so what do we listen to?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0114par0264	Again, because I know them well, Halis Tekin, Avni Fazir, has serious diseases, and they are kept in prison and left for dead, like hundreds of sick prisoners. Again, you're saying that you're firing people who aren't like you, people who don't think like you, people who don't belong to the AKP. You're discriminated against hiring and hiring.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0115par0266	He's lying!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0116par0267	You're talking about HDP municipalities!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0117par0268	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0118par0269	By appointing trustees to our elected co-mayors, elected by the people's will, you're gassing the people's municipalities. You're starving thousands of people who work for our Gasbedlen municipalities.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0119par0270	That's a lie, too. Yeah, say one thing right.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0120par0271	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0121par0272	Mr. Centipede, please. Friends, Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0122par0274	Guys, we're not gonna let your band talk. I'm telling you, if you keep this up, we won't let your band talk, go ahead!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0121par0275	Mr. Toğrul, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0122par0276	But it's not like that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0123par0277	Together, let us speak aloud: Let the trustees know that no power will stand before the will of the people. So no one believes your reform speech and no one respects it.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0124par0278	Find the truth in this conversation!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0123par0279	Mr. President, it's been over 20 years since the road construction has been completed. Looks like it's going to take a lot longer to build this road that the rants provide. The village roads of the districts of Kurtalan, Baykan, Pervari, Shirvan have been abandoned and have not been asphalting for a long time.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0125par0281	Complete his words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0123par0282	Our questions to the Ministry regarding the surrounding villages in our districts have not been answered.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0126par0283	Don't burn the machines, don't kill the workers!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0127par0284	It would've been over if you hadn't burned the machine.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0128par0285	Listen, listen! Learn to listen first.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0129par0286	You take a stand, we'll see, you take a stand!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0130par0287	Mr. President, we'd like to finally express from here that we don't recognize this budget, which is entirely in the interest of the public, which is the budget of the palace and the war. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0131par0290	Mr. Mehmet Rügüt Tiryaki. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0132par0293	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm going to talk today about the ruling of the party's state, a partyed state administration, the Ministry of the Interior, which has become the head of propaganda rather than Goebbels, the law of trustees who have ignored the will of the people and ignored the right to choose and be elected, and the brochure "Cities and Services that have been purged from terror." First of all, I salute you all. On this occasion, our mayors, Mehmet Demir, Adnan Selçuk Mızraklı, Cemal Özdemir, Melike Göksu and Burhanettin Şahin, Jahan Karaman, Remziye Yaşar Akkuş (suspensely applause from HDP rows) Hasan Safa, Ayhan Bilsen and Shevin Alaca (Applause from HDP rows) Nilüfer Elik Yılmaz, Usmezıya Esmez, Gülnan Topççu, Adnan Topçu, Cetın, Cetjana Kün, Kölkan, Köçan Köçan, Köçan, Köçan, Köçan, Köçan, Köçan Kün, Köçan Köçan Köçan...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0133par0296	Why are they in there?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0132par0297	...and I salute the mayors, members of the city council, members of the county general Assembly, whose names I can't count, with love and respect.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0134par0299	Congressman, a little slower, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0132par0300	I assure you, you represent the will of the people, not these extortionists. No one can doubt it. [[Applause from HDP rows]] The 68th Article of the Constitution states that political parties are essential elements of democratic political life. Yes, you need courts and judges to become a state. Yes, to become a state, you need a king, a king, a king, a president, a president or a government, but the first thing you need to become a democracy is political parties. If there are no political parties in a country, there is no democracy in that country. There is no democracy if the Ministry of Interior in a country publishes and distributes pamphlets against our party against a political party in the form of municipalities and Services that have been purified directly from terror in the name of the Ministry.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0135par0304	Against terror, against terror, against terrorist, against terror. Don't support terrorism.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0132par0305	Because this is not the competition between the two political parties; this is the competition between the Ministry of Interior and our party.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0135par0307	Your cooperation with the PKK.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0132par0308	It's a campaign brochure against a political party.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0136par0309	Your grammar is light!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0137par0310	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0138par0311	Don't take it personally, don't take it personally; don't support PKK.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0139par0312	See, the 8th and 9th pages of this brochure...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0140par0313	That pamphlet is the story of how the budget for municipalities was sent to the mountain.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0141par0314	Listen to me first!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0139par0315	I'll tell you, I'll tell you why I said that. The 8th and 9th pages of this brochure compare the number between the municipalities we won in 2014 and the municipalities we won in 2019. The ministry says that because of our work -- they had 103 municipalities, they fell to 59. The Minister of Justice and Development Party or MP does not say that, the Ministry of Interior says, they fell to 59.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0142par0317	We've uncovered your terrorism, your terrorism! [[Noises from HDP rows]] Get out of here, get out of here! You took the children to the mountain! You had your girls raped!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0139par0321	Now, in order for a political party to lose its mayoral election...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0142par0323	You had girls raped, girls raped! Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0143par0325	Guys, please, just calm down.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0139par0326	Guys, please. Is it possible that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is working for a political party to lose its mayoral election? Oh, no.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0144par0329	You have given the municipalities to the PKK, at your command! You gave it to the PKK inspectors!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0145par0331	Guys...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0139par0332	It's a party, it's a party.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0144par0334	You gave it to the PKK inspectors!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0139par0336	The head of the ministry, which prevents the work of a political party, is the head of a political party.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0146par0338	Guys... Congressmans, the ministers will give the answers on the stand, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0147par0341	He's giving it away, and he won't listen to the preacher!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0146par0342	Sir, the Minister participates in the General Assembly's work, just like the MPs, no problem.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0148par0343	Yeah, we didn't just fight the Justice and Development Party on March 31st; we fought the Interior Ministry party that tried to be a parallel party to the Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0149par0345	Where do the instructions come from?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0148par0346	That's exactly what we meant when we said that the governors work like mayors, the governors like the mayors. See, another example, Mr. Reverend Tünce, Deputy Minister of Interior -- you read this as the vice president of a political party -- goes to Batman, Batman Governor, and the governor of Batman, who was appointed trustee -- you read this as the mayor of the political party -- is holding a joint press conference, and he says before us, they left 300 million debts when we took over. We've done these services, and we've paid off 150 million liras.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0149par0349	Where do the instructions come from, where do they come from?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0150par0350	You're sending money to the mountain!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0148par0351	The information he said was wrong; we transferred it in 2006, with $60 million in debt, and the previous trustee increased it to 307 million liras. Now, the Interior Ministry party clearly supported the Justice and Development Party, supported whoever we were up against, even the Interior Ministry party nominated us, you know who? Diyarbakir nominated his trustee. In 2014, we raised 55 per cent of our vote to 63 per cent.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0151par0353	Get out of here!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0152par0354	The Home Office is in front of terrorists, in front of traitors. The Home Office is in front of the separatists. Doesn't give the separatists a chance.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0153par0355	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if you please...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0154par0356	We raised our vote by 8 per cent, the Home Secretary's party lost 8 per cent.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0152par0358	The Home Office is in public, in front of traitors.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0153par0359	Sir, please lower your masks while you're yelling, it's easier to hear or I can't hear you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0154par0361	Look, according to this bookbook, the Ministry of Interior says on page 13 is another reason why the trustee was assigned is because we run the mayorates by co-chairing the co-existence system. So, what happened to de-terrorizing the municipalities? Do you think it's terrorism that men and women run the municipalities through the co-chair system?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0153par0363	Congressmans, calm, calm...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0154par0364	There's a Women's and Men's Equivalency Commission in this House, and you consider that terrorism, too, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0155par0366	To prevent Kurdish children from going to the mountains.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0153par0367	Congressmans, please, calmer, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0154par0368	Now, it's said in the propaganda brochure of the Ministry of Interior party that about the HDP...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0156par0370	Yes, Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0153par0371	Mr. Aydemir, you may not like what Mr. Tiryaki has said, Mr. Secretary will give you the answer.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0156par0373	That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0157par0374	Mr. President, please... Guys, please... Now, it's said in the Ministry of Interior's propaganda manual that the Peoples' Democratic Party has made the investigations about you run as candidates. We've nominated people who have a criminal investigation against you. Can't someone with a criminal investigation run for mayor? Maybe.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0158par0378	It can't be a terrorist investigation, it can't be a terror! Not in the world, not in the world!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0157par0380	Is there an obstacle to our laws? No. Why? It's the purity of innocence. Besides, it's not the Home Secretary who's going to run, but the Supreme Election Board, the municipal election board and the county election boards that decide who's not going to run.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0159par0381	The Ministry of Internal Affairs will decide who gets laid off.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0157par0382	So we applied, did the Supreme Election Board, the municipal election boards, and the county election boards see any obstacles to the candidacy of our candidates? They didn't see it. Why? Because there was no legal obstacle to our friends running for mayor. That's why our friends were assigned to the club.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0160par0384	You're dripping blood from your hands, your tongues!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0157par0385	So, what did the head of this Home Office party do?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0161par0386	He's done the law.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0157par0387	I don't listen to the election board. He said, "I don't listen to the law." I, whether or not there is an investigation against you, whether it is a criminal case, whether it is a matter of duty or not, will be relieved of duty when I see an investigation.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0162par0388	Get out of here!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0157par0389	The High Election Board didn't recognize their decision, didn't recognise the law, so it's fun to try to block our candidates. Now, that's what we call a political coup. What does it say, political power?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0163par0390	Look how the terrorists get your cell phone; look here, look.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0157par0391	They're terrorists, they're terrorists, and we're fighting terrorism. We're bringing dignity to institutions that have been neutralized by terrorism. We have nothing but the peace and trust of our nation, you say. We will not submit to any internal pressure or external pressure to achieve that goal.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0164par0392	He's right.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0165par0393	Call the PKK, which the world considers a terrorist, a terrorist organization at the Assembly General Assembly, for God's sake!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0157par0394	You're saying he can't do democracy, whatever people want, whatever people want.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0166par0395	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0157par0396	The existence of our state is at stake. That's why you're assigning trustees, isn't it?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0167par0397	That's right, that's right.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0157par0398	That's what you say. We call it a political coup.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0168par0400	What do you think of the candle?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0169par0401	Anti-terrorism, counterterrorism...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0157par0402	Look, look, look, I'm asking you guys, just listen to me for a minute. On January 5, 1981, I'm going to give you a speech by the architect of the September 12 fascist coup, which is not pleasant to live up to the words of a coupger.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0170par0404	Complete your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0157par0405	The Turkish Armed Forces carried out an operation of September 12, 1980, which our entire nation joined and supported, apart from the poor people who were deceived by a number of traitors who tried to sacrifice the integrity and security of the country for personal gains. To restore the sovereignty of state and law, he will continue his historic task, which has no purpose but to restore confidence and happiness to his institutions with democracy and to neutralize anarchy and terrorism, until he has achieved the desired goal. Isn't he familiar?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0171par0406	We didn't come with a coup, we came with people!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0172par0407	The people brought the AK PARTY. He voted 50% for the AK PARTY, people.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0157par0408	But I assure you, I assure you, there are millions of hearts in this country that oppose this mind-blowing and anti-democracy mindset, and we will continue to be the voice of those millions of hearts. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0173par0412	Get out of here! Get out of here!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0174par0413	He's calling for a coup, look at him!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0175par0414	We're very proud of the inconvenience we've caused, so continue to be uncomfortable.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0176par0415	Mr. President, we can't possibly accept this conversation. We can't possibly accept that, Mr. President. This saint and necipative nation is in no way accepting what Mr. Tiryaki. Mr. President, our saint and necipative nation expects our Home Secretary to fight terrorism.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0177par0417	Is there such a procedure? Is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0178par0418	Mr. Diyet Dilan Taşdemir. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0179par0421	Thank you, Mayor. I salute the General Assembly. Once again, I greet and send my love to all my friends and comrades who are being held hostage in dungeons and our people who are watching us on their screens. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, we're interviewing the Ministry of Interior's budget for antidemocratic practices in Turkey, in other words, the budget for the ministry of right violations. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) This period, when the punishment is considered legitimate as a state policy, where torture becomes ordinary and the people who did it are protected, will be a black mark on history, as the 90s did, and will also be mentioned in the name of the Home Secretary. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, we are faced with an infinite and unsupervised law enforcement unit in this period of power. Some law enforcement people commit all sorts of crimes, executions without trial, but everyone's quiet. Traditional policy is protection, protection, and punishment, which is now becoming routine in our country. Look, the last example of this is that a young man named Kemal Korkur was publicly murdered in 2017 in Diyarbakır.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0180par0428	I thought you were gonna talk about the mothers of Diyarbakir.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0179par0429	But because our impartial and independent judgment found no evidence -- look at this photo -- he acquitted the cop who killed Kemal Korkut.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0181par0430	Do you know the HDP people in this photo, do you know this one?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0179par0431	Don't worry, he's judging someone, and the person he's judging is the journalist who took this picture, the journalist. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Again, Hakkari/de Dereli of Şerali, again Özcan Approval...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0182par0432	There is, there is, there is!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0183par0433	There's a picture in the back, look at it, look at it!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0179par0434	Look, Ozcan Approval, look, look.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0182par0435	You'll be wasted, too!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0179par0436	Look, Özcan Approval, Sertun, Şen and Vedat Sokci would not have been shot so easily if the cop who killed Kemal Korkut had been punished.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0184par0438	Guys, a little quiet, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0179par0439	If that cop had been tried, Rojbin Çetin wouldn't have been tortured in his house with a dog. Mehmet Sharif Çishkun, a tradesman in İzmir, would not have lost his life as a result of police brutality.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0184par0440	Minister, the microphone is off. What are you doing?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0185par0441	Mr. President... Mr. President... we don't accept this, we don't accept this procedure.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0184par0442	What are you talking about, Mr. Oluç?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0186par0443	Only 12 people died in the first 11 months of the year because the police failed to comply with the warning.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0187par0445	Get out of here!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0184par0446	Mr. Stonedemir, would you excuse me? Mr. Stonedemir, would you excuse me for a moment? Guys, wait a minute...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0188par0448	There's no such procedure. Open the Minister's microphone and we'll answer. It's a shame! There's no such procedure.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0184par0449	What are you talking about, Mr. Oluç?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0188par0450	It's an insult to you, we won't insult you, we won't insult the Parliament and the MPs. It's a shame, it's a shame! Like a man...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0189par0451	Sit down, sit down!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0188par0452	What the hell is this?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0190par0453	What are you yelling about?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0191par0454	You can't wave your finger!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0188par0455	Don't shake your finger! Don't shake your finger! What the hell is this? That's enough! A little interference, it wouldn't be so inequality. We don't accept, no. We don't accept so much inequality.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0192par0456	Dear Oluç... Everyone, please take your seats. Congressmans, please take your seats.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0193par0458	Why are you shouting!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0194par0459	President, will you shut him up?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0192par0460	Everyone, please take your seats.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0194par0461	Learn to listen!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0192par0462	Congressmans, please take your seats. Everyone, take your seats.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0195par0463	That's enough! No, you're not democratic, you're not neutral. That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0192par0464	Mr. Oluç, if you shout like that, I can't understand you in this noise. Guys, excuse me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0196par0466	President, I'm out of time.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0197par0467	Speech!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0198par0468	I'll talk to the president, that's none of your business! Get out of here!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0197par0469	You're going to do all sorts of nasty things, not like that!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0198par0470	Get out of here! Sit down! I'll learn from you how to behave!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0199par0472	What is the matter with you? You've been quiet for a week. What happened to you today? Don't show off!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0200par0473	Everyone, please take your seats. Excuse me... [[Interference between EC PARTI and HDP rows]] Everyone, would you please take your seats? Congressmans, please take your seats. Yes, Mr. Stonedemir, go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0201par0477	President, can you rewind the clock?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0202par0478	President, you can't control the hall.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0200par0479	Dear friends, please have a quiet meeting...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0202par0480	The minister is waving at us from there.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0200par0481	Mr. Secretary, if you'll excuse me, I'll give you my word on the stand. Guys, I don't understand anything because you're all yelling at me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0203par0483	You're here, you're showing off.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0204par0484	I can't hear you, I'm ignoring you. Don't show off! You're here today to prove yourself.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0205par0485	Sit down! Shame on you!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0204par0486	Don't show off! You've been quiet for a week, so what? Don't show off!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0206par0487	Please, Congressmans, let's take our seats. Mr. Stonedemir, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0204par0489	Mayor, can you take the time?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0206par0490	Yes, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0204par0491	Dear friends, the AKP is creating a serious polarization in this country. Citizens are divided into patriots and terrorists.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0207par0493	The PKK is a terrorist.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0204par0494	Anyone who opposes AKP power is either divisive or a traitor. Politicians, academics and journalists are being arrested with these charges. Look, the goal of this policy has been our party for a long time. He's systematically attacking our party. From 2015 to today, nearly 16,000 of our friends, including lawmakers, co-chairs, county administrators, and members of our women's and youth councils, have been taken into custody, and nearly 4,000 of them have been arrested. These operations continue without slowing down. A conspiracy has been filed against our party as an excuse for the Kobani actions.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0207par0495	It's not the public, it's the PKK.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0204par0496	Six years from now. Look, all of these friends of ours actually testified in this case, but it's official to avenge ISIS from our party.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0207par0498	He's a victim of the circle!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0204par0499	Look, our youth council members are being kidnapped, threatened in the middle of the street, and once again we ask: Who are these illegal forces? Where do they get their orders from? Again, our democratic institutions, such as our dear friends, DTK and HDK, TJA, are being targeted.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0207par0502	Mr. President, the PKK is calling it the democratic institution.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0204par0503	Our doors are breaking down at the crack of dawn, our executives are being taken into custody. Let alone the executives, anyone who passes by the institution is threatened, dear friends, being taken into custody.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0208par0505	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0204par0506	Look, this cruelty and this illegality didn't pan out, which this time...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit03spe0208par0508	Would you take your seat, please? Take your seats... I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0208par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. The commission is in place. Congressmans, the report has been reviewed. Given the speech in the transcript, there's no problem, there's a misunderstanding. We'll continue the negotiations where we left off. Mr. Taşdemir, take the stand. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Seven minutes...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0209par0008	Mr. President, when this persecution and unlawfulness fail to pan out, we are now being instructed to shut down our party through social media. Dear friends, know that you are not the owner of this country, and that no one should play nice with us. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) HDP is the bright future of this country, and you, at least, have a dark past.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0208par0010	Guys, I'm asking you, please... Mr. Ironbone, let's get you in the back.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0209par0012	Dear friends, there is an unregistered OHR process going on in the country for opponents. Look, the democratic events and actions that the dissidents want to do are either banned on the grounds of the pandemic or on the grounds that the governorships make a ban every 15 days on their own pleasure. But what's interesting is that it's banned in that city, but the AKP people and the NGOs who live in it and close to them are not affected by these prohibitions, and they can do these activities whenever they want. Atlasglobal workers who wanted to walk to collect their wages were taken into custody. On November 25th, women were not carried out on the Day of Fighting Violence Against Women. HES protesters, peasants, workers who protect their land, everyone is somehow involved in this violence. Again, look, it's really stinky. We're dealing with something we can call it. Look, a police officer who wants to pay a visit to a tradesman says you're going to ask my permission to pay a visit to the tradesman. Once again, the police can come to the press statement we want to make in Mush, and say, "Be smart, this is Mush." Where does he get his power from? Really, the practice of running the country, like the Mafia, is coming out. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, as much as the living, the dead suffer from this naked violence. In no time in history, the dead have never been called to account. All the scriptures and all the beliefs on earth have come to the funeral with respect. Human history is a history of respect for the dead in a sense. Because the dead have no ideology, and after their death, their judgment has actually been lifted from the earth, but unfortunately during this time of power, the burial rights are blocked, the graveyards are targeted, destroyed. 13 graves have been destroyed so far. 282 bodies were taken out of the Garzan Cemetery and buried in a sidewalk in Kilyos.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0210par0016	That's a lie, that's a lie.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0209par0017	So there's no place in humanity to hate the dead body, to destroy the graveyards. You only inflict unspeakable suffering on those who remain behind the dead, those who remain behind. Again, dear friends, we witness practices that do not search the 1990s. In the 1990s, tortures, violations of rights, the perpetrators were hidden, and the rulings were not publicly claimed. But unfortunately, it's a situation that's been adopted and supported during the power period. Look, on 9/11, Van Çatak (September 11th), the father of 8 children Osman Shiban and his father of 7 children were taken into custody while working in the 55-year-old fields of Servet Turgut, where two people were tortured and carried on a helicopter, and two days later the information that they were in a coma at Van Education and Research Hospital reaches their parents. In this hospital report, there is also a report of a post-helicopter injury, and 20 days later, Servet Turgut died. At the Budget Commission, I asked the Minister how Servet Turgut died, and he told the question a long story, even all the details of the operation.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0211par0020	You're lying. You've been quiet, you've been quiet! You couldn't say a single sentence, just one sentence! You're lying.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0209par0022	You told me the details. Again, the minister said that he was on the helicopter, and that Servet Turgut had been put in the helicopter with Osman Shiban, and then he couldn't explain what had happened.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0211par0024	Osman Shiban gave his statement to the inspector, there was no helicopter.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0209par0025	Dear friends, we ask you once again, what happened to the Fortune Turgut? We know what happened, but until the perpetrators are found, we'll keep asking that question until they're punished. Once again, I would like to address the people of conscience who live in this country: Ask the question of what happened to Servet Turgut (Servet Turgut) everywhere you live, so that all of us can be protected.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0211par0027	This year 28 civilians were slaughtered by the PKK, 28 civilians. You didn't say anything about one.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0212par0029	Mr. President, what the hell is this?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0209par0030	None of us have safety unless this perpetrator is found. Dear friends, again, our deputy told us what the AKP, which is the trustee and the isolation regime, has done to our municipalities, and I'm not going to go on and on about it. This is one of the reasons for trustees is the co-chair, which is gender egalitarian, and also the female libertarian system. I really don't understand why you're uncomfortable with co-chairing, so the answer to that question is, as a mind, as a conscience, we can't answer it.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0213par0033	Woe to us if it is up to you to have women's rights!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0209par0034	Again, look, you're terrorizing the co-chair system, but our co-chairs entered the election through the co-chair system, did the propaganda, the public went to the polls knowing about it, voted for it.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0213par0035	Dead lovers can't defend women's rights.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0209par0036	You are not above the will of the people. When you said the people's will, you've been promoting it for 18 years, then the will of the Kurds was not will.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0213par0038	People who make mothers cry can't talk about women's rights.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0209par0039	Dear friends, again, you've made the co-chair system official at political parties; it's okay when you're in the center, it's a crime when you're in the locals. Look, we believe that if a woman from the women's freedom struggle were sitting in this chair, we wouldn't be here today discussing these issues, these rights violations. Don't be afraid of women's systems, women's administration.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0213par0042	Tell me about your girls up in the mountains.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0209par0043	Again, dear friends, families have been placed in front of our party's Diyarbakır province building for nearly a year. A perception of our party is being created and our party is being targeted, our party's activities are being blocked.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0214par0044	14-year-old girls went to the mountains...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0209par0045	Look, HDP is an eight-year-old party, eight; the Kurdish problem is a hundred-year-old problem, a hundred-year-old.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0215par0048	You have no conscience, your conscience!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0216par0049	Congressmans, please. Mr. Ayvazoglu, please... Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0217par0052	They have no conscience.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0218par0053	If you're really listening to the pain of these mothers, if you understand their pain, there's one thing you can do, is rebuild the table that you've knocked over, solve this problem with peace and dialogue, and take the Dolmabahçe understanding, but unfortunately, that's not your problem.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0217par0055	Those words in your mouth sound so phony, ma'am.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0218par0056	Your problem is to wage war on HDP (HDP), to create a perception operation, to make HDP (HDP) a target. You're doing politics on mothers' suffering, so stop doing that politics. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Again, we don't approve of this ministry's budget, which sees its own people as a domestic security issue, which defends rights violations, legitimate, open, public. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0219par0061	Ask them what they've done to their daughters. Ask them what they've done to them. Unconscionable!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0220par0062	Yes, the last speaker is Mr. Hasan Özgünş on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0221par0065	Yes, dear friends, I salute our dear people, our co-chairs in the dungeon, all our comrades on the left, and the House of Honor. [[Applause from HDP rows, noise from AK PARTI rows]] Dear friends, here, our problem is the problem of dialogue, our problem is the problem of sanity.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0222par0068	He said hello, hello!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0221par0069	I have a wish: O God, give my wisdom to those who act so rudely in this House, that this place should not be a swordfield. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Some think they're gladiators; this is the arena, the arena! [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, I'd like to invite you to come to my senses, please. Look, I'm not going to insult anyone; let's have a discussion, let's talk. Where is this country going? Now, dear friends, there's a method for sovereigns, for those who can't rule: if they can't rule, they resort to lies.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0223par0075	Like you!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0221par0076	Second, he's resorting to brute force.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0223par0078	Like you!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0221par0079	What we're living here is the fact that the lie is lionized, that the truth is catified.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0223par0081	Just like you did!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0221par0082	Yeah, whose budget is this?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0224par0083	Public budget.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0221par0084	He's not here.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0225par0085	People's budget, people's budget!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0226par0086	What are you yelling about? We hear you, why are you shouting!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0221par0087	It's the budget for the ones who come to you as Harun. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Second, the palace's budget. Third, the budget of people who smuggle dollars in boxes; also, the budget of war, the cost of rant.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0227par0090	You're talking to the mouth of the man. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0221par0091	Dear friends, let me tell you something, we're talking about morality every day, we're talking about the Koran. Look, Bakara sur. 275, 278, 279 -- here I have the document, and I don't speak by heart -- says: "If those who see interest as a trade, the place is hell; if they do not desist, they will gain the enmity of God and the Prophet. Our duty is to save you from hell. [ LAUGHS, Applause ] Yeah, yeah, who's spreading it, who's giving it?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0228par0093	Save yourself first!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0221par0094	Dear friends, Turkey has two basic problems, two basic problems; one is the Kurdish problem, one is the democracy problem. Now, I'd like to return to you with a quote from Mustafa Kemal.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0229par0095	Don't shout, don't scream.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0221par0096	Yeah, I might not scream, but you should listen.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0230par0097	We're listening.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0221par0098	Now, dear friends, it's the order of the Council of the Great National Assembly on the Kurdistan delegation to the Al Jazeera Front Command, 27 June 1920... Chief of the Grand National Assembly Mustafa Kemal -- look at the narrowness of not reading all of it -- what he says: we find it necessary to establish a step-by-step administration in terms of both our domestic policy and our foreign policy. The right of the nations to govern their own destiny is a principle accepted throughout the world, and we have accepted that principle. It is estimated that the Kurds must have completed their local administration's organization by now. Now, dear friends, from another document, I'm reading a paragraph from the Izmir Congress, 1923; I'm reading another paragraph: by definition, it would be a kind of local autonomy, rather than to imagine a Kurd in itself. So if the people of which cities are Kurds, they will manage themselves as autonomous. (Applause from HDP rows), secret subpoenas for you, volume 2, page 323. Now, dear friends, let's not miss the truth when we're talking about morality here and there. Now, there's the Home Secretary there, I asked him. See what the Minister of Interior says: we can hardly catch our democracy in the 21st century, unless we face Sheikh Sait, the administrative courts, Sivas Madimak, Dersim.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0231par0102	Read before, before.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0221par0103	Turkey has three problems; one is the Kurdish problem; two are the women's problems...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0232par0104	Read the front of that last one you read. What's in the front, what's in the front?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0231par0105	You lost.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0232par0106	You didn't study well.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0233par0107	No, no, I've worked, I've worked. The Kurdish problem, the problem of democracy and Alevi. It also says that we, unfortunately, have solved our problems by consuming minorities. Now, here's the document, the document, it's yours. Now, dear friends, here's the thing: We can't adapt ourselves to the speed of your turn, like Mehmet Ali's Wheel of Fortune. That's how it is, here's the document, the speech in 2012.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0234par0110	That's the only place that applauds you, not everybody.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0233par0111	Now, I asked Nobleman to spy on the councilman İbrahim Kaya. In İstanbul, Musa Taştan, member of the Youth Assembly, Jahan Çifegez, Leader Polet; I spoke with them, made a statement to the press, asked them who had kidnapped them in the Commission. The IHD says: 150 people were kidnapped and tortured in 2018, 2019. I ask this Parliament again, are these JITEM, DAIH, Al Qaeda, Iraq? Who are they, Mr. Noble? Who are they, Mr. Noble? Answer me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0235par0113	I did, I did.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0233par0114	That's a good one, that's a good one!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0235par0115	I did, I did.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0233par0116	Let me show you this from here: Have you seen these insects inside the HDP in Istanbul? Yeah, two or three days ago. Who put it in, HDP or you put it in? Get out, explain. [[You put it in the AK PARTY rows.]] Yeah, yeah, we did.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0236par0119	They're the ones who built the moats.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0233par0120	Yeah, yeah, you're right, you're right.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0236par0121	Those who built the moats -- they built them.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0233par0122	You're right. Now, friends, the AKP people are leaving, talking about democracy. Let me give you an example. See if this is really democracy. 1954, Democratic Party don't know what 57 percent are, Justice Party 52.87 percent, ANAP 45 percent dots, AKP 49.98 percent tops. Whose votes are these? Votes for right-wing politics. Where did you get this inheritance? You got it from the Ottomans, from the Ottomans! Who else did you get it from? You've been struck by the blows, the medal of the Kenan Universe is on your neck. Yes, our idea is in power, we're in. You're in power with the coup today, with Ergenekon, sir, with all the other dimensions, with the Perinche mind we sold to you from the left. And so you run with the cults, with the Koran courses... you took the training wheel. You know what your professors say? It's good to drink abdest water. You forced it out of the book.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0237par0125	Are you the enemy of Islam? What kind of talk is that? It's dirty! Unbelievable!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0238par0126	Look at this low-life, this low-life!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0233par0127	Yes, with the governors, with the press, with the money, with the carabinieri, with the refrigerator in winter, with the coal and with the pasta. You've got the press, you've got everything, but you're so clumsy!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0237par0128	You're an enemy of religion!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0233par0129	In a manner of speaking, against the children of the poor Agha, we are taking votes from the people.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0239par0131	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0233par0132	Bring out the mad Abraham, and he will have the same vote. Now, what have you done with the economy? I just told you, you pay 50 million interest a day, you borrow $450 billion, and you get up, sir, and we fly like this, and we fly like this. 10 million unemployed... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, if we're going to talk about women's murders...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0240par0136	Don't talk about women! Tell me about the mothers of Diyarbakır! Talk about abuses, rapes!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0233par0138	What did you do? In 2002, the AKP's 2019 was 474. Here you are, both a Kurdish enemy and an enemy of democracy and a misogynist!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0241par0141	You're the Kurdish archenemy.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0242par0142	You're the Kurdish enemy! You're an enemy of humanity!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0241par0143	You're the Kurdish enemy! If there's an enemy, you're the Kurdish enemy!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0243par0144	Get out of here! You're PKK people, you're Kurdish enemies!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0244par0145	Now, what does the foreign trader say? He's messing with the old books.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0243par0146	The PKK is the Kurds' archenemy! Yesterday, you spoke of Mahir. You spoke of Deniz.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0245par0149	Yes, Mr. Özsun, thank you. It's all over.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0246par0151	Is it over?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0245par0152	It's over.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0246par0153	You were with Mahir, and the Seas, and against the United States in 1970.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0245par0155	Yes, thank you. Congressmans, the People's Democratic Party group talks have been completed.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0246par0157	But today you see the United States as an imperialist. That's the difference between the left and the right.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0245par0159	Mr. Özsunesh, please clear the podium.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0246par0160	Yeah, that's the difference between left and right.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0245par0161	Guys, excuse me. Please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0246par0162	Fifty years from now, you'll understand. Fifty years!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0247par0163	The Kurdish enemy is the PKK, it's you!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0245par0164	Mr. Ironbone, if you'll excuse me. Look, your Deputy Director of the Group is standing. Yeah.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0248par0166	Mr. President, he's been picking on our group for almost every word-of-the-moment time. I demand word from the bench.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0245par0167	Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is two plus one minute. I'll give you an extension in one minute, so put it together in three minutes, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0248par0172	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been taunted by our group for 70 minutes, but I'm going to sum this up as soon as possible.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0249par0173	Who picked on you?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0248par0174	The basis of all the arguments here today is, in fact, one thing, unfortunately, is someone's resistance. Well, first of all, if we agree to 83 million by respecting the democratic rule of law that holds us together, by distance from terrorism, and by contributing to our peace, then that's fine. In all Western democracies, this has come to life. Look, political prisoner, what does that mean? In this country, if anyone violates the rule of law in this country, they'll see the law of this country under different shackles, different curtains, guises, under the guises, under the guises, or where they're being taught the democratic rights, or if they're using that democratic right, or if they're in violation of the law code of law in this country, they'll see the law of this country. We call it the rule of law, the authority of law. In all democratic countries today, rule of law, rule of law. Everyone will respect them, that's one. Two, they call it Kurdish hostility. See, there are no Kurdish enemies here, there are no Kurdish enemies, except those who can't draw a line between them and the PKK. (ARK PARTY, VALT) Hatice mothers, Diyarbakır mothers, in spite of sickness and cold, what the mothers say there, waiting for her child to return from Kandil, said: "The HDP has ripped my liver out of me, and I have suffered for seven years, and I will not leave this door without my daughter." Where were you?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0250par0178	Lies, lies!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0248par0179	Again, they took my son from us when he was young, at the age of 16, where he was forced to be abused, he says.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0251par0181	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0252par0182	You're lying.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0248par0184	Now that you know Dilan, Karayalan was raped. You know well Lamia, Cemile, and those who were taken away at the age of thousands of children in Kandil.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0253par0185	You're lying.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0248par0186	Yes, did you say it wasn't finished?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0254par0187	Where did those silver pieces of silver go in Mardin?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0248par0188	See, if the trustees share the will of the nation with the so-called co-mayor of the people, the so-called mayor of the nation, Kandil. Of course he'll intervene.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0254par0190	Where did those silver pieces of silver go in Mardin?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0248par0191	Those who cut their wages under the name of the co-chair, the workers' sweats to Kandil, the contractors, the suppliers of supplies, the wrecks, the pits with logistical support, of course, within the democratic state of law...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0254par0193	Where did the silver go!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0255par0194	Guys, don't shout.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0248par0195	...have to enter within the limits ordered by the law and...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0255par0196	Mr. Toğrul, you've been doing this ever since. There you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0248par0197	Your friends in Europe will not be able to help you, whether you want to or not. Their troubles are greater than their own. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We'll have to pay for him sooner or later.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0255par0200	Thank you...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0248par0201	Here the Ministry of Interior is fighting for human rights and freedoms, fighting for the right to live, the state of law.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0255par0202	Mr. Özkan, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0248par0203	I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0256par0205	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0257par0206	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0258par0207	Mr. Altay, you've asked for word before. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0259par0211	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you and the Grand General Assembly. We're budgeting. I hope it's the 6th day of the farewell budget. [[Laughing from the lines of the AK PARTY]] Our main problem, of course, is the broken economy, the narrowing democracy and the missing social peace, but now we have a much more pressing problem as a country, which is actually a global problem -- fighting Covid-19, non-fighting, weakness in the fight, mission flaws and so forth. Let's start with the House. In Turkey, Mr. Health Minister is here, although he doesn't listen to me -- the average 10 per cent of cases are 20 per cent in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I'd like to say that as lawmakers, we're not giving a good test. Here, of course, I don't blame anyone, but I would like to say a few things on this occasion, Mr. Secretary, a series of things that you've started with good intentions... maybe not because of you, but in the end, let me tell you right now that the entire bill will be paid to you, Erdogan will get away with it, the bill will be left to you, and I'll warn you. But it was a mistake as the Ministry of Health: let's freeze the demands of employment, pensions, permits, and transfers. I'm kissing you on the forehead. If you said, "I think you'd motivate them more." I'd like to know who's tying your hands to get a lot of well-trained, well-educated health workers into the system as soon as possible, but I'm curious, of course, the Science Board... you're a scientist, yes, you're in charge, but some of the savings based on medical needs that need to be taken along with the Science Council...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0260par0218	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0259par0219	Is it over for two minutes?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0260par0220	Two plus one, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0259par0221	We're both exposed to loss of life and disease. I'd like to emphasize that the system should be: You should listen to the Science Council and the President should listen to you. From what I can tell, the system's working backwards. They're going to tell us that they're flying Turkey, they're flying Turkey, and they're raising Turkey, and I'm also economically, but I'd like to express my regret: as an additional performance fee, he's lying to a nurse -- you know, we're not going to come out without a document -- to give $24 a month -- to a doctor here -- to give an ambulance driver $32 a dollar, to really, really let him go, but watching this is the shame of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0261par0224	Are you uncomfortable with HDP's speeches, Mr. Altay?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0259par0225	Are you going to tell me why I'm uncomfortable?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0262par0226	You want it off the stand without picking on it, go ahead. Anyone else want to talk about Deputy Directors of the Group?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0263par0228	So do I, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0262par0229	You want it, okay, and then I'll promise not to pick on the Minister. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0264par0232	Mr. President, for the sake of equality...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0262par0233	I'll tell you about it later, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0265par0236	Thank you, Mr. President. Honestly, we don't actually have time to waste with you. We don't want to waste our conversations answering you. Here we continue to speak of all the problems, troubles, wrong policies of the country. Of course we know why you're so uncomfortable, but just because you're uncomfortable, we're not going to stop telling the truth.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0266par0238	You're the one who's uncomfortable, Ma'am!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0267par0239	Dear friends, let's not interfere with the speech of the Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0265par0240	You keep asking me to yell at you. You want unemployment not to be discussed here, trustees not to be spoken here, women's murders not to be discussed here. You don't want injustices to be discussed here; you don't want to talk about the desperation of millions who starve themselves, can't bring bread to their homes, can't find work, can't get a job, can't get desperate every night. Yes, you want the facts you share to be spoken of, as if by favoring the state's institutions, that you are the ministry, that I am the ministry. You want children who are slaughtered every day, women, especially, not to be spoken of. That's why you're targeting us, targeting HDP. You attack every day by creating conflict through the HDP, making it look like it is, every day, every day. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Now, what is it? Really, I'm counting, the content of the speeches doesn't go past ten sentences, ten sentences. Everything we say gets the same answer. We want answers. Remember Mr. Özkan, when he said that Kandil had not been proven that he had received a penny, but it was proved that the trustees had robbed the municipalities and turned them into onions. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Now, there's also the problem of theft, of course, there's the ban, there's unemployment, there's hunger, there's misery, there's a people that's been left helpless.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0268par0246	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0265par0247	Yeah, well, you don't have a single project to solve the public's problems. Since you don't have a project to produce, you think you can survive a threat based on the power of the state. We call it unemployment, you call it unemployment. We call it murder, you call it murder. We call it anything, you call it the separatist. You're the one who's against division in this country, you're the one who's interrupting. We argue that everyone should live together in Turkey with the same rights, but you don't have an answer to that either. The greatest guarantee of this country's non-distribution is Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) and the unifying power of HDP (Applause from HDP rows) and remember that as you try to polarize society, camp society, we continue to weave it around true feelings and beliefs. HDP is the people, the people. The people are here and will continue to be.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0268par0249	Mr. Lütfü, do you want to talk about your position or the bench?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0269par0250	My place.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0268par0251	Your time is two plus one, total three minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0269par0255	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Engin Altay, said the farewell budget. Right. There's not a single thing in this farewell budget, there's really no need to worry about the citizen. We talk all the time, but I'd like to use that time to ask the ministers a few questions, if you'll excuse me. Mr. Secretary, you've explained that 216 medical personnel have died of a coronavirus.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0270par0257	216.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0269par0258	216, yes. Do you have any work to do with the fact that this is considered a occupational disease? It has to do with the medical staff who died of the coronavirus? Do you have a supply of flu vaccines from 2020? Do you have enough stock, continue, continue to buy? Citizens are applying to us because they can't get a flu shot, and I want to know.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0270par0259	We have a flu vaccine.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0269par0260	On August 1, 2020, you promised additional payments, which would be valid for three months. Do you think this should be extended? That's what I want to know. You can answer from the bench later, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0270par0261	We're extending.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0269par0262	The additional payments are said to be inequality among the staff. In this direction, what criteria are additional payments being made? And if there are inequality, do you have any work to do? The additional payments say there's an inequality between the staff. They say $30 for the price of the vaccine we're going to get from China, they say $60, Brazil says it's at $11. Who do we really get it from? How much do we charge? Would it be possible to give such information? That's what we want to know. Mr. Secretary, there's also a serious problem with the medical equipment and the medical product industry. We've submitted a motion to investigate, our research motion has been rejected by the Justice and Development Party and the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0271par0266	Here you go, one minute.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0269par0267	Many firms have started closing. When companies come for payment, they say they ask for a 25% discount, and since there is no payment on this issue, there are serious setbacks in the supply chain. Do you have a payment program that will relieve the medical equipment and the medical product sector? That's what we want to know, Mr. Secretary. And no tax cuts. They say so. Doctors and health workers who work their lives for nothing also receive return funds, but they both receive tax cuts. These health workers who have worked their lives to prevent this from happening have demands from you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0271par0269	Thank you. Your time is up.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0269par0271	Mr. President, it's not over yet, if you'll excuse me. Minister, there was also a Deputy Chief of Medicine, and how far is he from the GATA? We'd like to know that, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0272par0274	Thank you. Yes, and now I will make a promise to the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Süleyman Noble. [[Noises from HDP rows]] I will promise you the bench, Your Royal Highness. Mr. Noble, come in. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Your time is two plus one three minutes, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0273par0283	Mr. President, highly respected MPs, I salute and respectfully salute our High Council. The reason I'm asking is only because of teasing, but if Mr. President allows, if our lawmakers show any sensitivity in this matter, I'd like to tell you in a few minutes about both the Van Çatak and this Kemal Kurkut thing that the House has been listening to for days.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0274par0285	Tell him in his speech, Mayor.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0275par0286	But the execution will have its say already.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0273par0287	I explained that in the Parliamentary Plan and Budget Commission.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0276par0288	Madam Secretary, without teasing...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0273par0289	That's what the bullying is about.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0276par0290	I can only promise you three minutes since I promised you no hard feelings.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0273par0291	Then it is this: One, in 2015, the terrorists we know were DEAS terrorists in Diyarbakır Station Square attacked HDP's rally and four people lost their lives and dozens were injured, including security guards. Then, in 2017, there was a Nevruz again. Again, there was a Gar explosion in 2015; again, dozens of people lost their lives in the Gar explosion, dozens of our citizens lost their lives.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0277par0293	And you sprayed it.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0276par0294	Guys, excuse me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0273par0295	On March 21, 2017, at a Nevruz celebration in Diyarbakir district, the police were naked from the police's security circle, with a knife in their hand -- so, this is it -- saying the police were running towards the crowd.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0278par0296	Looks like it's a pet bottle.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0273par0297	I'm going to blow myself up. That's the expression that came to us.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0278par0298	There's no such thing, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0273par0299	In previous cases, because our security forces need to take precautions on this matter, stop it. Since it did not stop after the warning, they neutralize it, thinking it could do any harm to the crowd and the community, and then he dies in the hospital.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0279par0301	That's the cure! That's the cure!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0273par0302	Wait a second... You will remember your own words. In the incident in 2015, both in Diyarbakır Station Square and in the Gar explosion, the killer is the state, the state has not blocked it.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0280par0305	You didn't stop it, you didn't stop it.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0281par0306	That's not what the court says.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0282par0307	Guys, excuse me. Mr. Toğrul... if you'll excuse me, my friends.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0280par0308	A knife is not a weapon.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0283par0309	We don't know what's under his pants. Let me just say: look, yesterday at the border of Viranşehir and Mardin, we know the origin of the DEA, but by being bought and taken hostage by the PYD and the PKK and their family around him...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0284par0310	It's a story. It's a story.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0283par0311	...we've neutralized a terrorist who smuggled three pounds of explosives into our borders and hid it in his pants.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0285par0313	That's a new story!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0283par0314	So, because his back was bare, he had no one in his pants with a bomb... where the state took the necessary precaution not to allow any provocation to happen to him in order to protect the HDP rally. We take this measure over and over again, that's our duty. [[Applause from EC PARTI and MHP rows, noise from HDP rows]] Second, the Van Chatak case. Look, I've told you this, you've kept quiet.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0285par0317	Yes, you did, you did!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0283par0318	You said to me: "Why didn't you tell me so far?" And I said to you: "I was sick, I'm sorry, I should have told you myself. I told him.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0286par0319	Is the government sick too?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0285par0320	Is the government sick too?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0287par0321	The government is sick, the government is sick.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0288par0322	You didn't ask a single question, today you call it a story.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0289par0324	You're not the government! You're sick.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0288par0325	Whatever you say, I'm not telling you. That's what I'm telling our sincere Kurdish citizens you're going to try to convince with your lies.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0290par0328	Mr. Secretary, I'll extend it for a moment. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0288par0330	We did an operation on 9/11. [[Noises from HDP rows, knocking on rows]] You don't want it, do you? You don't want the truth, do you?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0291par0333	What's the matter, you're in pain to see the truth? Are you having a hard time confirming that?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0288par0334	We did an operation on 9/11, where three of our country's children were killed in an operation on 9/11. One of them is Captain Mahmoud, one is Specialist Sergeant Sezer, and one is Yusuf Warner. So why are they martyrs, why?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0292par0336	You're lying, you're lying! You're protecting the killers.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0288par0337	Because, on 9/11, there's the house of Osman Shiban. There's a drone from Allah. The entire operation is under record with the drone. I'll give all the records to whoever wants them, and I'll show them that Osman Shiban is here, and there are two or three people coming to Osman Shiban. They're being followed by a drone around 9:00 p.m.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0293par0340	Thank you, Minister, the deadline is complete.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0288par0341	Can I have another minute?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0293par0342	One more minute, one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0294par0345	Does it hurt to know the truth?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0293par0347	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0295par0348	Three terrorists enter Osman Shiban's house. One of them is Vahadtdin Karayy, the best friend of Apoh, Murat Karayalan, Murat Tetorah, and Murat. They come out of Osman Shiban's house, and out of Osman Shiban's house -- I'll tell you now -- they go into the cave with this movement.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0296par0349	Who did you throw out of the helicopter?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0295par0350	Then we want the planes from the Turkish Air Force, the F16s, and the F16s, to neutralize these terrorists -- three terrorists, one on the red list. (ARK PARTY APPLAUSE) Then, I go on, one of the three terrorists who are not dying on these cliffs.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0297par0351	Until the last terrorist remains.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0295par0352	Captain Mahmoud, the hero, is walking into the reef with two of his friends. Since they haven't seen one terrorist... three people are being neutralized.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0298par0355	Mr. Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0295par0356	One more minute...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0298par0357	Mr. Secretary, time is up.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0295par0358	I'll leave the rest to my speech.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0299par0360	What did you do when he got on the helicopter?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0300par0361	We're fighting a terrorist.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0301par0362	We're fighting a terrorist. He says it's coming from there.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0302par0363	Mr. Beştaş, I'll give you time from your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0303par0367	Thank you, Mr. President. Kemal Kurkut, let all Turkey see, let all Parliament see.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0304par0369	You don't want to hear the truth.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0303par0370	When he was naked on the top, with nothing on him, contrary to what the Minister said, I suggest he examine the case file -- he was killed with a single bullet running into the vacant lot, with one bullet. Now, he says, "Kemal Kurkut didn't heed your warning."
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0305par0371	Lies, lies! What was Yasin Böre killed with?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0303par0372	They said, "Stop!" And why did he take off his shirt, and why did he have witnesses, and he said, "There is nothing on me. He took off his shirt for this. There's Abdurrahman Gök - journalist - who took all the photos until the moment of the shooting. I want the Minister to investigate this in particular.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0306par0373	Why is he running?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0307par0374	Yeah, have a heart, we're talking about a teenager.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0303par0375	I've seen this case, I've seen this case, I've been through the case file, I've been through it one by one. There's a video, and I wish our House had the possibilities, and I could have everyone listen to the conversation between those two cops. One cop says to the other, "What do you need to shoot now?" Look, he's dead. I've got a video, so let me turn on the video, and I'll actually turn it on and prove it. Now, here's where the Home Secretary cleared an execution without a trial. He cleared it! I'd understand if he said: there's a judgment, there's an appeal, it hasn't been confirmed yet. You know, a language course like this. He says he's guilty, he's got a bomb on him, our cop...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0308par0378	Mr. Beştaş, look, you've caused a disturbance again, it's getting longer.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0309par0379	You'll give the minister your time.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0303par0380	No, Mayor, I'm being very calm, but please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0308par0381	I'll turn on your microphone, please, but don't make a fuss.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0303par0382	Yeah, I'm talking about a case that I know very well, and I know it very well.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0308par0383	But you blamed the Minister, so no, there's teasing.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0303par0384	I blame the minister, he defends the execution without a trial.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0308par0385	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0303par0386	Defended.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0310par0387	That's what the minister said.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0303par0388	Look, I reject your language. He can't justify a murder here. 1 person has been acquitted in the Kemal Kurkut case, and 78 police have filed charges against the court committee. Let him go and work some more, please. Those 78 cops haven't been tried yet. I understood why the acquittal was issued here, I knew, I understood a little bit more, I was convinced. I'm asking the Minister, if there's ever been a single file that's been killed by law enforcement like this, bring it in. I don't have time. The fortune is dead, Turgut is dead. I mean, after he died, you guys could've...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0311par0391	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0303par0392	I'm finishing.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0311par0393	I'll take your last word.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0303par0394	What we expect from the Home Office is that 83 million citizens protect the safety of lives and property, that's your basic duty.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0312par0395	He is.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0313par0396	Then you'll call the PKK a terrorist organization, and the safety of lives and property will be guaranteed. You will stop leaning on the PKK.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0303par0397	You're on the side of the issues where your own citizen has been murdered, tortured, or raped, the people, the citizens, you have to stand up to whoever's killing there. You can appreciate that by the Constitution, governments and governments have objective responsibility. For whatever reason a citizen has lost his life, you're still responsible, and I expect you to apologize in our case of Kemal Kurkut, and I expect you to accept that you interfered with the judiciary. I hope you'll explain that in your speech. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0314par0400	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0315par0403	Mr. President, it's been said that an elephant passes through a mouse, that's the way. Mr. Secretary, you've broken the principle, naturally the principle is broken, it's gone.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0314par0404	No, the principle stands. The principle applies to you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0315par0405	No, sir, it can't. That's not gonna happen, but I made a promise that since we're talking about budgets yesterday, Mr. Naci Bostanci, president of the AK PARTY Group, denied a number that I gave him yesterday. I was just saying, let's not invade Parliament's time, I'll give you an answer tomorrow. The point was that I had shown the minimum wage rates of the President's salary with the countries, and I had said that the President's salary was 30 times the minimum wage.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0316par0407	You said 70 times.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0317par0408	No, you said 70.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0315par0409	Then Mr. Bostanci came here... I said 30, you'll see the report. Why do you feel uncomfortable? When you say ace, you're uncomfortable, minimum wage. So... let's save time.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0318par0412	Guys, it's all on the record, relax.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0315par0413	And the result... and I was wrong to say that I said 30 times, but it's 35 times, that's right, 35 times. But the numbers Mr. Bostanci gave are completely wrong. I hereby call upon the minimum wage detection commission. Now, Mr. Bostanci, in 1999 the Prime Minister's salary is 23 times the minimum salary; 23 where, 70? What a shame. Twenty-three floors, official number. (EC PARTY RINGS) And in 2002...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0319par0414	President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0315par0415	The president's low, and the President's less. The salary of Demirel was 13 times the minimum salary of Erdogan, 35 times the number of the minimum wage, since you asked him to deposit it in the lake of light.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0320par0417	That's not what you said last night.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0321par0418	Guys, please...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0315par0419	And Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0321par0421	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0315par0422	In 2004, 8 times in 2002. I mean, it's never been 70 times as Mr. Bostanci said.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0322par0423	You said...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0315par0424	May his dwelling be in heaven; his salary is 13 times the minimum; now 35 times the minimum wage. I offer it to the people of the Saints. We're budgeting here. We're not doing polemics.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0323par0426	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0324par0427	Mr. Özkan, without further ado... Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0323par0430	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, Mr. Group Deputy Director Engin Altay, it's really important that they have no concern about the statements made by HDP MPs regarding our national security and social peace, and they have never spoken about it.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0324par0433	You've caused a new taunt. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0323par0434	I picked on you, sir. I deliberately picked on you. Secondly, yesterday, the same incidents, the same mistakes, Mr. Altay expressed. Look, we've been budgeting the nation for 19 years under the leadership of our President, so we're offering the resources of our nation to the services of our nation with the highest interest. [[Noises from CHP and HDP rows]] Are we discussing the percentage of minimum wage on the President's salary? You know, in your favorite Ahmet Necdet Sezer period, the salary difference between the President's salary and minimum wage is 70 times that, 70 times that. He's lying! He's lying! Is it 30 or 35 in the meantime? Look, we're gonna take it further down. In 18 years' time, laborers, laborers, we've already covered that difference. Hopefully, the minimum wage will be announced soon, and everyone will be able to see that the difference is much more closed. Under the leadership of our president, this budget is the budget of the nation; it is the budget of the worker, the worker, the employee. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0325par0442	Guys, I can't hear you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0326par0443	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0325par0444	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0326par0445	I want to speak of the bench, by accusing me of being insensitive to national issues and anti-terrorism.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0327par0446	Yes, I did, on purpose.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0325par0447	He did it on purpose, on purpose, on purpose. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'm telling you from here, Mr. Cahit, you're a liar. Now, if you sue me, 5,000 lira will be lawful to you like your mother's white milk, like your mother's white milk. That's the wrong number. [[You can't call the AK PARTY a liar.]] Look, we're talking budgets, we're not talking minimum wage, but what are we talking about, Congressman?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0328par0455	You've changed the subject, there's talk of terror.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0329par0456	I'll talk about terrorism, don't worry. Yilmaz, we talk about terror.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0330par0458	You're not talking about terror.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0329par0459	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0331par0460	Congressmans, he hasn't started talking yet, let's hear it.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0329par0461	Yeah, I stepped in the right place, and they jumped. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, I'll say it again -- let him lie in the lake of Nur -- Suleiman Demirel was president, and his salary was 13 times the minimum wage. Come rot here, it'll look like Erdogan. The money Recep Tayyip Erdogan received is clear, brother. Now, at one time in Turkey, MPs, prime ministers were getting paid lower than senior public bureaucrats. And He confirmed him by a criterion (of right and wrong).
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0332par0464	Mr. Engin, your salary has also been reduced.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0329par0465	Let's get to the terror business. Like this, HDP...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0333par0467	Guys, give me a break.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0329par0468	What did Mr. Cahit say? You're not criticizing the HDP, he said. A party with 6 million votes is sitting here.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0334par0469	How much did you put in trust?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0329par0470	Now, tomorrow, the HDP MP will sit here, HDPlı...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0334par0471	How much did you vote for?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0335par0472	Mr. Strawberry, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Strawberry...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0329par0473	You don't even know what you're talking about.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0334par0474	Tell me how many votes have been transferred from CHP.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0329par0475	The Deputy Speaker of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) will sit here. Mr. Cahit!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0336par0476	I'm listening.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0329par0477	The HDP MP will sit here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You'll get up, button your jacket, raise your hand and ask for a promise.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0337par0481	Finish your words, I've given you an extension. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0338par0483	I mean, that's the office.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0337par0484	Congressman, I don't understand anything.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0339par0485	Friends, you can't cover your embarrassment by harassing me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0340par0486	Not at all.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0339par0487	Speak properly, don't harass me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0340par0488	You're going around, you're going around, Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0339par0489	Now, about the terror thing. Before July 15th, we thought of him as a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0341par0490	The Kurdistan
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0342par0491	To hell with the PKK.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0343par0492	No, your president didn't.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0344par0493	We have seen ISIS as a terrorist organization since 2007, since 2006.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0343par0494	Your president couldn't call you a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0344par0495	We have considered, described, and cursed the PKK as a terrorist organization since 84. But like you, when it comes to our work, we don't say "Mr. Ocalan" when it doesn't come to our work. We've always called him a terrorist.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0345par0497	Mr. Altay, finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0346par0498	Will you continue to study the Constitution with a party supporting the PKK?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0344par0499	But we don't say that you are a terrorist, based on the principle of the causality of innocence before his guilt is finalized.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0346par0501	Do you continue to study the Constitution with HDP?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0344par0502	That's the difference between you and me. As for HDP. They're defending themselves. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0347par0504	You're just defending me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0344par0505	Mr. Cahit asked me about my opinion on HDP.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0348par0506	You're just going on about it.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0349par0507	Guys, look, I can't follow, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0344par0508	If you criminize a political party with 6 million votes, if you terrorize it, you'll have already divided Turkey into heads. Then stop saying one country, one flag, one state, one nation. We have a certain attitude.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0350par0509	Are you afraid your alliance will be harmed? Why can't you criticize HDP?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0344par0510	If we go further, I will say here what Erdogan said, not what we said about the PKK, not what we said about Apophis. Thank you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Cahit.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0351par0514	If you are defending HDP, why are you making secret partnerships with HDP People's Party (HDP)?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0352par0515	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0353par0516	He said to you, "You are liars." [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Özkan, I beg you to answer without any further provocation.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0352par0520	Mr. President, I am grateful that we have first brought the Republican People's Party to a line of respect and appreciation based on the authority taken from the nation by the EC PARTY, which has received 26 million votes from the nation. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Because before that, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, He said, "We will not applaud you even if you do the best work in the world, or if you keep a bird in your mouth." So if you're going to shut up about getting a vote like that, it's a problem if you're going to lie on your ear about terror propaganda, national security. On the other hand, under the leadership of our President, the budgets we've prepared for 18 years have traveled a great distance to ensure income justice in this country; to close the scissors between the president's purchase and the minimum wager; to this point, our country's economic resources are being shared based on justice and rights, and this is the goal of all the terrorist organizations, the PKK, the DEAS, the DHKP-C, the interest barons, the arms traders, all the debate. Look, no matter how hard you struggle, no matter what you do, by God's permission, we will continue to give the right to work in this country, to ensure that everyone respects democratic law in this country, and to rule over the rule of law in this country. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0354par0525	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0352par0526	No hard feelings, sir. Nothing, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0355par0527	I want to talk to you about bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0354par0528	So do I.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0356par0529	What did he say, pick on you, tell you nothing?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0357par0530	Oh, my God, how could he not say that? Shame on you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0356par0531	Guys, excuse me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0358par0532	By taking 6 million votes and promoting terrorism...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0359par0533	He's right, he's right.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0360par0534	I have a request.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0361par0535	Here you go. That's what he said, it's true.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0362par0538	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, right now, we're always discussing these issues, but we're discussing the budget issue, and we're going to discuss it one more time. We actually want to talk about the budget every time, but you don't give up because you don't have a lot to say about the budget.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0363par0542	But you terrorize, you terrorize.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0364par0543	Guys, excuse me, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0362par0544	...because you don't have the answers to the multi-crisis in economics and social areas, you always want to keep it that way by pulling the argument somewhere else. We'll answer that, too.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0365par0545	You're lying. It's your job to lie.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0362par0546	Look, I've said this over and over again from this stand, and I'm going to say it again. We are fighting for democracy, freedom, equality, peace and justice as the People's Democratic Party, and we are continuing our decisive position on this issue, our firm position in democratic politics, despite all your attacks. I don't mean verbal attacks, despite your separate, actual attacks -- all of our friends, who are democratic policy makers, have been detained and arrested, but despite the fact that the county raided our buildings, we continue to remain uncompromising and determined on democratic politics. That's one. Number two, there's either an urban legend, and I want to give you an answer, separatism. Look, I'm telling you very clearly, the People's Democratic Party is not a party that divides the country and wants to divide the country, but its integrity is a party that advocates unity, but it is a party that struggles to keep all citizens living in equal conditions, including the Kurdish people. We're fighting for a common country, democratic republic. And I'll tell you the third urban legend that we're going to continue this discussion when the opportunity arises: it's a matter of unitary state. Look, look, Congressmans...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0366par0548	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0362par0549	You open our 2018 election manifesto...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0367par0550	Is the PKK a terrorist organization or not?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0368par0551	They won't, they won't.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0362par0552	...the 7th and 8th pages. I'm talking about the election declaration of the HDP, which we, our group, have chosen. The way to solve all of our problems in Turkey, including the Kurdish problem, is not to reject the unitary state, but to address them, discuss them in the unitary state structure, through dialogue, through negotiation and social reconciliation. So we'll always be able to respond to the urban myths of separatism, unitary state, etcetera, to the fact that you're telling the public that it's not true.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0367par0553	Is the PKK a terrorist organization or not? Period!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0362par0554	Again, our struggle is the common country, democratic republic, the struggle for equal citizenship.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0367par0555	Is the PKK a terrorist organization or not? Period!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0362par0556	Thank you for listening.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0367par0558	Come on, is the PKK a terrorist organization or not? Period!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0369par0559	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0370par0560	He accused me of supporting terrorist organizations and...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0371par0561	Why did you see him? Why did you see him?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0372par0562	We didn't see each other.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0371par0563	Who spoke the words of the state ofcurdistan?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0373par0565	Guys, excuse me. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0374par0567	Mr. Özkan, by twisting a speech I had earlier made in the House, I was perceived as a name for the truth in the eyes of the General Assembly and in the eyes of the public. I demand word.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0373par0568	It's not much of a tease, but here you go. Mr. Altay, without further ado, I beg you. Or I'll have to take a break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0374par0571	I salute you and the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0375par0572	Mr. Altay, pick on HDP.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0374par0573	Why? I'm a bully!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0376par0574	Don't tease, don't tease.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0374par0575	I'm a bully! Mr. Saruhan, you're wrong. I made a fool out of it! Mr. Cahit, my dear brother, you can't cover up the economic wreckage with the terror debate, you can't cover it up. If you go into this argument, I'll say, "Look, there are six AK PARTIES here, two of them have separated their path from you, four of them are still inside of you, and they're singing the praises of Ocalan. For example, Mr. Recep, when he said he saw her, he said he saw her.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0377par0577	When did he say that?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0374par0578	Mr. Cahit, why do you lecture us here? Go to Mr. Recep and tell him. No terrorist organization... no photo of the leader of any terrorist organization and my president. Here, here... [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] And he saith unto us, There shall be no bread for you from here, and there shall be no bread for you from the pallet of Tank. And there shall be no bread for you from here, and you shall sink as you go down. For this reason: I categorize the EC PARTI people into four categories: from the beginning, as well as from the moment to time, there are those who part ways in the February 7, 2012, in the crisis of the MIT, 17-25, after the corruption and abuse of influence, there are those who separate their ways with ا after July 15, 2016.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0378par0582	Aren't there some who aren't?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0374par0583	And there are still those of you who do not separate. These are the ones who shout and insult CHP to make it better for Mr. Recep. I think you should avoid them.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0378par0585	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0374par0586	And let's say, of course, dear friends, I wasn't going to say this, but now I repeat, there's a Demirtaş debate. Whoever's involved in terrorism, has a gun in his hand, he's had it removed, God damn it, and let the judgment take its course.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0379par0588	Amen, amen!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0374par0589	But, but...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0380par0591	But without it, of course, but without it!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0381par0592	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0374par0593	I mean, but it's not the same: Mr. Ocalan is paying the price for the heads he's taken for the man who founded a terrorist organization. Someone who says, "Let's apologize before this nation, let's ask for forgiveness." (Applause from CHP rows) Since he'll learn not to say anything about a convicted terrorist instead of a terrorist...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0382par0595	Demirtaş is a terrorist, a terrorist!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0374par0596	Look, I'll tell you something else: Mr. Ocalan, we've ruled out opening the PKK flag as a crime. A former AK PARTY minister, a Parliamentary minister, says. You did it, why are you mad at them? (CHP cheers) So it's possible to continue to argue, we have supplies. Let me tell you this, and let me finish: Dolmabahçe, six men, three of you from HDP. Your people are walking around, you've put two of these 3 HDP people in prison. If it's a partner in crime, if it's a crime, it's wrong. So the bottom line is, come on, be sincere.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0382par0599	Demirtaş is a terrorist! I mean it sincerely.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0374par0600	It's not for me!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0382par0601	To me, he is. To me, he's a terrorist.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0374par0603	Maybe. He'll be punished, and I'll say he's a terrorist.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0382par0604	To me, he's a terrorist.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0383par0605	Come, if you want words, speak from the stand. Learn to shut up! There's car...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0384par0606	What's happening to you?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0382par0607	To me, he's a terrorist. For God's sake!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0385par0609	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0386par0610	Yes, Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0387par0611	What did I say? You're asking me, why don't you ask him, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0386par0612	Wait, what did he say?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0387par0613	Tell me what I said!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0386par0614	What did he say and pick on you?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0388par0615	My master teased me, and said that our party, our group, was involved with the...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0387par0616	We can't hear.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0386par0617	That's right, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0387par0618	What did I say, sir? What did I say, Mr. President? Let me know what I said. Let me know. Let me know what's wrong with me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0386par0619	You said there are people in your parliament who have spoken to each other.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0387par0620	Yes, I did.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0389par0622	Mr. President, I'm not going to rephrase his speech. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the solution process in this country is a meeting called "Leave a gun" to the PKK terrorist organization under the control and control of our state. Put down the gun, bury the gun. Is it democratic politics or not? That's the point.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0390par0624	Mr. Özkan, I beg you, please don't cause any trouble.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0389par0625	But when he went for the gun, someone moved in together. For him, whoever opposes the rule of law in this country, whoever acts against the weapon finds the constitutional order of the state, the military, the security forces, the judiciary. So don't let anyone get involved. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yes, on the other hand, the matter of Å... look, right now the leader of Turkey has always been a national will in the pursuit of deep and parallel structures, the tradition of the AK PARTI. (CHP rows) He didn't tell us that he was a keeper. Look, it says: "If I have the right to an intercession, I'll use it for Ecevit. " You'll probably defend your president, who Ismet Inönu has resigned for himself, that's one. Secondly, it was December 17th, the plots began, and the Turkish judiciary in particular had identified the conspiracies of the ▪ in the Armed Forces, in the sports community, in every area, and wanted to take down the national will.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0391par0628	You're the prosecutor, you're the prosecutor!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0392par0629	You were the one who appointed Hakan Hallelujah as deputy!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0389par0630	Look, your Group Deputy Director Free Special -- I won't be speaking from now on, I won't be speaking from now on, I'll be talking to the People of the CHP -- says Free Special...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0391par0631	You were the prosecutors, you were the prosecutors!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0392par0632	Who made Hakan Thank God the deputy?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0389par0633	There is no such thing as a terrorist organization. This statement of the authorities is an operation against those who express themselves as a service movement to the congregation in Manisa. We met with them today at the Police Department, and I will continue to see them. This is one. After December 17th, just yesterday, on July 15th, months before...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0393par0635	Complete your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0392par0636	Say Hakan Hallelujah, Hakan Hallelujah! Where is Hakan?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0389par0637	Two: here he is, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, your president-in-chief, saying that even though his security was declared a terrorist organization that threatened national security, he began his tour of the broadcast organs of the city. Is it over? No. Once again, your president went to support the decision on the closing of the Zaman newspaper, the will that carried out July 15th... [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP rows]] Look, here it is again, here it is, your deputies. You know, the one who was convicted of spying on our national security in that MIT crisis, and the one who dropped his parliamentary position... here are the two CHP people who go and support the channels of the city. [[Noises from CHP and HDP rows]] I'm not going into Mahmoud Tanal's bank account -- he's sitting quietly in the back -- he says: "Bank is not an Asian terrorist organization, put the money there." There it is. To show power there...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0394par0644	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0389par0645	You're the ones who did the leading. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0395par0648	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0396par0649	Mr. Altay, please...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0397par0650	What's going to happen here, Mr. Engin?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0396par0651	Mr. Altay, go ahead and pick on him.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0398par0653	Thank you. Guys, why did I go to him? We visited. Who's here? For God's sake, as they say, let the innocent throw the first stone. Before the December 17th or 25th incident, the rise in both trade and politics and bureaucracy would have been that way. So if there are people here who are going to pay for this, we, as politicians, have to give it to them in the first place, so we don't have to blame people. The photo is actually clear.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0399par0655	Make self-criticism.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0400par0656	I wish you could tell me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0398par0657	Now, you're a little bit less than that, you're a lot of other people. You don't really get any bread from these arguments, we don't get anything. But I repeat, even after declaring the State of Emergency on July 16, 2016, some of the cryptos are still in you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0399par0658	Where?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0398par0659	Some of them are in state bureaucracy, some of them are at the table of Mr. Recep Tayyip, like Fettah Tamince, all right, brother? You cannot reckon with those who have money, and that is the most shameful, and that is the most shameful. (HPP) We're in the Milky Way, Mahmoud Tanal is out; I sent him, and I said, "Go, there's something about this TV, look. For us, it's not about people, it's about law.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0401par0660	Well, what the...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0398par0661	Look, I'll tell you something else: do you know what terrorist organizations want the most, the most hand rub? It's when the government goes against the law. Terrorist organizations find blood there, they die there, they find power there. So, whoever does, let the government fight terrorism -- the Home Secretary here -- the strictest, most relentless struggle.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0402par0663	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0403par0664	He's giving, he's giving.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0398par0665	Give it to him, brother.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0403par0666	He does, and he'll give it to the end.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0398par0667	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0403par0668	Give it to him, give it to him.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0398par0669	Damn, you're the Chief of Staff! You're making me nervous here.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0403par0670	We said he'd fight terrorism until the end. What did we say?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0398par0671	But straw and hay will not be mixed, not every Kurdish terrorist will be perceived as -- I'm saying this for you -- and the state will remain in law, within the law. The state outside the law only serves terrorist organizations. I have 16 articles ready if you want to continue the debate. I'm coming, I'm coming. We're ready. We're waiting. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0404par0676	Yeah, what did we say?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0405par0677	Next time you speak, please explain the cryptos.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0398par0678	I'll explain.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0405par0679	Don't be suspicious.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0398par0680	You know how I said Fettah Tamince?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0405par0681	Who?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0398par0682	Fettah Tamce.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0405par0683	So, is he here? You're talking about inside you, you're talking about here.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0398par0684	E, call him in.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0405par0686	You say here. You say here, you say here, you say here, you say here, you say in you. That son of a bitch isn't in us.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0406par0687	He's the head of the Tourism Agency, Fettah Tamince. Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0407par0689	Yeah, a lot of our deputies -- so that's enough of your hands. He says, "Let's take a break, Mr. President." You're the president, sir. Mr. President... Yes, please. CAHIT ÖZKAN (Sealy) Just moments ago, the elements of the Hanib from the stand have been severely taunted by saying, "You are in your midst." He didn't say the elements, he said the crypto elements. No, sir. What does that mean?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0408par0696	But what difference does it make? Worse.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0407par0697	Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] There's a difference between the elements of Unsur (Unsur) and the kripto). CAHIT ÖZKAN (Marine) Mr. President, the valued MPs have begun some design initiatives in Turkey's civil society and political arena. As of 2010... [[Noises from CHP rows]] Look, be sacrificed to Deniz Baykal, the victim. You surrendered when the armed and taped terrorist organization staged these plots, and then, unfortunately, you entered the direction of the terrorist organization. Look, even after July 15th, what statements does your president use? These are historical notes: there has never been so much pain during a military coup. Now, on July 15th, they took an opportunity to strike back. July 15th is a controlled coup, and now they're destroying millions. They came at us because I said it was a controlled blow. Millions are traitors. I say, everywhere and all the time, July 15th is a controlled coup by the government. Who said that? He said he was your president.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0409par0704	An uncontrollable politician.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0410par0705	Your president, who came with the tape, put you in the direction of the station, that's the summation. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0411par0708	Mr. Bostanci, please... Friends, quiet, please. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0412par0712	Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0411par0714	Guys, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0412par0715	Mr. Engin Altay just told me that I gave false information, referring to yesterday's statement.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0411par0716	Mr. Altay did, yes.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0413par0717	Yeah.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0412par0718	Yes, Mr. Altay. I looked at the accounts again upstairs.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0413par0720	So I looked at it. Let's look at it together.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0412par0721	Yeah. We need a fix on the ratios, but we don't need a correction on the ratio between the two. In 2003, the number difference between the President's salary and minimum wage is 50 times that, 50 times that.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0413par0723	It was 70, it fell to 50.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0412par0724	70 is 70, right.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0413par0725	If you go down to 23, I'm in; it says 23, 23.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0412par0726	If you count it gross, it goes up 70 floors, if you calculate it clearly, it goes up 50 floors, over the net. Today, when you do that check for 2020 -- Mr. Altay, you do that -- 27 floors go up.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0413par0727	35.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0412par0728	So today, let the President get paid twice as much so that he can reach the minimum wage distance between the President and the President in 2003, Mr. Altay. But that's not the point, look, that's not the point, I said something else. Now, in this way, we want to increase the minimum wage by doing this sort of sexism, that is, by calling for a soul, to increase it, to say it is not true, and we want to increase it.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0413par0729	Raise, who's holding your hand?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0412par0730	Let me tell you, we're full of desire to increase you more. But you can appreciate that these things are within the scope of the country's resources, capacity, wealth, income. AK PARTY, whatever you hit, whatever math you make, has increased the minimum wage revenue by 2.5 times over these years. Well, you say something, too. Raise it, increase it. More than you can say.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0414par0733	Is the government paying minimum wage?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0415par0734	Whatever the government wants.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0416par0735	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0417par0736	In such a way, we can increase the income of the minimum wage with an approach like this. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0418par0738	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0419par0739	Yes, please, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0418par0741	Now, Mr. Naci tells a different number, I tell a different number. We're both known in Parliament. Mr. Naci, I have a proposition for you: tomorrow you are older than me -- you get an economics expert, and I'll take it; let's sit down and talk. What if we convince each other is that if we don't, we'll keep giving each other a separate number, or I'll add it up like this, and I'll take a step back: let's make the minimum wage $4,000, and I'll say for the salary of Erdogan, let's say it's as good as his mother's white milk. (Applause from the chp rows) It's as simple as that.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0419par0742	Congressmans, thank you. 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Health Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account CIRKEY MEDICINE AND TIBI TERRIBLE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices' Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Board Final Account for Central Management in 2019 THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITUTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The Interior Ministry's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) Police General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account JANDARMA GENIAL COMMUNITY [[Continue]] 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Gendarme General Command 2019 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Coast Guard Command 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Central Management Budget for 2021 2) General Directorate of Migration Administration 2019 Central Management Final Account E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister for Disaster and Emergency Management 2019 Central Management Final Account Yes, Congressmans, we're starting the Republican People's Party group talks. The first word is for Mr. Cavit Bee. Here you go, Mr. Bee. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we've had enough arguing. Let's get him back in a little more peace.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0420par0792	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you and all my citizens. There's an outbreak of coronavirus that surrounds our country and our world. Therefore, I congratulate once again all health workers, the true heroes of this process, who have risked their lives night and day. In the meantime, if there's any success in health care, it's for all our health workers from the biggest share doctor to the nurse to the nurse to the nurse, to the technician; I thank you for their hard work. Dear friends, we're going through an epidemic. Since when? This year is February, starting in March. So, in our country, the economic crisis, the economic problems, did they start with this epidemic? Of course not. You're even trying to turn the plague into an opportunity, to link your failure to this place. I tell you, you can't rule the country well, you haven't left anything in the country called economic stability, you haven't left anything in the country called trust, you haven't left justice in the country, you haven't left peace in the country, you haven't left faith in the future of young people. We said trust, yes, trust is very important. It's very important for our citizen to feel equal in the eyes of the law, and it's very valuable for him to feel equal in terms of state opportunities. No trust, no peace, no stability, no investment, no production, no trade, no development of the country. Now, the citizen has no confidence in you, he wants you to leave as soon as possible, and he's waiting for that day, and that day is very near. Look, the groom resigned, saying, "May the Minister be good for us." What's up, guys? The empty seat became Minister of Finance for two days. With this empty seat, the dollar dropped 5%. Have you ever thought about what that means?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0421par0798	Guys, there's so much noise, please, let's be quiet.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0420par0799	I'll tell you, it's a clear sign that you're running out of trust. When only a minister leaves a dollar, when there's a relief in the market, it means that all of you, as power, have to leave, to breathe, to come to peace, to come to prosperity again. Dear lawmakers, in my budget speech from this bench last year, I made a statement saying that you predicted 81 billion in the year 2019 as a budget deficit, but in the end it was 125 billion. You're already predicting 139 billion for 2020, and if we go with the same mathematical computation, by the end of the year -- let's say, sadly -- the budget deficit will be 220-230 billion. At the point where we're here today, there's a 250 billion-dollar budget deficit as of October figures. And by the end of the year, you're entitled to a loan of 308 billion. What do you predict in the 2021 budget? 245 billion. Believe me, I don't want to, but if you keep running like this, you're gonna have a budget deficit of at least 450 billion for next year. It was the public-private cooperation projects that were the most talked about during this budget period, because unfortunately, in bringing a burden to the country, even our children are in debt. We're certainly not against investments, but we're against being ripped off, against spending the money of an unfinished orphan. Highways and bridges will be paid 71 billion to this side from 2017 to 2023, and city hospitals will be paid 78 billion again; a total cost of 150 billion. As much as the Health Minister said, we started building city hospitals with general budget resources, there are still five public-private hospitals under construction. This year was paid 3 billion in the first seven months, 5 billion by the end of the year. Well, the cost of a public hospital is 1.1 billion, so I'm afraid five public hospitals have been here in a year. What kind of system is this? The Ministry of Health has signaled partially to give up public-private cooperation, and other ministries must see it and give up. Mr. President had a saying five days before this bench, I repeat: we will bring democracy in the first election, we will bring justice, we will bring righteousness. In the first election, we'll tell the world how valuable the sweat is. In the first election, we will free the state of the Republic of Turkey from the loan sharks in London, and you will see that we will end this robbery order. (Applause from CHP rows) We're going to nationalize all of the investments of the five-alarm gang that will exploit even our grandchildren, and we're going to take it to the state. [[Applause from CHP rows]] When we look at the Court reports on the Ministry of Health, there are many irregularities in the Control Report of 2019, dear friends. But instead of counting all these irregularities one by one, I'd like to put it this way: there's a drift here, so there's a randomness, there's a surrender to companies. You know, if you read all of this, it's almost as if you're the government, you've given it to the corporations. Companies have adapted these contracts to their will, they have interpreted them, and the surrenders have been taken without proper inspections, the non-governmental provisions have been accepted; you have failed to feel your power here as a state, and I only make deals with companies under these conditions. I had already told Mr. Home Secretary in the Commission: "You exposed the head of this country's main opposition party to a lynching attempt in Çukuk district on April 19, 2019, and you couldn't protect it. Mr. Minister replied in writing: 699 gendarmes and police officers, most of whom were police on the day of the shooting, were there at their post that day. Once again, I'd like to say that you failed. I'm afraid Osman the nerd won 699 police and gendarmes. Now, all the public knows what a known vigilante said about our President. Mr. Home Secretary, I'm afraid he hasn't said a word about this until today. Again, we've asked several times about a 500,000 TL claim against Serik Municipality, and we're following it, and the current Mayor said: "I've requested an inspector from the Ministry of Interior." So, what happened? There's no Home Office inspector, you couldn't assign him. I'm afraid you've gone against equality here, in the eyes of the law and the law. All the heads of the Turkish Bar Association have taken a march regarding the amendment to the Law of Law, you know, you could have prevented it, Mr. Minister. The presidents of the Bar had just walked in their robes, expressing their reaction to the Law on Lawyership. And with the Supreme Court's decision later, clearly, you illegally obstructed this march. Now, if that's not enough, you've put off the general boards of the bar in general, again, against the law; you've put off until December 1st, and now you've postponed until Marta 1st. So, I'm asking you, is Covid so smart that he's only contagious in the general boards of the bar, not infected in the AKP congress, and that's the case? [[Applause from CHP rows]] There was also a lack of law in the pandemic process. You've damaged the spirit of help and solidarity that society is trying to carry out on its own. In the days when people needed help and solidarity most, you put embargoes in the successful solidarity of CHP municipalities. I'm collecting help. If you say that you want to create a new government, another government. Something like that has been fabricated, and it may be a good decision for your government, but it doesn't suit the law or conscience. You've prevented fundraising for illegal reasons. What did it do? Because of your obstruction, many people have stopped participating in the charity campaign. Many people wanted to donate directly to municipalities; many people who did not trust power in this regard wanted to support municipalities, and you avoided that.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0422par0812	Complete your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0420par0813	Again, by implementing the Minister of Environment and Urbanism, unfortunately, we can see that he has entered some practices that prevent him from protecting the environment. Look, Mr. President, we can't betray our cities about vertical architecture, especially in terms of vertical architecture. Dear lawmakers, this is the budget of waste, the budget of the waste system. This budget is the budget of those who have not been able to explain whether the tank pallet factory was sold or donated, while the factories and facilities established in difficult conditions have been sold from one side since the founding of the republic. In these economic difficulties, it is the budget of those who continue to live in palaces while offering patience to the citizens. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0423par0818	Thank you. Here's your last greeting.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0420par0820	It's the budget of those who can't support their small tradesman, farmers, workers, workers, laborers for free, who have forced our farmer to act so that tractors, farms, land, animals don't be seized.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0423par0821	Here's your greeting line.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0420par0822	I'm saying there's no good in this budget for our people, and I want to say here that this budget, unfortunately, will not contribute to our country's future. I salute you all with love; thank you very much.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit04spe0423par0825	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0423par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. The commission is in place. We stayed in talks on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Now it's time for Mr. Burhanettin Bulut. Here you go, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0424par0008	There's no minister.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0425par0009	Get the Minister of Health in here. If our friend, the Minister of Health, comes to discuss health.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0423par0010	Our Deputy Health Minister is here, and Mr. Secretary is about to arrive. Mr. Cloud, you're welcome...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0425par0012	Slowly...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0423par0013	Not slowly; the clock is ticking, fast.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0425par0014	Then let the Minister come, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0423par0015	It doesn't matter, Mr. Vice Minister will also represent the Ministry, no problem.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0425par0016	Let's make Halil Bey the Minister!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0423par0017	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0426par0018	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, we're going to tell the Minister because we have an unfinished conversation with Minister of the Plans and Budget Commission in particular. I'm going to look around like this, and I'm going to bring it up when he gets here. It's not just our country's first agenda, it's the world's pandemic.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0427par0021	You can bring that up, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0426par0022	I'm glad. The first topic of our country and the world is pandemic. In the early days of the year, our people were making announcements, especially on social media, about how we should be protected, about how we should be protected, but today -- you all have social media, especially Facebook -- everyone has been able to share the news of the death of either the relative or his friend. Unfortunately, there was fear in the country and in the world. Of course, it's the Minister of Health who's been most interested in such times. When the Minister of Health is on TV tonight, the whole community is watching him with interest. In particular, in the early days when pandemic cases came to Turkey, there was a particular interest in the minister's sympathetic behavior, the doctor's identity, Mr. Secretary, but as the number of pandemics began to rise, Mr. Secretary suddenly turned into a typical politician from his sympathetic state. Maybe -- I said that in Plan and Budget that day -- rather than a doctor's identity, he put his political identity more first. A story of success has come to the trouble of creating a success story. Rather than a health care administration, he has returned to the goal of political success. He's been inside the perception board, he's been in PR studies -- I think his team is successful in these matters -- we've heard that the Health Minister calls a columnist almost every day and relays information on the subject. What was it about the Minister of Health? In fact, to not push this country into chaos during this pandemic period is to reassure society. For example, in the problem of the mask, this country has been in chaos for two months, and for two months, people have not been able to reach the mask. Remember, SMS has been sent, you can get it from the E-state. It's been said, even over 65 years old, that he sent masks and cologne to his house during curfews by the President. But what did the Minister say that day? We have a heavy mask. We're sending masks to a country near 60. The government is going through a disaster of Europe all the time, but we have nothing, the world admires us in those days. Right after that, there was an argument about the flu vaccine. As a pharmacist, I wrote to Mr. Ministry at the time because I predicted what would happen in the flu vaccine, and I wrote to CIMER, saying, "How many vaccines do you import?" The answer from CIMER was: "We can't count on the flu vaccine because it's a trade secret. While Iran provided 7.5 million flu vaccines, our Minister of Health said we were heading towards its 3 million targets yesterday. Why did I say that? Because the flu vaccine was supposed to be ordered early, so we had to get the supplies in advance. It's a sign that you can't make it work again today, and he hasn't even finished the vaccine, and the chronic patients still can't get the vaccine. What's the problem here? Mr. Secretary is drawn to the magic of politics, the lust of eloquence, he can't get out of it, he's turned science into a tool of politics. Finally, there was an argument about PCR (PCR), and he issued a summary of the PCR (PCR) because our citizens were unable to take the Covid test at the hospital, despite their intensity and concern, due to the lack of new protocols. But they started complaining about private hospitals: the PCR test is being done for $350. I told the Minister: "Mr. Minister, it's being done for $350, including the hospital where you're the founder. Mr. Secretary, you're lying to me immediately, even though I've done more than the criticism I've just done, you're lying to me. After him, Mr. Minister, I called myself, and I have documents. Even though I said, Mr. Secretary, you are lying for the second time. What is the Minister's concern? Mr. Secretary runs the Ministry of Health like his own hospital, runs it as a company. (CHP) As if taking in the Deputy Minister's staff was not enough, the falcon was immediately cut off, not in that company's logic, but not in his ministry, but in his hospital. And as a result, as a statement that it was true, the next day, he released another sentence.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0428par0029	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0426par0030	I'm finishing. In that general, return this to private hospitals if you have received more than 250 lira at a price of price. So we announced that the Minister of Health had such an intervention because the Minister will manage. But that day you lied to your minister. Then we understood what he said when the complaints came. Turquoise is doing exactly what he did in the painting at his hospital. What's he doing? The citizen says: I'm going to have you tested. I said. You had me tested -- by a nurse -- and you got $350, return my money. The patient says: "Ya, I haven't been examined, I haven't even seen it." No, our documents say that. You've fooled the citizen by playing with numbers again. After all, time is short, Mr. Minister, I have a few words for you from here: Give the rights of health workers who strive for public health and make sacrifices in this matter, and their rights will not be paid. Give the rights of the medics you call them; make the appointments for employees, especially health technicians immediately.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0429par0034	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0426par0035	And you owe an apology to this citizen today, Mr. Secretary, for the security you've created in the country, including the corona vaccine, including vaccines.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0429par0039	Thank you. Congressmans, in fact, we've lost a lot of these Covid measures today. Please, let's pay a little more attention to this mask business. You know, a lot of our fellow lawmakers got caught up in the corona. Let's be more careful. 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Health Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account CIRKEY MEDICINE AND TIBI TERRIBLE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices' Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Board Final Account for Central Management in 2019 THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITUTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The Interior Ministry's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) Police General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account JANDARMA GENIAL COMMUNITY [[Continue]] 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Gendarme General Command 2019 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Coast Guard Command 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Central Management Budget for 2021 2) General Directorate of Migration Administration 2019 Central Management Final Account E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister for Disaster and Emergency Management 2019 Central Management Final Account Mr. Emir, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0430par0087	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I regret to inform you that our Ministry of Health and therefore the Republic of Turkey have failed in the fight against the epidemic. We may have a long time to talk, but according to no international standards, for no number, unfortunately, our Ministry is not successful. The number of deaths is many times higher than the number of deaths, with which we are nearly 1. The last thing they're saying is that we're missing, but when they catch us, the number of patients that they've explained to us -- we're 4th in the world, and we're pushing up. An extremely unsuccessful pandemic administration. Does a Ministry stop fighting the pandemic and fight the numbers, try to create perception? Does a Minister of Health gamble on the health of citizens because he will be successful because he will appear successful to the President? Of course not. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] Mr. Secretary, I'm going to ask you a question. I know you've been working hard, and I know your intentions are good, but when you're in bed -- you're late -- do you ask yourself: if the pandemic is at this level today, if the pandemic is so common, if there's so much death, and if our citizens have to deal with their job, if they have to deal with poverty because of the delayed struggle, if they have to deal with their job, if they have to deal with poverty?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0431par0091	He can't get over Erdogan! He can't get over Erdogan!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0430par0092	These days will pass, and after ten years, they will ask this question, and you will not be able to get rid of it. My time is short, I'm going to tell you a story, Mr. Minister listen well, and the Deputy Minister of Health listens very carefully: Dear friends, Morningin Aydın - Vice Minister of Medicine, who has recently been transferred from Medipol in 2003. His wife, Cyril Aydın, started a company called Bilbest I.T. Health Limited; it's nice. This company starts taking over online software work for the Health Department hospitals. When it comes to this agenda, Sibel Aydın goes to the notary and finishes his partnership, and so the Deputy Undersecretary -- in that row -- seems to have dropped this burden on him. It's something that, in our view, is morally inappropriate, and in 2010, Mr. Deputy Secretary of State, when he leaves the undersecretary, this time his son Muhammad Ikbal Aydın will be a partner again in the company that receives all the public tenders of the Ministry of Health, which will bring millions of dollars to the company. What do we know from here? This is a phantom process. So the Deputy Undersecretary had to send his wife back there so her son wouldn't be noticed that he was moving the goods, so he appointed someone, and when he was done, he brought his son back there. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, friends, this company is not done counting the tenders. The Ministry of Health's patient management system, the ICD code, the patient information system, public tenders, the tenders of public hospital hospitals are being held by this company in 2015. The tenders are all greasy honey. None of the tenders are real tenders, all by invitation, the 21/b you're used to. Now, is that legal money? You're not gonna come up here and answer that question -- I know -- like you haven't answered a lot of my questions. You have left no judgment in the land, nor do you answer to justice, but how will you answer to God? You're here to eat the rights of an unfinished orphan, and you're here to feed your son the rights of an unfinished orphan, and you're asking us for a budget for the Ministry of Health. This Parliament shouldn't give such a budget to this Ministry. And dear friends, nepotism, don't make your next of kin rich, by the way, don't move the goods, if they find out, don't cross the line, don't answer, but in the end, you're still caught. Dear friends, for six months I've run out of hair. Why do you buy these test kits from a company, how much do you charge? The same way, the Minister of Health didn't say it again, didn't say it, but we know there was corruption there, four times there was corruption, and then, because we warned you. He confessed himself, but there's one other thing he didn't confess: that's when he took out his top four executives. You know why? Because corruption there was a small amount of $40 million in corruption, which could have been dealt with by the dismissal of those at that level. But Mr. Secretary, yes, you did, thank you; yes, you did, and you told the truth, but it's up to you to take the political responsibility.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0432par0100	Complete.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0430par0101	Where's the political responsibility?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0433par0102	Speak straight, that's right.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0430par0103	Why don't you tell me why you took this off the force?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0433par0104	You'll get a little blush.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0430par0105	Is it appropriate for a Ministry to do that? I'll tell you what's more important, dear friends: Now, one question...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0433par0107	Talk at 83 million.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0430par0108	Mr. Secretary, you come in, we'll talk here; in fact, I'd love to talk to you face-to-face, and we can talk for a very long time.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0433par0109	I told you all that. I told them on the commission, and everyone heard it there. Don't you ever blush!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0430par0110	Dear friends, look, let me finish by saying here that this is the company of Mr. Deputy Secretary's son that is running the E-nabis system. Therefore, I would like to submit to our nation and to your knowledge that we will closely monitor how fair you will be in the distribution of this vaccine. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0434par0113	He answered them in the commission, in the Commission.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0435par0114	Mr. Fikret Şahin, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0436par0116	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I have made a commitment to the Health Department budget of 2021. I salute your high council. Sir, I'd like to start with the Ministry of Health's assessment of city hospitals in the year 2018 and 2019 of the Court's Regularity Control Report. Look, what does the Court say about city hospitals? It has been determined that the General Management Accounting Administration, Central Management Accounting Administration, Accounting Office General, is not being carried out in accordance with the provisions of Public Special Business Association Applications. It says, "See, this is what the Court says." So he says that we're dealing with an unknown hospital system of books, who gives to whom and who gives to whom. This is why we call city hospitals the biggest black hole in the history of the Republic. The current government took the most important step, along with the Change in Health Programme, with these city hospitals, and allowed companies to earn money in exchange for the health care of our citizens. Therefore, city hospitals are not primarily public hospitals, but corporate hospitals. These hospitals are a modern exploitation system that mortgages on future generations' health benefits, restricts our children's health budgets, and, in turn, today's capitalizations. In the beginning, 30 city hospitals were scheduled to be built with a public-special cooperation model, and on November 14, 2019, you said last year: "We had experience with public-private cooperation, and we planned to build city hospitals with this experience. If you can do that in your budget, why would you want to run a financial model? After all, don't the financial model have a burden? You admit that some kind of public-private cooperation model costs a lot of money, and you're taking 10 city hospitals into the general budget, so you're taking them out of public-special cooperation. And in this year's budget, you're saying that you're going to build one hospital from a more general budget. It appears that the ministry has accepted to some extent that it is wrong for city hospitals to be run by a public-private cooperative model, and will make 11 city hospitals from the general budget. Currently, there are 18 city hospitals in Turkey that will still be run by public-private cooperation, including 13 of them in the ministry, five of them in construction. With 13 city hospitals currently serving -- Mr. Minister, I notice you, especially from your paintings -- we've won 17509 beds. We closed 21 public hospitals while opening 13 city hospitals. In total, there were 11,392 beds in these public hospitals -- 13 city hospitals -- we made 6,117 beds, 13 city hospitals, and a net 6,117 beds.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0437par0121	Qualified bed.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0436par0122	Yeah, yeah. I'll tell you that now, sir. We're paying a lot of money in exchange for these 13 city hospitals. Look, even when the National Bank's 128 billion-dollar reserves melted, we continued to pay these city hospitals, and we will continue for 25 years. Now, sir, the first year the city hospitals entered the service was 2017. How much did we pay for rent and service in the three years from October 2017 to October 2020? Look, I'm getting the number from your financials, sir, we've paid 15 billion and 587 million liras. Look, it's the cost of a $600,000 state hospital in the Presidential Investment Program. Mr. Tamer, listen to me, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0438par0126	I'm listening, I'm listening.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0436par0127	With this three-year lease, we could have 25,978 state hospital beds.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0439par0129	It's not rent, it's not rent.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0436par0130	No, it's rent and service.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0439par0131	It's not rent, it's service.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0436par0132	Of course, the rent and service fee.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0439par0133	It's not the same thing.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0436par0134	As a result, there could be 25,978 beds, 52 state hospitals with 500 beds, with 15 billion and $587 million in rent and service you've paid for city hospitals in three years.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0439par0135	It's not the same thing, don't mix it up.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0436par0136	Look, what do you say? What would we do without these city hospitals in the fight against the Coronavirus? If only you hadn't built a public hospital, we'd have not got 6,117 beds, but 25,978 beds, and now we'd have a much better fight. Look, you're all wanted because there's no room in the ICU, no room in the hospital.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0440par0138	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0436par0139	I'll order the proper bed. Mr. Tamer, look, again in the Presidential Investment Programme, the cost of a city hospital from the general budget is $980,000. Look, for three years of rent and service, you own 15,905 city hospital beds, 15 city hospitals. Look, you can make 15 hospitals with three years' rent for 13 hospitals. Isn't it a shame about the orphans who haven't finished their hair? You'll pay 25 years. Shame on you! That's what I'm telling you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0441par0142	No, no, you're wrong.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0436par0143	Look, you're taking credit for future generations, Mr. Secretary, you've got plagues, children's plagues. In the future, you will leave this Ministry, and the children will tell you that you have mortgaged our future for twenty-five years. Come, give up. Look, you're trying to turn the pandemic into an opportunity. Yeah, pandemic's a motive. Come on, let's nationalize the hospitals. Publicizing these hospitals is not an economic choice; it is the right of health for future generations. That's your responsibility, Mr. Secretary, and that's your responsibility, yes. Each year, these city hospitals receive a much larger amount of money than your budget. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll salute you, Mr. President, I'll salute you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0442par0146	No, no, no.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0436par0147	I'll say hi.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0442par0148	It takes a minute to salute.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0436par0149	No, not at all.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0442par0150	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0443par0151	Tell me about the Adana field hospital and the Beauty Fair.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0436par0152	Minister, when these hospitals are finished, at least 30 percent of your budget will go to city hospitals. Come, let's nationalize this; we'll support you. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0444par0155	Yes, thank you, Mr. Hawk. Mr. Hawk, let's leave the bench.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0445par0157	Describe Adana field hospital and the bed capacity of Beauty Fair.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0444par0159	Guys, why are you reacting so much? Why are you reacting so strongly to Mr. Demirbağ? Mr. Ironbone, I couldn't hear what you said to make it so angry.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0445par0161	I said, tell me about the beauty fair.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0446par0162	Speak on the stand, come out!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0444par0163	Mr. Bayram Yilmakaya, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0447par0165	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I pray for God's mercy to our citizens who have died in the pandemic process, especially to our health workers and fellow doctors. In Deontology and the Hippocratic Oath, the most important duty of health workers is to maintain and maintain human health, and I would certainly like to start by saying that political future and economic anxiety should not be in the way of human and public health. Dear friends, doctors and medical staff are exhausted. In the fight against the pandemic, you told the medics and doctors who fought on the front line that you would not be paid for. And you didn't really pay for it, and I don't think you're going to be able to pay for it. Minister, war doesn't just happen between armies. The battle against Covid is a war, and the soldiers of this war are health workers and our fellow physicians. You are the commander-in-chief of this war. Please act truly as a commander-in-chief and take care of your fellow physicians, your health worker, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0448par0169	He's been acting like a commander-in-chief all along.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0449par0170	First of all, for the importance of this war, I wish you could increase your ministry budget. With limited people and material resources, our work is very difficult in this war. I wish you could spend the taxes, the money you donated to the city hospitals, to our physicians, to our employees. I wish the flu vaccines had come down with 10 million doses like they should have. If only you could provide employment with additional personnel sooner, Mr. Secretary. Look, we have a lot of people waiting for assignments - dialysis technicians, ATT graduates, anesthesiologists. I wish we could have taken the staff waiting for the appointment and quickly trained in intensive care and general care and looked at our people who were caught in Covid in a healthier, clearer, better way, Mr. President. Minister, you hid the numbers from everyone while you were explaining the Covid cases. We finally found that the palace didn't fight the plague, it bent the numbers and hid the truth from our nation. We don't know when it's 10 grand, when it's 20 grand, how long we've been going in the 30,000s. You accused us of treason, the Turkish Medical Association and the opposition, telling the truth. The government had to confess to the number of cases the World Health Organization has blocked by the panic of the criteria for the vaccine distribution, according to the number of deaths.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0450par0173	Was he less than the World Health Organization?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0449par0174	The government, which declares those who speak the truth a traitor, has to answer for the problem because it hides the real data by thinking about the economy, setting the stage for the development and spread of the epidemic in society.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0450par0175	Was he less than the World Health Organization?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0449par0176	When the real numbers we didn't know about were too many, you opened schools that weren't supposed to open without thinking about the health of our people, keeping the economy in the forefront. You've put our children at great risk, Minister, because you can't support the school trade industry. Our people buried their lives before they could say goodbye to their relatives, Minister. When the time comes for all of this, you will pay for it in this world and in the next. Our dead people left before they could give you their rights. Neither our dead citizens nor their relatives will allow you their rights. Our health workers, who are soldiers of this war, run to their death, saying goodbye to their families every morning, wondering if they'll be infected today, wondering what will become of them after them. And as a doctor, you still haven't brought the Covid-19 law of occupational illness to the General Assembly. Our members of the ministry, and your dead medical staff, will not give you their dues. Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid people can't find a place in the hospital. Look, we've got victims waiting in the ICU who can't even make an emergency observation right now, including the science of Gaziantep. They need immediate solutions. The number of beds in inadequate intensive care must be increased. If necessary, a field hospital should be opened in Gaziantep. Minister, we haven't even been able to insulate. Despite our warnings, citizens who have tested positive for coronavirus, wear a mask, nothing will happen. These patients, sent home without any precautions, spread the Covid-19 virus much faster by infecting their families, neighbors. This method, in which four or five people live in the same room, are far from the reality of Turkey, puts the positive person at great risk, both his family and neighbors. Either you're deliberately sending these patients home without any precautions, for social immunity, or you're thinking that a citizen might be isolated at home with four or five rooms, two bathrooms, two toilets. It's not clear. But it's impossible to send all the positive people home. These people need to be isolated from the field hospital, the dorm or the hospital, for those whose home environment is unfit to assess their situation. If we don't carry out this isolation process correctly and isolate it during this seven-ten-day period of contamination, Turkey will not succeed in fighting the pandemic, and as a matter of fact, we are not successful. Dear friends, we don't know for what reason or how, but we've only been in need of a Chinese vaccine. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0451par0183	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0449par0184	Interestingly, we will not pay if we do not like the lover or if the results are not good. You have made such statements. Again, you showed that you had money in your mind, not human health. Come on, what are we gonna do, Mr. Secretary, if we don't like it or not? 83 million people in Turkey, 6 million immigrants, 90 million. We're down to 20 million under 18 years, 70 million. I need 140 million vaccines from two rappels. We're already in need of only 50 million Chinese vaccines. Let's say it's broken too. What's it going to be, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0452par0185	Is there a country in the world that gets 50 million in two months?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0449par0186	Minister, what I'm trying to say is...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0452par0187	Is there a country in the world that gets 50 million in two months?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0449par0188	Please... We're sitting in the summer, we should've taken these precautions earlier. Look, with a good program, we had to do this with a good priority.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0452par0190	We've taken precautions.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0449par0191	That's what you've done with the country, Mr. Secretary, just like everything else. Let's see what happens. In any case, I wish the 2021 budget to be good for our country, for our nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0453par0195	Mr. Ali Sugar, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0454par0197	Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, valued lawmakers, as of today, at least 1,780,673 citizens have been diagnosed with PCR positive coronavirus, and according to official figures, we've lost at least 16,000 citizens. We lose hundreds of lives every day, and the most painful part is that as society, we get used to it, we get used to it. Getting used to death also leads to mass death. We must not make this fatal mistake. Almost two weeks before the 11th March announcement of the first official case in our country, let's gather the Health Commission immediately. We said, the President of the Health Commission of that day -- he's sick now, wishing for urgent healings -- nothing happens if we eat duck syrup. Although he ate the syrup, I'm afraid it's Covid-19. In the last ten months, we've paid city hospitals $8 billion in budgets, in the first ten months. We could make one out of the 800-bed city hospital every month, we could build 10 city hospitals, 800 beds, 8,000 beds in total, but in the system that the previous system brought in, it's overextreme rents, over exorbitant service costs, which, thanks to the minister, is not enough to prevent city hospitals from being made with public-special cooperation as soon as they arrive, but that's not enough. In the next period, we're under heavy burden, and in three years, we're going to pay $20 billion for these city hospitals. To do that, all city hospitals with public-private cooperation, or it's a big hump on the back of our children. With our application to the Constitutional Court, hospitals inside the city were prevented from being left in the pockets of contractors, and we were able to use those hospitals during the Covid period. With the AKP shut down the Institute for Health, scientific studies were no longer able to be done, due to the deliberate collapse of universities. If it weren't for these obstructions, the Uður Hawks, the Özlem Türeklers would have produced this vaccine in Turkey today, and we could have delivered it all over the world. Dear lawmakers, those who say yes to this budget from every soul that has lost the vaccine since it was not available since then, those who precipitate to normalisation ahead of their time, those who uncontrollably open schools despite our warnings, those who run workers bottom to bottom in factories, in construction sites, so that they don't lose the numbers. People are dying of corona, as the truck driver said, because of the AKP's order. In fact, at this point, the results of the AKP's neoliberal policies and the presidential system are these because when all authority is in one man's hands, neither the Science Council nor the Ministry can do anything, I'm afraid. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We asked if the schools were ready, and our motion was not answered. Early with economic pressures, there was an abnormal normalization on June 1st, and so, as these patients increased, we saw that they endured more and more deaths during the winter period. With Genghis Construction's pardoned tax fine of $425 million, today we could get 2 doses of vaccines for our 7.5 million people over 65 years of age, 15 million doses. We know right now that health has come to this point as a result of economic difficulties. The way to prevent it now is to say, "Wait a minute! In the coming period, we need 180 million doses -- 70 million immediately -- even 270 million doses by the end of the year -- and there's no share in that budget. This share must and must be separated so we don't lose any more lives. The healthcare officer's law on the fact that Covid's disease is considered a occupational disease must be passed as soon as possible. The Illite bond is wanted, and 2 people from 220 people who have lost their lives have been paid because the SGC has not established a relationship. At the time of my obligatory service, there was a poem by Çağatay Güler. I read it, and it began with the choking of a child when he died, or from measles. And I would like to address you by adapting that first line of poetry to the corovirus: ▪ A mother, a father, a son, a wife, a worker, a physician, a nurse die from the corona He asks, he knocks, he knocks on the windows See if you've done what's necessary, if you've done what's necessary.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0455par0217	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0454par0218	That's what he'll ask us, the Ministry, and the President. We know we haven't had enough so far. At least from now on, we have a responsibility to provide enough vaccines so that we don't have more clouds in the sky, so that the rain doesn't rain on our windows and knock on our windows, and so does this House. This budget has to leave, and that's why we shouldn't give up another life because it can't get the vaccine. Now, it's a vaccine-resistant disease, and the coronavirus is a vaccine-resistant disease, just as measles can be preserved by vaccine. It is also the ministry's duty to provide protective public health care. This needs to be provided and ready as soon as possible. I salute you all, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0456par0222	Mr. Gökan Zeybek, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0457par0224	Mr. President, why don't you tell the MPs about their cities?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0456par0225	Sir?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0457par0226	I need you to tell me the cities of the MPs.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0456par0227	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Zeybek.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0458par0229	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs... Mr. Secretary, you have a crazy project called Canal Istanbul. 160,000 acres of agricultural land, 13,000 acres of mera area will be destroyed; 200,000 trees will lose 33 million cubic metres of water annually. In the plan, a 36,453 hectare area will be divided into the housing areas, and we are talking more than four times the area set aside for the third bridge and third airport. With the housing areas to be built, 60 per cent of agricultural areas will be opened to construction. You've announced the investment cost of the project at 75 billion, the Transport Ministry has shown 118 billion; we think it's at least 200 billion. A 1 million-dollar settlement will emerge around the canal. Canal İstanbul is a zoning project for Istanbul Airport to live in. Istanbul has been removed from being a viable city, and has been offered the services of global looting with all its vital, cultural and historical assets for short-term economic and political interests. Publicisation means the destruction of livelihoods for people living in the region. The Canal Istanbul Project supports only one-third of the community, while 98 per cent of the 15-30-year-old group thinks it is a more important decision to take earthquake measures. Congressmans, our underground water supply is in danger. Water management will face disaster with the destruction of water resources that provide 29 per cent of Istanbul's water supply, which feeds our Yakos and Sazlıdere dams. In short, Canal Istanbul is a real estate and a runt project. In Turkey, where real wages have melted in the face of inflation, where the debt of households has increased dozens of times over the last 20 years, unemployment has increased and unemployment has increased, the price of this will be more severe than ever before in the Republic's history of Canal Istanbul and Turkey, which is living in a pandemic economic depression. At a time when the world's fresh water supply is trembling, looking for new ways to reach healthy and cheap food for everyone, you're going to drive your truck through agriculture, mera, wetlands, and forest areas that can't be brought back. The region of the channel, particularly between Smallsque and Marmara, is the weakest link. This place will be affected by at least nine earthquakes. The Channel Istanbul Project, where a model of financing based on looting projectism and transnational debt, is a fundamental indicator that power has become ideologically deadlocked. Scientific studies show the possibility of an earthquake of 7 or more sizes in the next 30 years. With each passing year, the risk is increasing. With resources to be consumed for Istanbul, Istanbul can be identified as a safe city against the earthquake, reducing the risks of destruction and loss of life for the Istanbul earthquake. As our President-in-Chief, Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu said, all the efforts of the Republic of Turkey must be to prepare Istanbul for the earthquake. Even with the financial figures provided for the Canal Istanbul Project, at least 1.5 million homes can be renovated from the earthquake in Istanbul. It is evident that reducing the inequality of income distribution, reducing the market pressure on public services, such as providing citizens with human wages, education and health, making global urban services cheaper and quality, protecting nature, creating a more viable city, taking measures against the climate crisis, spending public money on a project such as Canal Istanbul will benefit more than a handful of the common benefits of society. Our priorities should be protecting forest and water basins, limiting the population, streamlining transportation, transforming the stock of rotten and crooked structures to prepare Istanbul for earthquakes and climate change. What do we say? It's either the canal or Istanbul! [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Mr. Secretary, you gave Halicport to Fettah Tamince, you partnered with the Qatars, you opened up 350,000 square metres of sports in Kemerburgaz, you gave the Willowing Station to the Deputy Minister's brother to do AVM, you made a 750,000 square meters bid at Project Maslak 1453, you built 1,850,000 square meters.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0459par0236	Is there anything at Ethem Sandzak?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0458par0237	You've turned Haydarpaşa and the Vinegar Gars against your ally.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0459par0238	Isn't there any Ethem, Ethem?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0458par0239	In your farewell budget, you haven't budgeted for earthquake conversion fields. You have declared the area of the health minister's hospital a risk again, despite the court's decision to cancel. You rode the ladle of the business machine in 3 Minister Dereli. If a worker had done this wrong, he would have been relieved of his duty without severance, and you would not have even gone forth to make amends to the people.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0460par0241	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0458par0242	Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, civilizations and culture are longer than the life of the society that produces it. Culture is very late, long-lived. Maybe governments, societies can collapse, but cultures know how to keep themselves big in the harsh world. They are long-lived cultural products found under the soil in Anatolia. There's no way we're going to bring geography to a point where it's going to damage the values within its natural nature. There is an urgent need for the constitution of cultural urbanism. It's hard for a person to be a citizen, to be a citizen, to be a human being. We want a respectable Turkey, an honorable Turkey. We want a sense of urbanism, not of the interests of individuals, allies and palaces, but of the interests of the people. We've got a lot of savings on our backs. Great civilizations have consequences. I say this place has absorbed thousands of years of Anatolian culture in its heart, and is the Republic of Turkey, founded by the great Ataturk. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0461par0246	Mr. Murat Minister, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0462par0248	Mr. President, why don't you call it the MP? The other legislators are saying it, so why don't you tell them?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0463par0249	Mr. President, dear friends, the world is facing an existential crisis because of the climate crisis. Of course, we'll be affected by this problem as much as anyone else, and maybe we'll be more affected by it as we are by the region. And what does the Minister or the Ministry do, dear friends, when the world faces such a serious question of existence? I think it was July, Mr. Secretary made a statement, and he said, "The change of climate has become a national security problem." It's the right word, and I'll repeat it by correcting it: the climate crisis has become a matter of national security. So, what are you doing as Ministry about the first crisis? Look, dear friends, the Ministry's budget is in the total budget, 26 in a thousand, and the part that the Minister has reserved for the climate in his budget presentation speech is only 10 sentences in this brochure, dear friends. That's all you have to do with the climate crisis. (CHP cheers) The climate crisis may not know the devastating consequences of its crisis, the citizens on the street may not know. People write work, food, bread, work on their hands, and commit suicide, and burn themselves in the street for unemployment. But the state mind has to know that the world is going to a mass extinction, and that Turkey is in it, and that it must take precautions, dear friends. The Paris Treaty has been signed by 196 countries, and we are one of these 196 countries. Not only seven countries have done what they had to do with it, Eritrea, Angola, South Sudan... we are among these countries, dear friends. Why do you put us through this shame? In G-20 countries, only we didn't meet the requirements for it, bring it to our coven and approve it. We've told you 50 times, bring it to the House, and we'll confirm it so you don't embarrass us. Look, Covid-19 pushed back a lot of things in the world, made them forget a lot of things, and the climate crisis is one of them. But the climate crisis is as urgent as Covid-19 because Covid-19 is the cause of the world's pandemics because of the climate crisis. If you don't come up with a solution to the climate crisis, you won't be able to solve this problem tomorrow, dear friends, instead of the Covid-19. The world is heating up, and like the whole world, we will be seriously damaged by the Mediterranean basin, the countries in the Mediterranean region. According to the Home Secretary, we have 3.6 million immigrants. Add 4-4.5 million immigrants from other countries. If the world continues to warm up, account for the shortage of crops, the rising of seas, the lack of water, so many more people will come to Turkey. Because of the sudden irregular rains, we experienced Giresun. We will relive the likeness of Giresun, and we will live a great deal. It'll bring heat, drought and desertification. Dear friends, we said the world is facing an existential crisis because of the climate crisis. It also affects water stress. We're among countries that suffer from water stress. Turkey will reach its water-poor point as long as global warming continues in the future. We have a lake of about 300. Near the entire lake of large and small is either dry or small or unusable due to pollution. Meric, Ergene, Gediz, Great Menderes, Rebel, Iconia, in all our basins, the water can't replenish itself, it can't refill itself; we can't renew our resources. What's our loss of wetlands? We've lost 1.3 million hectares of water - three times the size of Lake Van. What did we do? The water problem is spoken in the world, it is spoken in all cities; we have made an agreement with Qatar. We're the 32nd place in the world at water strategy, we've made a water management agreement with Qatar, the 1st in line, friends. Water's on us, from Qatar. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The environment is a multidimensional issue. The shadow of all ministries is above the Ministry of Environment. The Minister of Energy came here at the budget speech, and he said: "You're against the wind turbines, you're against the surrounding cover." Brother, why are you making wind turbines in the forest area? Are we going to keep quiet? You do HES, and you destroy the river by attracting it, and you destroy the valley of Storm, and you destroy the valley of Munzur; shall we remain silent? You're disrupting the ecosystem. You make mines, and destroy the Kaz Mountains, and Cerattepe, and Fatsa, and shall we remain silent? You already have a record, so if you do it in the right place, we'll keep quiet. You're not doing the right thing. Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry running water. Water too important to leave to the DSI, dear friends. The shadow of the Ministry of Industry and Technology, the Ministry of Commerce, is above the environment.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0464par0260	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0463par0261	Mr. Secretary, are you telling the Minister of Industry, the Minister of Commerce, that we can't turn our own garbage, why are we importing plastics? (Applause from CHP rows) They call it economic value. Or do you go back to the Minister of Transport, the Minister of Transport, Kanal İstanbul, will ecologically destroy the environment of this country. Are you saying that you have returned for the crossing of the third bridge and destroyed the North Forests by this third bridge? You can't say that. There is only one will here, my friends; there is the will of the President, and that will has revealed itself, what did he say? "Money has no religion, no faith, no color, money is money," he said. He said it was a road map of neoliberal policies that led to the collapse of the environment. So there's no solution to the environment here, dear friends.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0465par0262	Will transportation be provided from the air?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0463par0263	Friends, we are neither master nor master of this planet. We, like all living, lifeless beings, are part of this ecological system, the ecosystem, we have to live with it. I'm out of time. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0466par0266	Mr. Hasan Baltacı, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0467par0268	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. First of all, I want to point out that there have been crises in Turkey before, economic crises, political crises, but never like this. Because it's not just an economic crisis anymore, it's a total regime crisis, and there's not a single economic and political vehicle left in the power to overcome this crisis. On the other hand, there are no institutions left in Turkey to overcome this crisis. This presentation lists billions of budgets belonging to ministries and institutions, but these institutions have budgets, they don't have them. For example, the health ministry, which has a 77 billion-dollar budget, if it really were, we wouldn't have to look for a person who lost his mother yesterday from Covid, because he lost his father for the same reason today. Our compatriots didn't have to call us every day because they couldn't find a place in the ICU. For example, when his physician, his nurse, his health worker, was exhausted, thousands of nurses, paramedics, technicians, technicians would not wait for the appointment. The trick, Mr. Secretary, is not to applaud health workers; the trick is to recognize Covid as a professional disease. The trick is not to build barricades in front of those who want to remember their colleagues who died from Covid, but to respect them, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I continue, if there really was a Justice Ministry with a budget of nearly 14 billion, if there were courts making legal decisions, not instructions, and if there really was an Interior Ministry with over 10 billion budgets, those who tried to lynch the leader of this country's main opposition party in Ankara would not be able to walk around the street. (HPP) This lynching attempt did not disturb you as much as the march of the miners at Ermenek. Minister, the trick is not to stand in the ranks of Osman Sarıgün, the cow thief; the trick is that we are not afraid of you in front of the commander of the regiment." It means. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Mr. Secretary, so that no one could starve during the pandemic period, the donations collected by the municipalities, the factories opened by the municipalities bothered you, but the $750 million that Meleh Gökçek gave to the dinosaurs didn't bother you. The trick, Mr. Secretary, is not to take a 40,000-dollar rosary gift from trustees who are completely corrupt; the trick is to answer for 3 billion in corruption filed by the Ankara Metropolitan Mayor!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0468par0275	The son of a bitch who buys 40 grand a gift! You're rude! That's rude! You're a toy for the PKK!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0467par0276	I continue: For example, if the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism with more than 3 billion budgets really existed, 95 per cent of Turkey would not have been able to say, "Don't sit in risky buildings after the earthquake in a country where earthquake tax has been collected since 1999." Mr. Secretary, we are the state standing in front of the ladle on the green road." The trick is not to send the gendarmes before your mother; but the trick is not to stand on top of the ladle in the flood of the flood, where the hens of Giresun Dereli have caused and 11 of our citizens have lost their lives; the trick is to lie in front of the ladle for the sake of the bird in heaven, and for the ant on the earth, so that the streams may not dry. The trick is not to raise 25 billion dollars from the zoning pardon; the trick is not to leave a homeless person under the bridge. (HPP) Mr. Secretary, it's not the canal; it's Istanbul. It's not about rolling in people's gardens, Mr. Secretary; it's business, it's business, it's business, it's about bread, it's about freedom, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, if the two ministers with a billion-dollar budget can't even decide the curfew themselves, then if you understand the existence of institutions in Turkey, where the treasure, the judiciary, the tenders are assembled in one person, when you're in front of a budget, then you don't exist.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0469par0281	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0467par0282	You have a budget, but you don't exist, you don't have a conscience in this country, you don't exist in the future of this country, you don't exist in 2023. In this presentation, the budget will grow every year in a country where millions are unemployed, business is closed, currency reserves are negative. That's right, if it's up to you, the budget will grow, but so will the budget deficit. The black holes that swallow this country's yesterday, today, tomorrow will grow, but the bread will shrink. But there's another option to expand bread and justice, to expand business and vaccine, and you don't have that option; we have that option.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0469par0284	Mr. Müzeyyen Sevkin, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0470par0286	I have made a commitment to the AFAD budget of 2021. I salute the High Council. The budget is 2 billion 85 million. This budget will provide disaster housing, drills, search and rescue, logistical support. That's good, but it's all about the post-flash goals, so the nests fall apart and the jobs after people die. So, where are the plans and projects for reducing disaster risks? You claim that the world is jealous of us, but it's still in effect in 1959, which was passed exactly ten years before humanity's arrival on the Moon. Friends, sixty-one years have passed, humanity is traveling to Mars, the country's population has tripled, all scientific and technical data on disasters have changed, but you still haven't changed that law. When it comes to your work, you change the Public Contraction Act 191 times. We've lost 17.480 citizens in the Marmara earthquake, 40 billion dollars in damage. Again, we've lost 1,119 citizens from 2000 to today, nearly 80,000 independent buildings are damaged and you don't care. Look, friends, it's been twenty-one years since the 99 earthquake, what did you do? From January alone to today, we have lost 240 citizens in earthquakes, floods, avalanches, and so on, and the last one in the Izmir earthquake, unfortunately. How much longer is nature gonna teach you guys? [[Applause from CHP rows]] We ask you once again: What did you do with the $35 billion you collected under the special communication tax for the earthquake, Mr. Secretary? Why don't you use that money to protect people's lives and property? Why didn't you spend the $23.5 billion you collected from the citizen with a zoning pardon for the vote on strengthening the risky buildings? Article 43 of the Constitution is about protecting the plains. Thousands of buildings have collapsed in Izmir, we have lost 117 citizens, but you go and settle in the same plain. It's not enough... it's not necessary to be a geology engineer, friends; you're doing reconstruction in the same place -- again, in Giresun, where we lost 13 of our citizens -- called the New Dere. How do you explain that? You're rebuilding in landslide areas. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear MPs, the Home Secretary said he'd pass the fault law, he hasn't come out yet, we're waiting for him, we're waiting for the fault law to come out. Why isn't there a disaster risk reduction plan in this country, folks?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0471par0296	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0470par0297	Why is it that in an earthquake in any country, when people can't even get their noses blown off, people in my country get ruined? Why don't we call it a campaign, guys? Why don't we bring up the technical staff, the qualified staff that can recycle cities, modern, safe, habitable structures? Why don't you buy public geology, geophysics, construction, mining, agriculture, environmental engineers, architects, urban planners? There's 160,000 teachers waiting, you can't appoint 60 grand. Our cities are insecure about nature-based risks, the economy is at the bottom, unemployment is on the ceiling, citizens are under the rubble, journalists are in jail, the chains are not boiling, the pots are not in the oven, but you are still in the sand, you know you're going to be in the election!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0472par0299	You haven't sent one in 18 years!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0471par0300	Mr. Yasar Charter, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0473par0302	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the internal budget. I salute your high council. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear Friends, I didn't say the Ministry of Internal Affairs budget, I said the Internal Affairs budget, because on April 7, 2020, the Home Secretary resigned and was condemned. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] However, on April 7, 2020, I would like to share with you part of the statement made by Mr. Nobleman. Mr. Secretary, why don't you stand behind this statement and this signature you made? (CHP clapping) You're resigning. Isn't there anyone else in this group or on the other side of the state's bureaucracy who can do Home Secretary? Ask yourself that question, dear AKP MPs.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0474par0307	We won't give you the pleasure, sir, we won't give you the pleasure.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0475par0308	It's because he made the Ministry beautiful.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0473par0309	Now, the citizens who have been infected by this chaos and chaos that you've created have a grudge against you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0476par0310	He'll keep bothering you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0473par0311	Our citizens, who are infected and ill, have an affinity for you. The relatives of our citizens, their relatives, who have passed away in the hospital because of this turmoil and chaos, have a covenant with you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0477par0313	Did Solomon take out the noble coronavirus?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0473par0314	It's not enough, it's not enough! Paramedics are all over you! It's not enough, the doctors have a thing about you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0478par0315	I wish you could pray as much as they do.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0473par0316	Not enough, the Minister of Health sitting right next to you has a thing for you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, these are after April 12, 2020. On April 12, 2020, the first aid for the 15th of July veterans and martyrs was not paid to these families, so the relatives of martyrs and veterans have a duty to you. Not enough, we will give 3600 additional indicators to police officers during each election period. The entire police force has a duty to you because you have not given them. (HPP's applause) Not enough, we'll put a staff of contractors, privates and privates in the Jandarma organization. You said, "There's a law on you by the police force." It's not enough that you've been suspended from your duties because they don't have a court order, and the mayors who have been arrested and the citizens who elected them have a grudge against you. (HPP) I'd like to point out that we, the Republican People's Party, will vote against such a decent budget.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0478par0319	We're shocked!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0473par0320	Dear friends, this week's domestic week, December 12th to December 18th, the political understanding that talks about domesticity and nationalism never brings it up. Look, refresh one memory: you sold Turkish TELEKOM to the Arabs, you sold PETKIM to the Azerbaijans, you sold to the Qatars, you sold the oil office to the Austrians, you sold to the Americans, you sold to the Americans, you sold to the British, you sold to the Digiturk, you sold to the Qatars, you sold to the Lebanese, you sold to the French, you sold to the French, you sold the Port of İzmir, you sold to the Israelis, you sold to the Israelis, you sold to the last stock exchanges.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0479par0322	Those tanks will be built!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0473par0323	Now, you've sold the government's institutions and institutions in such strategic positions, you're selling tomatoes, peppers, eggplants in this country, under the TANSASAS stores, under the distribution stores, and through the Agricultural Credit Cooperatives. The shame is more than enough for you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0480par0326	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0473par0327	My dear friends, yes, there is no need to be a chief, an agha; no need to be poor. There are reasons to get rid of the country's economic problems. Now, Republican People's Party MPs, I'm taunting you, I'm taunting my group: this is your last budget as opposition party, we will now manage Turkey, we will rule Turkey together, we will embrace Turkey; we will bring unity, peace, stability.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0481par0329	People don't vote for you with that head!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0473par0330	Now, finally, I'd like to say to poor Agha, who's selling the village, that the poor Agha is starting to sell tomatoes and peppers at the end of the film, so we've come to the end of the film, friends. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0482par0333	See you in the next budget, budget 20.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0483par0334	Mr. Mehmet Güzelmansur, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0484par0336	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on the budget of the General Directorate of the Immigration Administration. I salute the General Assembly and all our citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I will say at the very end: the government has failed in its immigration policies. One, you couldn't stop the brain drain. Two, you failed the inverse brain drain. Three, you exposed our country to the greatest migration in history. During your rule, brain draining has dropped to secondary school. You have made Turkey the 24th country that most brain drains. If you step away from democracy, restrict freedoms, push the future into uncertainty, the brain drain will also increase, and the inverse brain drain will fail. The third problem, the great migration movement, is the reflection of your wrong and adventurous foreign policy. One of the negative reflections of your wrong Syrian policy on our country is the migration of 3.5-4 million Syrian people to Turkey. The money spent on these in nine years is about 45 billion dollars, $3352 billion today's money, which is 39 billion a year, $3 billion a month. If you didn't have the wrong foreign policy in Syria, if you didn't have the means to get 4 million people to leave their homeland and move to our country, the money would be spent in service to our citizens, and that would solve the nation's problems. Look, for example, with this money, 352 public hospitals would be built, all without the government's guarantee of patients, without the government's safe being squandered. Or I'll tell you this: with only half of the annual money spent on the Syrian people, $2.5 billion, I'm honored by the work of Alexander's fellowman Uğur Şahin. The BioNTech vaccine, developed by Uður Şahin. What else would you do with this money? You could've paid 130,000 coffee shops for what you didn't care about, what you closed during the epidemic, and how you didn't care about how you'd get by, Mr. Secretary, for the last eight or nine months, 100,000 canters who couldn't bring bread to your house, the caterers who haven't been in contact for months, and all the other traders who've been miserable in the epidemic and have no choice but to borrow money. In the tourism industry, which was not working with the plague, you could easily pay the Syrian people five thousand liras a year with the money spent. You didn't explain a funny amount of support to musicians, artists, for which you had to sell your instrument for a living months later, you paid them all enough to make their minimum wage. With the plague, the mothers' problems of livelihood increased; the number of unemployed, poor, helpless mothers grew. With that money, you could pay the mothers at least for the poverty line. Baby food theft wouldn't be a record, it wouldn't be an alarm to the formula. In summation, dear friends, your wrong Syrian foreign policy and the mass migration it brought with it has always written harm to the country, to the citizen, but he wrote the most damage to Hatay. When Idlib became home to 40,000 radical terrorists, Hatay's 130km border became a terrorist nest. Is he back? He's back. Have you made Hatay a risky area? You brought it. Banks don't give loans, agencies don't get insurance? He's here. The investor, the tourist, he didn't show up? Okay. Have you closed the doors to 14 Middle Eastern countries? You're closed. Have you narrowed down our export routes? You've narrowed it down. Now we're dealing with pandemics, and Hatay is at the top of the most risky provinces. In 2002, when you came to power, Hatay had 11 hospitals in the Ministry of Health, 18 years passed, and that number is still 11. Do you know how much hospital capacity has been increased in Hatay since 2011, when you condemned Hatays to live with 500,000 people?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0485par0345	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0484par0346	Only 985. The migrating person is 500,000, the increased number of beds is 985. How could such irrationality be such an injustice? If you ignore the health needs of 500,000 people, if you don't increase the capacity of the bed, the capacity of the medical staff, if you don't build a hospital according to this, of course Hatay becomes the most risky of all; there's no bed, there's no medical staff. That is why today in Hatay, the rate of increase in cases is increasing exponentially, and the ambulance calls make seven and twenty-four streets moan, and the car can't reach burials, funerals, and graveyards. I wish to return from these wrongs at once, and salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0485par0348	Mr. Gürsel Erol, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0486par0350	Mr. President, I salute the General Assembly in person. From the beginning of the budget talks, there have been tense moments on this bench, debates. Lawmakers of the opposition party, lawmakers of our party, have voiced their rights on the stand, according to them. I'd like to make an assessment of the overall problems of my region, my science and my country with a slightly different perspective. First of all, I don't know if it's a coincidence, but three of our ministers who were assigned to Elazığ after the earthquake in Elazığ on the night of January 24th and stayed in Elazig for a month are here today, and three of their budgets are being discussed on the same day: our Minister of Interior, our Minister of Health, and our Minister of Environment and Urbanism. Thank you, all three of our ministers, for contributing to the right management of the one-month crisis process of the earthquake in Elazıg on the night of January 24th, but this does not mean that these problems are over in Elazıg. I would also like to point out that there are still problems with property rights, regulations, legislation, and problems. Also, I would like to extend my thanks and respects to our Turkish Armed Forces, law enforcement and law enforcement, who have succeeded in fighting terrorism. And I'd also like to express my regret here, and my regret is that I strongly condemn AK PARTY Deputy Chairman Cait Bey. Why do I blame you? While I'm reviewing the solution process here, I strongly condemn the terrorist organisation's view of the process as a process of abandoning PKK's weapons and participating in democratic politics. Mr. Group Vice President does not negotiate with state terror organizations, but fights state terror organisations. And in this country today, would those baby killers be sitting among us today as MPs if they had a result in that negotiation process? Can you account for that? Can you account for that? The state does not negotiate with the terrorist organization; change that statement, never use it again. The state fights the terrorist organization; it gives child killers no right to live anywhere, and it has the right to perform all operations across the border and across the border against terrorist organizations. I can't...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0487par0356	Don't pull me in here, I won't answer you without teasing you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0488par0357	Friends, please...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0486par0358	The Republican People's Party on all cross-border operations that have come to this Parliament has supported them.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0487par0359	Our statement is very clear.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0488par0360	Mr. Özkan, Mr. Cahit...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0486par0361	Here's your speech text, here's your speech text. The priority issue of all lawmakers in this parliament is loyalty to the state's existence, the independence of the nation, the indivisible integrity of the country. These are our priorities, and our priority is not to negotiate with terrorist organizations, but to warn you as a Group Vice President.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0489par0363	Leave it, leave it...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0490par0364	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0486par0365	I'd also like to bring up the issues of police personnel, police department and police headquarters. Mr. Secretary, I appreciate you taking notes on this. Number one: there are losses from different social rights, even though the police force, which served in the rural area, is in fact the same area of duty and authority. For example, the prison commanders are in large cities; in cities such as Ankara, in cities like İzmir, in Istanbul, in the rank of Brigadier General and in an additional indicator of the lieutenant general, the exception of the district manager of the police department is lower. There are tremendous social differences between county police chiefs and regimental commanders in the provinces. In addition, it was 60 years old in the police department when the retirement age was 65. They both have the same duty and duty duties. I think these statuses need to be evened out. On the other hand, in the event that Mr. President has brought up the period-long agenda, during which his party's prime ministers have brought up the election squares, especially for police officers, 3600 additional indicators, as well as for teachers and imams, must be given 3600 additional indicators. Also, I have a suggestion about those contractors and privates. Now, after a certain period of time, contractors and privates have the right to either switch to a public institution via horizontal transition or leave the post after a certain period of time. But these are law enforcement forces that have created a success story in the fight against terrorism, who know how to use the gun, how to fight against terrorist organizations, how to approach society in terms of security. According to their training, it's useful to provide the police with horizontal crossings as police officers, because they're experienced people, from weapons to counterterrorism. And again, the gendarmes who specialize in the gendarmes... they've got a big problem. These are occupational groups that normally come from three years of vocational training by finishing a vocational degree for one year at school, but now according to the newly released Military Code, they can leave two-year graduates as petty officers, but the police sergeants can't transfer to Petty Officers for three years, even though they've been trained in this job. We need new arrangements for these. In fact, one of the most important things I want to mention in my speech today is that there is only one father in the Republic of Turkey. The father in the Republic of Turkey is the father of the state. When the state shows its authority, it is defined as a father, and when the state shows compassion, it is defined as a mother. It is a disgrace to state authority that people who are living as mafia bosses today should not be processed after they first publicly disclosed their insulting manner and letter to Mr. President. Why is that a shame? So today, if you can take people into custody and take them to testify due to social media sharing, but there is a threat to the President of the Main Opposition Party in this country and there is no legal action against this threat, it means that the state's authority will be undermined. It's done to our President for today, and it's done to people with other titles and titles tomorrow. The same thing was done at the rod, and the attack against our president was ignored on the stick.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0491par0373	Complete your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0486par0374	After that, I think that a mob boss's statement about our president should not be kept silent, that state authority should be shown, and that there should be an account taken into account by processing him. Because political and political institutions come and go, they've served a lot of deputies before us in this Parliament, a lot of ministers have come and gone, but the traditions of state and state are permanent. When we don't perpetuate the customs of state and state, one day these mobsters will be able to threaten our children, our right to live, to threaten Turkey's authority and order of law. I wish the 2021 budget to be the last budget brought to parliament by the EC PARTY, with respect to the idea that the Republican People's Party and the National Alliance would make the next 2022 budget.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0491par0377	The Republican People's Party Group's demands have been met, and I will now meet the demands of the Justice and Development Party Group. First word, Mr. Arife Polat. Here you go, Mr. Straight.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0492par0381	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the budget for 2021 of the Ministry of Health, our esteemed lawmakers, our fellow citizens who have been following us. On this occasion, I salute you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Although there have been many silent revolutions in our country during 18 years of AK PARTY, the transformation in the health system in particular is one of the most successful areas. Do you remember how low the budget's health share was? I remember very well as a doctor. My teachers who used to evaluate it were told, "What can we do, not even 2.5 percent? " In 2002, 5 billion Turkish liras were earmarked for health and health, and 78 billion liras were earmarked for their health ministry and health ministry agencies this year. I can't pay for the hospital. Can you remember that there were patients who couldn't get treatment, who were suspended, who were held hostage, who had to wait for the report card to come out? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The ambulance couldn't go to the nearest hospital, it couldn't go to the nearest hospital; the hospital was chosen according to the patient's report card, but even for the most basic medical services such as examinations and emergency services, in the morning, appointments and pharmaceutical queues were in the dark, showing that the system was at its most basic and incapable of providing human service to the public. Thank God, now, those days are over. Our Ministry of Health in Turkey provides health care with more than 14,000 health institutions, with 934 of them hospitalised and 8,000 family health centres. By comparing Turkey with other countries, I would have expressed the success of the AKP PARTY. Those who were afraid, who could not speak, in 2002, we raised the total number of qualified beds to 147,655, in 2019. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) The days of our panic were near, you will remember, when we were in intensive care and said, "Is the bed enough?" Right now, the health system, which was blocked 18 years ago and at the point of collapse, has become a model in the world by experiencing a major revolution in this process. By the way, in our budget talks last year, I'd like to remind you of the words spoken about our city hospitals, the non-profit assessments. When we build these city hospitals, what is the need for our opposition from this parliamentary platform every day? It's an old-fashioned system in the world. Who's gonna use it? What are you going to build such a large hospital? They groaned in these halls with their very predictable and brilliant ideas in the minor. In the pandemic process, our city hospitals have had hundreds of fluids to refresh our citizens in pandemic panic. The number of intensive care beds in our country amounted to about 100,000, which is 34 in America; 10.6 in South Korea; 9.7 in Spain; 7.3 in Japan; 6.6 in England. I think that's the fate of the AK PARTY; we do the service, the opposition doesn't understand, shouts, shouts, makes a fuss. Then, when they realize how accurate an investment is and what a service is, they continue their new smear campaign as if nothing had happened.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0493par0388	It doesn't work, it doesn't work.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0492par0389	Your opposition has fallen on us, there's nothing to be done. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Dear lawmakers, there have been, of course, huge increases in health and manpower during our time in power. In 2002, at 257,000, the number reached 722,000 today. In this course of health, we can say that we will continue to improve the conditions of our health workers, especially during the pandemic period, who serve their country with superhuman zeal. In 2010, the Applying for Home Health Services began, and it's a beautiful practice, which our citizens are very pleased with, and hopefully in 2021, we intend to deliver it to 540,000 registered patients from 521,000 registered patients. We've brought all the reports into electronic media, and we've opened them to our citizens via e-government, and you can do everything on your cell phone right now. We started Electronic Register Application in 25 counties for birth reports, which can be mailed to the home address of newborn babies.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0494par0395	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0492par0396	Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers, our fellow citizens who are watching us, thank you to our entire health community, especially our Minister of Health, and I wish our health ministry's budget to be a source of good health, and I salute you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0494par0398	Mr. Ismail Sun, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0495par0400	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Health for 2021. I salute you and our beloved nation who are watching us on their screens. The Covid-19 pandemic, which we lived in in 2020, gave both the world's governments and our citizens the opportunity to see clearly where we are in terms of health care and also in terms of being a social state. We observed earlier that perhaps when we were sick, we considered that these countries, which were more economically advanced than our country, were unable to serve their citizens in this process, leaving their elderly to die because the number of intensive care beds was insufficient, that they were distressed in medicine and medical supplies. In some states, we have found that those who have money can be served and those who have no money are left to their own destiny. Without the outbreak of Covid-19 seen in our country, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, with the establishment of the Science Council under the leadership of our Ministry of Health, regardless of whether there is social security or social security, all the facilities for treating our citizens who have fallen ill have been mobilized. (ARK PARTI) I thank you from here; through our dedicated and experienced physicians, nurses, and all of our health workers, and as coordinator of our Ministry of Health, we bear witness that the pandemic process is very well managed by developed countries. I pray to all our citizens, especially the medical staff, who have died in this process, that we have the grace of God, and that our patients be healed immediately. Again, in this process -- very important here, friends -- the fact that 100,000 of our citizens today want to come to our country from 141 countries, like Britain, like Italy, and Germany, and to come to our country shows how much trust is really in our country. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] On the other hand, it is appreciated by the countries of the world to send medical equipment and spending to 150 countries, some of which are grants. How did we get to this level in health care, as in other areas, we've made great changes and transformations in health for 18 years? First, we raised the health budget from 11.3 per cent to 17.7 per cent. In order to strengthen the first step, family medicine has been introduced, allowing physicians to gain a better social and economic position, and allowing them to know and follow more closely the following citizens of our physicians. Thanks to family medicine and public health services, we have traveled far into the development of healthy generations by increasing the number of infants and mother impressions and by screenings of phenylketonia and newborn hearing scans in newborns. Dear lawmakers, as a result, birth rates increased from 75 per cent to 98 per cent in the hospital. We've reduced the rate of infant mortality to 6.7, while losing 31.5 babies in 1,000 living births. Again, we reduced our mother mortality rate to 13.1, as 64 mothers lost in 100,000 living births. We've achieved more than 95 per cent by moving to an extended inoculation program. On the other hand, we have made significant distances in combating food and life-related preventive diseases by implementing healthy living centers. We've increased the number of ketems and quality. In the fight against tobacco, the EC PARTY governments have really taken a historic step to avoid smoking in closed areas. At the same time, our citizens who want to quit smoking are being served at 537 non-smoking clinics for free. Friends, emergency health care has not only been spread throughout the entire country, but has been made free. The number of ambulances is 5. Dreams have been made by not being removed to 936, but by being activated by ambulances, helicopter ambulances, aircraft ambulances, boat ambulances. Today, the airline ambulance and 48,000 citizens have been served regardless of identity, economic status, social status. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, all public hospitals except university hospitals have been gathered under the Ministry of Health, making major changes in both management and infrastructure services. One examination room for each physician has been given more comfortable, faster, and correct health care, increasing the diversity and accessibility of medical analysis and imaging systems, with the introduction of the performance system, the right to choose a physician, the right to bring in patient rights, patient and employee satisfaction. In addition, unnecessary tests and examinations have been avoided by switching to the digital recording system.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0496par0416	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0495par0417	Dear MPs, most importantly, in terms of improving the infrastructure... the opposition is always talking about 13 city hospitals, we didn't just build 13 city hospitals; we built 677 hospitals, 386 additional hospital buildings, 102 dental care centers, 2,439 first digits, 3,604 health facilities. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] On the other hand, our qualified number of beds has risen from 6 to 75 percent, our number of intensive care beds and burn unit beds have increased 16 times. You're giving false information.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0497par0420	Look, the numbers here are the exact figures of the Ministry, Mr. Ismail.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0495par0421	We established a palatial treatment centre, and then we provided home care, and our satisfaction rate increased from 34 percent to 74 percent. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, I'll tell you, you're misleading people here: there's not only rents, there's X-rays in there, there's physical therapy, there's food costs, there's security after that, and there's all the services in there.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0497par0424	Look, it says here the cost of rent and service.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0495par0425	Don't fool people, you're deceiving people. People see everything, friends, people see everything.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0498par0427	Finish your words, Mr. Sun.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0495par0428	I congratulate all health workers, especially our Minister of Health for their successful work, that our budget for 2021 should be a blessing.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0499par0430	The bottom line is, we get robbed of more beds in three years! There's a robbery at city hospitals.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0498par0431	Mr. Hawk, you gave a speech, no one interfered.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0500par0432	No one interfered, Mayor. No one interfered as We spoke. No one interfered as we spoke, the AKP lines sat comfortably
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0498par0434	He was very calm and relaxed when you were talking. You're telling the truth.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0500par0435	It was very comfortable, yes.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0501par0437	There's bullying, Mr. President, and we want a say in this.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0498par0438	Mr. Mustafa Esgin, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0502par0439	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I begin by bowing with respect to the Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. From the first day we came to power, we created a world model with the Health Transformation Programme that we put into practice. This model has three main topics. By redesigning health care, we went to the world's destination and switched to the family medicine system. The second step is that we've collected hospitals under the roof of the Ministry of Health by co-advising health care. We've separated health services from financing. With social security reform, we've taken all the communities under social security umbrellas, and with revolutionary applications, we've made significant progress. Okay, guys, we've tripled the number of beds in our hospitals, increased the number of qualified beds by 20 times. We've increased our ICU bed count by 20 times. We've raised our health workers from 378 thousand to 1 million 100 thousand; we've increased them threefold. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, look, we distribute our human resources in a fair and balanced manner across the country, and this is very important. The top part of this graph you see here is the graph of the old Turkey. See, Iğdır, Ardahan, Tunceli, Diyarbakır, Van, Bitlis, Şanlıurfa, Şırnak, Ağrı; over 20,000 specialists were assigned to the population in these cities, as you can see, now that İzmir and Bursa are equally equal to Şırnak and Ağrı; yes, we have done a fair distribution of specialists. We don't expect you to see it, we don't expect you to appreciate it; our people's appreciation and blessing are enough for us.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0503par0444	People have appreciated it for 19 years, Deputy, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0502par0445	Look at the SEC statistics, former Turkey's SEC statistics were saying: "A Turkish citizen goes to the hospital 1.5 times." So what does that mean? He goes once, he can't go twice. Yeah, in our time, it's up to 9.8, within a year.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0504par0447	You've made people sick, sick!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0505par0448	He's very ill, folks, so he's very ill, and you've disturbed his health.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0502par0449	Yes, the speed of the baby's death -- look, it's a success story -- it's five stories down, not just in a month, not in a newborn, but under five -- yes, it's a success story, and the hero of this success story is our beloved nation.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0505par0451	It's not good to get so sick.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0502par0452	At birth, the mother mortality rate is calculated at 100,000, down five floors. And this graph means everything.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0506par0453	People's health.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0507par0454	Your Honor, I can't understand what you're saying.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0502par0455	And the hero of this success story, yes, is our beloved nation. All your numbers are wrong, you're misleading the public. In ancient Turkey, immunization rates were 70 per cent, reaching 78 per cent today. Here, you also gave false information about protective health care. Only in the 2021 budget -- we've increased 25 per cent -- we're spending 20 billion on protective health care. Dear friends, at the end of all of this, health satisfaction rates have increased from 39 per cent to 70. Yeah, we're the country that gives the highest satisfaction compared to the money it spends. I mean, we have been given the support of our beloved nation to this day, with a power that is most just, with the most accurate use of the resources of our beloved nation. Dear friends, the source for health care has reached 238 million liras. Thus, in 2002, we raised the budget share of health expenditures, which were 11.3, to 17.7, in 2021. The epidemic process showed once again how important access to health care is. The recent implementation of city hospitals has contributed greatly to the fight against the epidemic. Yeah, city hospitals, city hospitals... Dear friends, we've built 20 city hospitals in three years, 20 city hospitals, 22,000 additional beds at the service of our nation. They've been misled, too. Yes, we did it with public-private cooperation, with the general budget. We're building 16 more city hospitals, dear friends. Yeah, we're adding 22,000 more beds. By God's leave, we will continue to do these inspired services from our nation. We do it with a public-special cooperation model, we do it with a general budget, but there's only one thing we understand about politics, and it's service to our beloved nation, dear friends.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0508par0462	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0502par0463	We are forced to fight such a global pandemic only in the hands of the state, nation and nation, without any political parties being discriminated against. The virus can't be a political polemic material for any of us, but none of us. In the face of the global pandemic, the difficult situation for all mankind should never be put into everyday politics. Our health army, struggling with Covid, which is at the forefront, should not be capitalized in political interest accounts. No party representative, local manager or professional organisation should replace itself with the official body of the state, avoiding statements that would be infinitive in our people. The unfortunate polemics of the flu vaccine, please, no one do anything about the Covid vaccine. We'll all be successful in our fight against the global epidemic. We all share the hope that we will have a healthy and peaceful day together, and the Ministry of Health wishes our budget to be good, and I salute the Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation with respect and conversation.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0508par0466	Yes, Mr. Selim Gültekin, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0509par0468	Mr. President, the orator before the orator said the numbers are not correct, so I'm asking for a say. Mr. President, for the record, all of these figures taken from the Ministry of Health's financial tables are not made up; they are department of health financials, official figures.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0508par0469	Mr. Gültekin, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0510par0471	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in the fifth round of the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal on behalf of our EC PARTY Group regarding the budget for Turkey's Medicine and Medical Device Foundation. I salute our fellow citizens, our holy nation, and our Veterans Assembly, watching us on their screens. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Our country is engaged in an important struggle with all its institutions, especially our heroic health workers, which has won the world's appreciation for the pandemic of coronavirus. It has been proven that all health investments, especially city hospitals, were important during the AK PARTI rule period, so that our patients' treatments were best maintained without having a bed, medicine and medical equipment problem. The battle against the Coronavirus has once again demonstrated that domestic production, as in all areas, is strategically important in health care, especially in terms of sustainability. In the process, our country has supported more than 150 countries in the fight against respirators, masks, coveralls, disinfectant, and pandemics. Our internationally-recognised Turkish Medicine and Medical Device has licensed three drugs, including hydroxylorocine sulfate factors used in the coronavirus treatment, and six of them, again, with a high priority. These studies, conducted with precision and urgency, have strengthened our hands in the fight against the coronavirus, and our patients have quickly acquired their medication, and our rates in intensive care have dropped significantly. Our Turkish Institute for Medicine and Medical Devices aims to nationalize on our 2023 goals, making Turkey a self-sufficient country in medicine, vaccine, medical equipment, biotechnology and medical technology. (AK PARTY) As a result of the study, we have now produced 88 percent of every 100 canisters of medicine that we consume in our country in our own pharmaceutical industry. Our country has achieved an important success in local pharmaceutical studies, one of our most important strategic targets. In 2019, our exports of medicine and pharmaceuticals increased by 11.2 per cent from the previous year to $1.3 billion. As of 2019, our pharmaceutical sector is able to export to nearly 180, especially the European Union, North Africa and the Middle East countries. Dear lawmakers, thanks to our first and only drug tracking system in the world, the ITS, every drug production within Turkey's borders is being followed from import process to patient access to our patients at every step of the way, safely delivering the drug to our patients. (AK PARTI) Our Turkish Institute for Medicine and Medical Devices will also participate in the process of inoculation against the coronavirus and conduct security tests of vaccines in their own labs that will be imported to our country, and will allow vaccines when our country is in accordance with its standards, and then it will begin safely in our country soon. I would like to express from here that all our citizens should be customers and not be afraid to get vaccinated. Mr. President, in my budget speech last year, the construction of our new hospital, which cost 225m euros, modern 400 beds, with the support of our President and Minister of Health, is under way, and I want to thank you again on behalf of the nation's bench, Mr. President and Mr. Health Minister Niğde. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Now, in my 2021 budget speech, I'd like to give our Niğde a new message. Sirbey, we will tender our 60 units of modern oral and dental hospital, which will be performed in April 2021, which will cost about 50 million square metres of jaw surgery operations over the urban transformation area in our neighborhood, and hopefully start construction process in the early 2021s, to serve our fellow citizens in the early months of 2023. May the cradle and smiling face of Anatolian civilization be blessed for our Nigde. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Again, in 2021, we will give our neighborhood a new health complex containing ASM, TSM, 112, and a new family health centre to the district of Murat Evler on October 4th. We're also going to build a new integrated hospital in 2021, or we're going to build an integrated hospital, based on the earthquake-resistant test of our current hospital in the central city of Çamýr, which is located at Mount Demirkazik, which is 3.756m high. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Dear MPs, I give thanks to our leading, selfless, diligent physicians, my dear colleagues, our pharmacists, our nurses, our publishing crews, all of our heroic health workers, who are under the influence of the worldwide outbreak of Covid-19. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0511par0486	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0510par0487	I ask God's mercy to our health workers and citizens who have lost their lives in the process. Also, I thank Mr. Murat Kurum, our Minister of Environment and Urbanism, Mr. Murat Kurum, who, with great success, brought to the point of end of terror and made history the biggest blow to drugs, to Mr. Süleyman Soylu, who wrote history to build our future, and I wish that the Ministry budgets of 2021 would be good for all of my fellow citizens. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] With the success of budgeting 19 times in a row under the leadership of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the EC PARTI government wishes that the planned budget of the Turkish Institute for Medicine and Medical Devices for 2021 and the budget of serving Turkey for 2021 should be good for our country, for our nation; I salute our fellow citizens, our Gazi Assembly and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0512par0492	Mr. Ismail Tamer. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0513par0494	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget of 2021 of the Ministry of Health and Health Health Institutes of Turkey (TSEB). I salute our Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0514par0496	Take off the mask.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0513par0497	Dear Özalan, in fact, I especially want to say that we, as of last week's time with all our party groups, held a meeting at the President of Recep Akdağ as the Health Commission. At this meeting, we made some decisions on how to protect our lawmakers and colleagues who worked here, and we made recommendations. We told them that by visiting our Speaker, and then by visiting our Group Presidents, one by one. From that point on, I'll talk to my mask, not take off my mask.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0514par0499	That's right, bravo! We support it.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0513par0500	And I want to thank all of our friends, especially Ali Sugar, who fits the mask, and our other friends don't, but I want to express my wishes that we'll be able to follow it from now on.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0515par0501	I'm going to applaud you, too, but I can't. So I clapped.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0513par0502	My dear President, you're on a mission there without taking off your mask, and I congratulate you. Turkey's Health Institutes Presidency (TSEB) was established in 2015 with a law proposal -- that I was involved in -- in order to develop vaccines, drugs, diagnostic kits, medical equipment, project support in the field and run RD activities. It's an institution that provides infrastructure, supports and funds, which organises research in the field of health, by doing or doing it himself, and by co-organizing research work together. THE goal of TUSEB is to develop high-tech products along with scientific studies in the field of health, to establish standardisation of health care, to promote acretion, and to contribute to our country's health policies based on evidence. In addition to the study of institutionalisation in this context, TUSEB has been conducting serious work in addition to the other in addition to the Turkish Genom Project, the vaccine project, the Turkish Medical History Council and the Saint Sancar Awards. As part of the calls, 81 projects were applied, 42 projects supported in this sense. The first national biobank and omic center of our country is established within the St. Sancar Research Center, especially the biobank is finished, and the work of the omic center continues. In addition to these studies, a large number of additional studies have been conducted. 137 projects have been supported by 37 million TL. This year's budget, in particular, is 176 million. The Institute for Public Health and Chronic Diseases of Turkey, the Institute for Health Policy, the Institute for Quality of Turkish Health Services and Accreditation and Turkey's Biotechnology Institutes. The study of vaccines, medicines, ventilators, local respirators and diagnostic kits is under way. (AK PARTI) His most important work is during this Covid period, particularly during the Covid-19 pandemia process, where TUSEB has played a role in opening and operating test centers and promoting the kits along with the local ventilator. He supported eight local companies or working groups regarding the Covid-19 vaccine. Most importantly, it was the support of the vaccine that Ercias University was involved in, and hopefully we'll meet the local vaccine in April. (AK PARTY) I also congratulate those friends of ours here at Ercijas University, and all those who have also supported us, especially our Minister of Health, and I also thank them. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] On the other hand, the Institute for Health Policy in Turkey (TUSPE), which operates within TUSEB, has contributed greatly to the formation of health policies based on evidence through its national and international work.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0516par0509	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0513par0510	Dear lawmakers, before wishing that our health ministry's 2021 budget would bring blessings to our health ministry, our country, our nation, I would like to stress something here: during the Covid period, I congratulate my fellow doctors, health workers throughout Turkey, doctors, nurses, nurses, and all the friends who serve in health care services, I congratulate their efforts. That's where it says we'll play a big part in their recovery, kissing them all in the eyes. I pay my respects, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0516par0513	Mr. Erol Kaya. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0517par0516	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I made a commitment to the Ministry of Environment budget. First of all, I'd like the 2021 budget to be a blessing. At the very beginning of my words, I pray for God's mercy to our elders, to our scholars, to our intellectuals, to all our friends and to our patients who have died from the plague. I, if you'll excuse me, would like to continue my conversation with a few examples of the current ministry practices and reflections of the presidential government system. First of all, the integration of the public institution -- which produces the world's most dwellings based on the new system of our Environment Ministry -- which is close to 1 million -- has allowed our cities to be connected to the Ministry of Environment, planning, water, water, solid waste. Dear friends, the Ministry budget is certainly important, but it is more important how this budget is reflected in our society and what services have been established. The most important issue of our cities today is the earthquake problem. As Turkey, we literally faced the earthquake in 1999, and unfortunately, we learned about 20 years ago that neither our standards nor our building stocks were appropriate. The EC PARTY governments have made the first legal arrangements concerning the earthquake, and a large urban transformation campaign has been launched throughout the country. I'm not going to go into a lot of detail about risky field work, about transformation, about risky building detection, or the 673 thousand buildings that have been destroyed, but I want to point out that around 1.5 million units across Turkey and 300,000 independent units in Istanbul must be converted immediately. In this regard, not only as central administration and municipalities but as citizens but also as NGOs, we have to move very quickly. I'd like to give you a few examples of the impact of reform: You remember, in 2011, there was an earthquake in Van. A year later, a year after 2011, 25,000 dwellings were built, along with some 3,400 barns and social utensils. Excuse me, fellow Bayburts, but once a year, a Bayburt was built, a city built in Van. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) This is really something. Now, in 2020, we had the Elazıg-Malatian earthquake. Just after this earthquake -- not even for about a year -- 26,000 dwellings are being built in Elazıg and Malatya. Friends, a city larger than the population of our modern - day Tunisia was built. So I'd like to stress that the change in the government system is good for us to see the quick decision-making and reflections of the practice together. I lived the 1999 earthquake as a mayor. We've come from a government that can't be reached, that can't be removed, that can't be removed, that's under the rubble, that's built a new city in a year. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) It's really good to applaud this, to congratulate the ministers. From where to where, alhamdulillah. May God bless our President, our governments, and our ministers forever.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0518par0526	Amen.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0517par0527	Dear friends, let me just say that I care about the environment, especially drinking water, solid waste, waste water, and services like this, so I'm a former mayor, which is remarkable, and it's really important. But especially because the use of plastic bags related to zero waste has been reduced by 80 percent, I think that's something that should be very important and should really be congratulated. Another service has been completed in 22 counties, which are currently under way in the 77 counties of our nation's gardens. In fact, especially now our young people have been given a wonderful construction work that we can exercise with our families, which has joined our cities in color. And lastly, as a former mayor, I would like to thank you, again, for increasing the share of the central administration to local governments by 21 per cent. Let me give you the numbers: the money transferred from central management to local governments in Turkey in 2002 is 4.7 billion, currently estimated for 2021, 114 billion. You'll say, Turkish money and all that. So I'll tell you in exchange: $2.9 billion transferred to all the local governments of Turkey in 2002, 2019 is $17.5 billion. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) That means Turkey; that means AK PARTY. It's important to transfer resources, it's important to be fair here, it's important to treat everyone equally, it's important to be fair when you cut them, it's much more important. When I started mayor, with ten months of zero money, we tried to run for mayor because we were mayors of the opposition. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm just finishing up.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0519par0533	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0517par0534	Thank you. The opposition doesn't usually send money to municipalities, friends, it's fun. Alhamdulillah, in 18 years of the EC PARTY, both the resources sent to all our municipalities were transparently and the cuts were 40 per cent in all of Turkey's 1,389 municipalities and four months in the summer months, without cutting them off. Plant your seedling if you knew my words of the Holy Prophet (SAV) would come to an end. The decree is that the environment is a political, national value that all of us must claim. So I say we see the environment, not as an inheritance to us with water, air, trees and green, but as a trust of future generations, I wish the 2021 budget to be a blessing to our country, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0520par0538	Mr. Attila borrowed it. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0521par0541	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group regarding the budget budget and the Kadastro General Directorate budget for the 2021 Budget Law Proposal talks. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation with respect and gratitude. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Precious lawmakers serve 20 million citizens a year with the province and the borough-based structure of Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, whose roots date back to the Ottoman Empire and have a hundred and seventy-three years of history. As part of the deed and cadastro activities, our treasure was paid 12.2 billion Turkish liras in 2019 and around 16.2 billion Turkish liras in 2020 as of 30 November. The Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, where the state-state relationship is intense, was the most effective in the outbreak of Covid-19, where the public banks were able to complete the necessary documents of the Webtapu system, established by the Tapu and Kadastro Directorate, which increased greatly due to the appropriate interest-related housing loans offered by the banks. Thus, when the owners of the transaction should have had at least three personal visits to the property and cadastro administrations, the number has been reduced to 1. The number has been reduced to our citizens protected from the pandemic and the employees have been reduced to the minimum level of exposure to the epidemic. Dear lawmakers, in order to show the location information for moving into the deed and deed registration document issued after the deed was issued in the property managers' offices, the Karekod Smart Tapu was adopted. The deed is intended to ensure that the price for the transfer of the movers will be changed by a safe means. In addition, the application for the electronic delivery of architectural projects has been initiated, thus making correcting the faulty bloc and independent section numbers even easier. The Tapu Kadastro General Directorate provides quality documentation in accordance with TSE standards in all departments within the central and rural community. One of the major projects of our Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, Turkey's Tapu System, has been initiated, and the process is being completed by sending the application from any part of our country to a unit with the least of its work density, to an application for signature in order to be met faster in operations in which citizens' demands are busy. Thus, by reducing the workload between the project and the workload, there will be a more rightful, efficient distribution between the staff. Dear lawmakers, the title and cadastro diplomatic mission in Berlin has been in operation for more than three years, and work has been under way after our General Directorate has been given the authority to establish the foreign organization and has also been launched abroad in many countries around the world. In addition, the amendment to the legislation has also opened the way for transactions if the parties are in different places, and the bureaucratic stages have been eliminated. This is also a feature of being the first in the world. One of the most important tasks of our General Directorate, the facility cadastro, has been completely completed throughout our country and the property problem has been solved. Precious lawmakers, some of the cadastro technical services are covered by 224 LIHKAB, licensed map cadastro engineering offices, established by Law 5368. As part of the Kadastro Renewal Project of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, as part of the foreign activities of the Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, studies have been completed in 227 units so far, the tender of the 18 remaining units will be completed in August 2020, while the work of remaining units is completed in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, our Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, which have carried out its duties under state security, using all the technological resources of our age in the country's immovable property identification registration, protection and upgrade, will always be one of the essential elements of the Turkish public administration. I salute the General Assembly with respect and respect that the 2021 budget of our tapu and Kadastro General Directorate will be a better service and a benefit for our country and for our beloved nation.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0522par0553	Mr. Selami Altinok. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0523par0556	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group on the budget of our Ministry of Interior for 2021. On this occasion, I salute you worthy MPs and our beloved nation with respect and respect. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Before I begin my speech, I ask the undivided integrity of our country, the mercy of all the police, the gendarmes, the members of the Turkish Armed Forces, our security guards and citizens of our country, for the sake of our country and nation. And thanks to our heroic sons who were veterans during their missions. Our Interior Ministry serves our citizens in accordance with the principles of modern governance in everything from security to population services, from civil society to local government and immigration to disaster services. On the other hand, the EC PARTY governments have fought relentlessly against any terrorist organization such as PKK, DEAS, DEAC, DHKP-C from 2002 to now and continue to fight relentlessly. (EC PARTY) In this direction, the new concept of security was adopted, not when the threat came to us, but when it happened and where it was formed. (AK PARTY) On the one hand, armed operations and field pressure, on the other hand, the government is draining terrorism from its source. In this case, 839 terrorists were neutralized in 2020 along with a total of 106,836 domestic security operations. In total, our ministry performs these domestic security services with 579,000 police personnel, police personnel, Coast Guard personnel and security guards. In particular, our security forces, which have been wiped out of traitors in police, police, police, and Coast Guard after the July 15 coup attempt, have achieved a great deal of success against terrorist organizations, with the contribution of our defence industry's enormous development. The PKK has been brought to an end both abroad and abroad. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The fight against the 17-25 December Police and the judiciary began with a coup attempt and continued even more effectively after the July 15 coup attempt. We also see a similar example of determination in the fight against terrorism at the point of dealing with drugs. According to data found in the 2020 World Drug Report, 19.3% of heroin seized worldwide in 2018 was captured by law enforcement units in our country. Drugrelated deaths were reduced from 342 in 2019 to 143 in 2020, with a 58% decline in 2020. We also see the positive results of our interior ministry's policies based on planned, selfless and scientific methods at the point of traffic safety. When we evaluated 2020's latest current figures at the same time of last year, the fatal car crash dropped from 1,981 to 1,811 percent, while the number of people who lost their lives at the scene of these accidents dropped from 2.379 to 2.86%. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We're also seeing significant successes at the point of security, as well as the effect of the re-functioning of the guarding practice. I congratulate our governors, our governors, and all our security forces, especially our Minister for this successful work. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As part of the loyalty support services of our Ministry, under the leadership of our governors and trustees in the fight against the entire world, the ministry has made a great effort to ensure that there are no citizens left in the open and hungry with the efforts of our police, gendarmes and other public officials. On the other hand, in population and citizenship services, 75% of our population's identity papers have been renewed by the application of the identity card of the Republic of Turkey. As of November 2020, the driver's license has been loaded into 600,000 ID cards, and studies continue. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] On the other hand, Alazig, Simav, Van and Izmir, who have been in our country since the presidency of the disaster and emergency management...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0524par0574	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0523par0575	...he fought very effectively and quickly, and with his successful post-an earthquake healing policies, he quickly healed the wounds of our fallen citizens. As soon as the floods in Antalya, Samsun, and Sinop have been coordinated with the relevant institutions, they are quickly completed to try to normalize life in the disaster zone. Mr. President, with these thoughts and feelings, I salute and honor the precious members of our Veteran Assembly, our heroic security forces at the border height, the mothers of Diyarbakır, who fought to save their children from terror, the martyrs who did not break the nation's stand to bring down a part of its life to the ground, our state, our nation's welfare, the president, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who defied seven heifers for the welfare of our nation. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] I wish that our ministry's 2020 budget would be a blessing, with all due respect, with all due respect.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit05spe0525par0580	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0525par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. The commission is in place. We stayed in talks on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Now it's time for Mr. Halis Dalkic. Here you are, Mr. Dalkilic.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0526par0008	First, let our Lord deliver the whole nation from this mask, and from this plague, and from those who hide their true faces with masks on their faces, and from those who hide their true faces, let God deliver our people at once. [[From the AK PARTY lines, the voices, the applause.]] Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of my group on the budget for 2021 of the Police General Directorate. I hereby salute, respectfully, our beloved nation, our esteemed MPs, our ministers, who we have hosted today to discuss their budgets in our Parliament. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, for a hundred and seventy-five years from the day it was founded, I remember our law enforcement officers, who have served faithfully and faithfully in their duty, including the fight against terror and organised crime, who have honored us in all their duties, with their great sacrifice, courage and heroism, and who have been fighting with honor and gratitude in order to protect our nation at the end of the coronavirus epidemic. If terrorism is no longer the first agenda in Turkey today, then the subcontractors of global forces can't act in our cities, dig a ditch, bomb, and slaughter our innocent citizens, then the role of our security forces in the co-ordination of our interior ministry is great. In 2020 alone, our law enforcement forces conducted 102,000 domestic security operations and disabled thousands of terrorist centers in operations. I express my gratitude to our law enforcement forces who have waged this great struggle, to our law enforcement officers, to our soldiers, to our police, to God's mercy, to our veterans, who have been martyred in their duties, and to the best of their budget. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, today is the sixth round of our budget meeting. We're talking about Turkey's 2021 budget in conditions of pandemics, which have clamped the entire world, shaken humanity, and made it inevitable to establish a new world order in every sense. In this case, the economic recession of countries, states' budgets and bodies, which each individual feels to the bone, continues to shake. We, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in the lead of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, want to overcome this process with superior efforts and sacrifices with our law enforcement, our economic administration and all of our institutions, with minimal damage, and unfortunately, we are having difficulty understanding the way of opposition, which began with Mr. Kemal Kildaroglu on the first day of the budget, starting with the ongoing perception of lies and slander. They think slander and insult are opposition. We really don't understand this form of opposition that ignores the emotional, geographical and economic conditions of the country in style and method, which is the honorary struggle of not being able to give up on anyone and not giving up any rights. We really don't understand. Turkey has continued to boost the appetite of greedy colonists since Sultan Alparslan's critical position between east and west, especially since its reign, and has made Turkey their target and the focus of constant attacks. Life is all about conscious choices we make, members of lawmakers. Some are clear, bold, clear; some are treacherous, treacherous, and have made it a habit. (EC PARTY) Some people think they're merchants, they think they're buying and selling everything; others are artistic, melancholy; others are slaves, they're just taking the good things of their masters. All we care about is raising the honorable, noble struggle and hope of our people in these difficult conditions of the world. Whether we are 7 billion people, or thousands of nations, or dozens of sects, there are only two ways for man to become a man, to take possession of his land and values, to fight, or to experience the dishonor of being the puppets or slaves of those who have eyes in his land. Our ranks and our struggle are clear, we are on the side of our country and our nation. That's our only side, there's no other side.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0527par0016	That's right.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0526par0017	And this struggle that we're having is a high and deep level of consciousness, and we're unfortunately the target of every ideological, political community that doesn't understand this level.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0528par0019	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0526par0020	As people who share the same geography and fate -- we may have political party differences -- we should never forget that it is our duty to stand guard over the mercy, compassion and justice of Muhammad (SAV) -- to be the patriarch in this time of loss of human conscience. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It really hurts us to hear here the language of our enemies of Turkey, the language that upsets our people, that sees opposition as hostility to the nation, that feeds political differences as hostility to the nation. In matters of national unity, in matters of tie, the political party should be united here, regardless of the difference. Turkey and our nation have great goals ahead of them, and we will march on them. If you want to come to power one day, take your eyes off this nation like Recep Tayyip Erdogan, son of this nation, and put your head under the stone, I salute our great nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] May our budget be a blessing.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0529par0027	Mr Kemal Çelik, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0530par0029	Mr. President, members of our Veteran Assembly, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Police Department. I hereby salute our great nation and our coven. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan is greater than the world 5, which reveals the fact that he will not bring peace and peace and justice to three or five countries that do not exist in the world. The atmosphere of unrest and terror in every country is at stake. As a matter of fact, the principle of the Constitution is in the initial text of our Constitution, and it is more important that we keep it in our hearts and in our minds. Why? Because whenever Turkey launches a development move, those who want to prevent it from taking national interest and rights are seen to have prepared a climate of confusion, disorder, terrorism and coup. In yurtta, peace in jihanda. The word means that if there is no unity and order in the dorm, we will not find the power to protect our rights outside. You are following a security policy. Let those who speak of it know that domestic security and inner peace are the infrastructure of all development, democracy and freedom. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] To consume a country in political instability through terrorism and coups is a method the imperialists have been working on our country for years. Let's start with a concrete example from our recent history: there is no one who doesn't know the quality and importance of the GAP project for the full development of the region, and the imperialists know it very well, and so in 1984 they immediately activated the PKK terrorist organization. The dirty ideas of the PKK, which is the embodiment of the imperialists, are also included in PKK's dirty documents. Dear lawmakers, I don't know if anyone still considers it a coincidence that PKK terrorism should follow the GAP project, or follow a project belonging to the Southeast Anatolian Region, or that our Kurdish citizens are pursuing a project aimed at developing areas where they live more intensively. The PKK is a bloody terrorist organization that hurts most of our Kurdish citizens and prevents the development of the region. Again, remember, the United States handed over tons of weapons and ammunition to PKK/YPG terrorists on our southern border. No one knows that these weapons are a threat to our country, not to the fight against the DEA. We know very well that both the PKK and DEAŞ are holding the same hand, that it never thinks of the people of the region, and that it wants to establish a terrorist state there. In 2020 Turkey, those who no longer see these facts either have a problem with their mental powers or we call them traitors who ignore these facts. We say to those traitors, "You are being used, and do not dream of a single shred of what you have in mind." We've never allowed or will ever have anything against us beyond our borders. And the ground that gave you the chance to dream yesterday is no more, it's over, and the partner of these dirty ambitions is finished. The traitors who infiltrated the state and shaded the will of the nation and state have been singled out and now, thankfully, peace has been restored to the dorm, and now it's time for peace. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] With strong co-ordination among state institutions led by our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our Interior Ministry has achieved great success in fighting terrorism. In this success, strong leadership, strong civil administration and the ruling government system and the Republic Alliance are the most decisive factors. This strong will allows all of our security and military intelligence units to act in co-direction. Today, we are able to protect our interests in the jihad with the government, which corresponds to the will of the nation, and to gain control across the border. Dear lawmakers, there is a country in Syria that has successfully drained its army of terror from its source in border operations, thanks to a peaceful environment in domestic security. In Libya, Turkey broke the game. Turkey has supported Azerbaijan's victory by acting on the truth of Azerbaijan in Karabağ.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0531par0039	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0530par0040	And it's no coincidence that our security forces and our army are targeted inside and outside in the face of all these achievements and developments, and this nation will never forget who targeted our army. Armenian in Karabağ, Greek in the Aegean, French in the Mediterranean, French in the Middle East, Israel in the Middle East, Hafter in Palestine, Hafter in Libya, YPG in Syria, and those who speak with the PKK mouth in Iraq will never forget this nation. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] Mr. President, in addition to dealing with this extraordinary siege, our Security General Directorate, even under negative conditions of the epidemic, maintains public order in our country without problems. The fight against drugs, fighting organised crime, smuggling immigrants, cybercrimes, and all public relations have been a major success. In these feelings and thoughts, Mr. Home Secretary, I congratulate and commend our heroes, who have served in all of our departments of law enforcement, and salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0532par0045	Mr. Ahmet Zenbilci, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0533par0047	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute you all. Just two days before my words began, two of our soldiers were killed in a bomb attack by PKK/YPGs in the Eluayn region of Syria. I wish our Captain Yasin Kurt and Sergeant of the Gendarmes Oğuzhan Anar. I wish their families patience, my condolences to our nation. Precious lawmakers, our fight against any threat to this beautiful country will continue and continue abroad. In 2020, our Ministry of Internal Affairs -- with many tasks and authority, but with that authority -- passed a serious test, a serious test. With the outbreak of Covid-19, his struggle with different earthquakes and disasters has been intense. Our Ministry of Internal Affairs and the EC PARTI government... I thank you to our General Command, Police Headquarters, Coast Guard Command, and all members of the staff, especially our Ministry of the Interior, who are acting on the basis of these studies. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Congressmans, our Home Office has a very different personnel structure and office. There are Coast Guard personnel on a boat with a lifeline for an immigrant, just like the Gendarme staff who are standing guard at 3,000 metres altitude, who barged into the terrorist's lair without blinking. The police department is always a security unit loyal to its homeland, its nation, and its republic, an example of sacrifice. One of the most influential and experienced institutions in our state, the General Command of the Gendarme since 1839 is the principle of trust in the protection of the lives and property of our people, in the protection of the public order, in the well-trained staff and in the equipment of the enemy, in the principle of fear, in the flesh. The Gendarme General Command has been active in Operations of the Olive Fountain and the Spring Shield and is still fighting to ensure the peace and security of the region, which is carried out to disrupt the plan to form a terrorist corridor and a terrorist state in the north of Syria. Gendarme General Command serves a large part of Turkey with more than 200,000 personnel, including 2,000 women as of today. The PKK, which has been a threat to terrorist attacks for many years, continues its struggle with terrorist organizations -- including PKK, DHKP/C, MLKP, MKKP and TKP/ML-TİKKO -- in the fight against terrorist organizations in the country and abroad -- after the coup attempt on July 15, 2016. In the country, Kıran, Kapan continue to be a pressure on terrorist organizations by Operation Lightning and Operation Claw/Caplan in the north of Iraq. From 1984 to this moment, the government and our government have fought to the weakest moment of the terrorist organization, participation in the terrorist organization has become very low, and accession to the terrorist organization has been reduced to the figures of 50. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] Successful intelligence and operations in Adana, Mersin, Osmaniye, Kayseri provinces have also been neutralized by terrorists serving under the top-level leadership of the DEA. Development of drones, drones and mini-micro drone systems, developed by local and national technologies within our General Command, have been active in natural disasters and earthquakes, as well as in the fight against terrorism, and have been able to fast-track their movements through their flights to the centers and quickly intervene. With the search and rescue teams in our Police Command, the battle continued quickly. My dear friends, we all remember the Aylan baby on the basement beach a few years ago -- September 2, 2015. Here, the Coast Guard Command and the gendarmes' cooperation have been fought and the struggle continues. Our esteemed lawmakers, the Coast Guard Command, are a respectable institution that extends to the second half of the 19th century, first comes to mind in the seas and gives them confidence. We will never forget the sacrifice of the Coast Guard Command in charge of the security of our beaches, especially against human and property traffickers.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0534par0060	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0533par0061	In addition, these radical organizations have become much more active in their technological and other positions by forming a pool of intelligence in unity and unity under the direction of our President. My dear friends, the end of your tunnel has appeared in the fight against terrorism. Let's hope this nation gets to the end of this. With our President's new-term security strategy, he continues to perform uninterrupted operations to destroy terror at its source, particularly our interior ministry, our other military personnel and security personnel, from the very presence of all of you, sincerely kissing their foreheads, wishing our dead, our martyrs mercy, health and pleasure to our veterans. I call upon our budget for good, and I greet you all with respect and conversation.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0535par0066	Mr. Sare Aydın, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0536par0068	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of the Immigration Administration General Directorate. I salute our coven. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The international community has faced a rare exodus crisis in the past. Today, there are nearly 260 million immigrants worldwide, over 71 million displaced persons and over 26 million refugees. For reasons such as economic reasons, hunger, famine, civil wars, terrorist attacks, and political uncertainties, the number is increasing day by day. People have to emigrate not only for a better job, but for a higher standard of living, to sustain their lives, to feed their bellies, to find food for their children. These journeys of hope, unfortunately, often result in death, disaster. In the last seven years alone, most women and children, 20,000 people have been victims of raging waves in the Mediterranean. Thousands of innocents died in the heat of hell in the Sahara Desert. There is a great drama, a sad story in the background of the issue we today generalize as the housing problem. The bodies of the little boy who hit the beach have shown the world that the problem can no longer be ignored. Dear friends, since 2011, our country has hosted the Syrians, who have reached 3 million, 641,000, as you all know. I want you to know that we are also facing a labor migration from Central Asia, the Middle East, and the Sub-Saharan African countries towards our country. On the other hand, over the last three years, we have to deal with more and more than 113,000 irregular migrations. The General Directorate of the Immigration Administration, the Ministry of Interior, successfully manages the process by referring to the sensitive balance between public peace and human rights in cooperation with our relevant public institutions, law enforcement agencies and governorships, as well as the National Action Plan and Immigration Strategy Document. We thank them in that sense, our entire Ministry of Internal Affairs and our employees at the Department of Immigration. We are trying to establish a new administrative and legal capacity with the International Protection Act against this intense migration of foreigners and international immigration, while socioeconomic integration, as well as the double standard of the European Union, which, by rising racism, turns the streets into a fire, violates international law for its benefit. Today there are 28 return centres in 23 counties with a total of 20,000 capacities. About 1.2 million irregular immigrants have been arrested since 2016. Note that this number corresponds to the total number of refugees in Germany, which has the most refugees in Europe. Again, the Firat Shield returned to its country, volunteering for nearly 420,000 Syrians, following Operation Olive branch. We will continue to lead the comebacks in a manner worthy of human honor. Dear friends, immigration is nothing to be afraid of. I too am an immigrant to Germany in 1969, the son of an expat father, who spent his youth there. I know what it's like to be exposed to alien hostility, to be labeled. No matter what you say, I do not associate a guest in our country with our history or values. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) It is our duty to accept the fact of our migration and rule for the benefit of our country. Now, I would like to express to you that with a few things I'm about to give you, the Syrian refugees living within us shouldn't be seen as a burden. Most of the Syrians living in our country are tradesmen and craftsmans. In Turkey, the total number of Syrian companies increased by more than 10,000, providing more than 100,000 jobs, including our Turkish citizens. So far, 60 per cent of Syrian-owned companies have a total capital of 195m euros, and still 20 per cent of all companies established by foreigners in our country are Syrian entrepreneurs. Please consider that these companies have invested 1.2 billion euros in Turkey so far and do not ignore it. Let us not forget that scientists who led vaccine studies in the outbreak of Covid-19, which turned the world upside down, Uğur Şahin and Özlem Türeci, who migrated to Germany, formed their companies today, hoping for the world, on the land of a country that does not belong to them.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0537par0079	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0536par0080	However, we are also reading reports of immigrants who have been excluded from Europe who have been destroyed, attacked by mosques, insulted by their identity, their faith. And that's the most important thing that separates us from Europe, is that we're a nation that doesn't prevent us from sharing our bread and our home against the guests who come to our door, who take refuge in us. But the world is changing, the number of immigrants is represented by millions. Thus, if immigration is governed by reason and common sense, it becomes power and wealth. If political blindness and bigotry use the refugee as a tool to harvest voters during election times, it becomes a huge burden if it is governed by hatred and alien hostility. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In contrast, we believe that migration in terms of the culture, experience, experience, diversity and manpower that immigrants bring with them is opening the door to new possibilities, opportunities, cultural economic wealth and a common future. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0538par0085	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Mr. Serap Yasar, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0539par0088	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the budget of the Immigration Administration of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As a lawyer and as a member of parliament, I am very pleased to address you this year at the Assembly General Assembly, as it has been in the budget of the General Directorate of Immigration, which has been working closely on human rights, illegal immigration, human trafficking, and strengthening its structure over the years. As Sheikh Edebali said, we are the children of a civilization that has written on the door of our Topkapi Palace. Today, with the same consciousness, all our policies are based on justice, morality and conscience, and our immigration policy is involved because the deafest sound in the world is the silence of a suffering underdog. On this occasion, the world is bigger than the voice of all the oppressed. I thank Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who speaks loudly on every platform. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] Respected MPs, he should have had a place to stay, not a place to go. The poet says. Indeed, migration is not only a journey from one place to another, but a process of despair leading from the sufferings left behind to the uncertainties of the future; it is painful, fragile; it is a path to the unknown in the shadow of despair to sustain life. Here, one of the great problems of immigration is the drama of lost children. As the European Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe began its report on the Lost Refugees and Migrant Children's Report, our reference point was that more than 10,000 refugee children disappeared from the European Union between 2015-2016. But in our reporting work, we've seen that the real situation is very much on the basis of this discovery. 32 countries have responded to the survey, used by the European Parliament as a reference document through the European Centre for Research and Documentation (ECPRD) and to the national parliaments of 54 member states. According to this survey, more than 100,000 immigrant children disappeared after arriving in European countries in 2019. Even that number is just the tip of the iceberg. From here, I address all states from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: the safety of children is a legal and conscientious obligation for all states. No one should sleep peacefully in bed until the lost refugee children's problem is resolved. Honourable MPs, you all know the story of the starfish. There are thousands of starfish, you can't throw them all away. If you are asked to throw it away, what difference does it make? Look, a lot has changed for him. As he said, saving one child may not change the world, but his world will change forever. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] During the past month, Elif Naz, a three-year-old who was separated from his family when he and his family tried to cross the border with Greece, was placed in an immigrant camp, and I personally witnessed the efforts of our Migration Administration in order not to become one of these missing children. There are many more Elifs, Aylans, but happy for us, we also have a noble nation, a powerful leader who embraces immigrants with mercy, an ancient state understanding, and a powerful government administration of the Immigration Administration. (ARK PARTY) While we are looking for a solution to the problem of immigration, there is also a great drama of humanity in the waters of the Aegean. Women, men and children are being pushed back every day by increasing number of refugees using violence, shooting at their boots, being dipped in inhumane treatment. This violation of international law has been recorded by respected media agencies as well as the findings of NGOs. Moreover, all of this is happening in front of Frontex, the European Union's Border Safety Unit, as if it denies the existence of its existence.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0540par0098	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0539par0099	But our view of immigration must be united at the point where our common value is human and our common concern is humanity. There are all these negatives happening on one side of the world, and on the other side, we can't talk about the two Turkish immigrants who found the vaccine that could save the world from the Covid outbreak. As the success of Professor Uður Şahin and his wife, Dr. Özlem Türekıl, will be written in human history, it will be proudly written in immigrant history. Again, we must remember that the history of the world's migration is full of these and many other good examples. As I end my words with a world of wishes, where people who have to leave their homes and their homes and their homes are treated with the dignity of humanity for whatever reason, I would like to congratulate our General Directorate of Immigration, whose most humane responsibility he has taken. I'd like to thank our head of the Immigration Administration, Dr. War Celebrity, and all members of the organization, especially our Minister Süleyman Noble. I wish that the budget of 2021 would be a blessing to our country, to our nation, and to all of you, with respect, I salute you with love.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0541par0103	Mr. Recep Uncuoğlu, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0542par0105	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTI Group on the budget for the President of Afet and Emergency Management of the Central Management Budget Proposal of 2021. I salute our Veteran Assembly. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Before I begin my words, I would like to offer my condolences to our citizens who died in the earthquake in İzmir and in all the disasters of Cenab, and to their families and to our beloved nation. The year 2020 was the year of the Covid-19 outbreak, as well as many disasters from the earthquake to the flood. Turkey's disaster management agency and international aid agency, AFAD, have also maintained disaster management activities, while serving as part of the Loyalty Social Support Groups in the fight against the epidemic, leading the quarantine processes in the dorms. AFAD is in the service of Turkey, Turkey and humanity, with 6,000 personnel, 2,000 search and rescue parks of 780 vehicles. The work of the İzmir earthquake was carried out by 10,863 personnel, 1,554 vehicles and 25 search and rescue dogs; 2,338 tents were installed, 30,518 blankets, 21,714 sleeping sets, 5.946 heaters were distributed by AFAD and Kızılay. As part of the feeding service, 1,17,420 meals were provided. The source transferred by AFAD is 43 million liras. Citizens who are not able to receive their belongings from destroyed and destroyed buildings will receive 30,000 lira; owners of broken, broken homes will be destroyed; and tenants will receive $13,000 and rent assistance. Mr. President, in all 37,385 tents and 7.871 containers were set up after the floods of Elazig Dizice, Van, Bingol and Giresun during the year 2020, and again, $338,120,000 in emergency aid payments and expenditures. In addition, as a result of all the disasters, only in 2020 were $1.2 billion of emergency aid allowance, $443m in infrastructure damage costs, 639 disaster housing were completed, while 2.896 were being built. The construction of 24,304 dwellings is also under way by TOKI. In 2020, the AFAD measured more than 30,000 earthquakes in our country. Turkey, which was one of the world's first five observation networks, was the second largest in Europe, carried out by the Earthquake Observation Networks through 1,100 stations. Many studies on earthquakes (AFAD-RED) continue from the Earthquake Predated Damage and Lost Expectation System to the Deep Well Sismometer Networks. On the other hand, the preparation of the State Disaster Risk Disposal Plans has begun. The plan, completed as a pilot in Kahramanmarash, will be completed in 7 counties by the end of 2020, and by the end of 2021, in the entire province of 81, hopefully. Under the ongoing preparations for Turkey's Afet Intervention Plan, in 2019 and 2020, the Ministry of Interior conducted unannounced exercises in 19 districts, 120 district levels, and one national-level exercise in addition to 20 regional exercises. Regarding the disaster management, 512 disaster-preparation meetings were held in Istanbul special, starting on 26 September 2019. Today there are 1,715 gathering sites in Istanbul and 18,971 in Ankara, with access to AYDES on December 4, 2020 across Turkey, including 1,646 in İzmir. Our citizens are able to question e-government and AFAD websites. As of 2020, we are out of cities without logistical storage and logistical support. More than 1,400,000 people have been trained in disaster awareness within 2020, with the project of Ready Turkey, which is ready for disaster awareness, in order to boost disaster awareness and raise disaster awareness to the highest levels in the community.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0543par0113	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0542par0114	Its 2021 target, declared the Year of Disaster Education, is to reach each of 83 million of our citizens one by one. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we congratulate the AFAD (AFAD) on its successful work and international humanitarian efforts since its establishment in the area of disaster management, which is almost a necessity for our country's sustainable development. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As a brother of yours who lived in Sakarya, in Turkey today's 1999 earthquake, I would like to thank our Minister of the Interior, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, to all our AFAD executives (PARTİ desks, VALTs, applause) and all our ministries of the year 2021 budget of our institutions, to be blessed, blessed, and to be blessed by God, the Lord of God. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0544par0120	Congressmans, talks on behalf of political party groups have been completed.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0545par0121	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0544par0122	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0545par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. Speaking earlier, İstanbul MP Halis Dalklıc also mentioned the name of Mr. President on the first day of the budget.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0544par0127	Here's to the stand.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0545par0129	He who lies, he who lies, he who is a bastard, he who is a scoundrel.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0546par0131	Amen, amen.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0545par0132	Mr. Dalculic claimed we were lying. For example, Mr. President-General said: "You have attached 121 lira to the father of the martyr. I gave the document to the Vice President. We didn't lie. Mr. Dalkülic also did some honorary literature. It's not a very honorable job, Mr. Dalkulic, to watch the government pay his martyr father 121 lira. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We're fighting Covid-19, he said, "Let's all be united in solidarity." We said: "A sister receives an additional 24 lira." Dalklıç, where are you? Here's the document. We didn't lie, but it's not a very honorable job to watch a nurse working for a month receive an additional $24 performance fee.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0547par0136	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0545par0137	It's possible to replicate these examples, but I'll tell you something else: we're talking about the budget, you're talking about Turkey taking over. The Aylan baby was just mentioned by a congressman, and our hearts were burned. I wish my children were hungry in Hatay, our MP. Y. And he might feel a little sorry for himself, and it's not a very honorable job to stand by and watch. Merve Rydhar, 25, a social studies teacher, committed suicide out of unemployment, and it's not a very honorable job to stand by. Ismail Revolution is a 45-year-old father who committed suicide because he couldn't buy his child pants, and it's not very honorable to stand by.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0548par0139	False news, false news.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0547par0140	Congressmans, please, please...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0545par0141	Just two days ago, at the age of 45, it is not very honorable to stand by and watch our citizen die by hanging himself on the bridge.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0547par0143	Complete your words, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0549par0144	You're giving false information.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0545par0145	You're a Samsun MP, you should be more upset.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0549par0147	On the other hand, it says "Haydar's head."
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0545par0148	If it's a lie, yes, I was wrong about one thing: I said the president's salary was 30 times the minimum wage, thank Mr. Naci Bostanci, he fixed me; Mr. Naci Bostancı said 35 times the salary, thank you very much. And that's not a lie, Halis Dalkilic. If you continue with your slanders, we have an answer for you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0550par0150	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0551par0151	Excuse me, Mr. Dalkulic, just a minute...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0550par0152	Mr. President is picking on me by calling my name directly.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0551par0153	What did he say and pick on you?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0550par0154	Aylan accuses the baby of not being sad, he speaks of dishonor.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0552par0155	You didn't talk about the Aylan baby.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0553par0156	I told you about the baby because I was talking about the Department of Immigration.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0552par0157	Sir, I'm glad you mentioned it, and thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0554par0158	Aylan accused me of not feeling sorry for the baby, talking about dishonor.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0555par0159	If you'll excuse me, Mr. Group Vice President will speak first.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0552par0160	I wish you'd told me about the people who died in Turkey, about the starving suicides, and I said you should be ashamed of them, so what's the big deal?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0555par0162	Mr. Özkan, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0556par0165	Mr. President, it's the 6th day of the budget talks, of course. Many issues have been discussed for six days, and all of the issues discussed are being discussed through our nation's tourism. What did you say about the six-day negotiations? What did I say? It's not like we're going to rethink them and see them from beginning to end.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0552par0166	We're not. He's lying.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0556par0167	However, Mr. Dalkuluc has just made many assessments of the political arena and the political status quo. Politics isn't just about the roof of Parliament. In this understanding, Mr. Dalkulic made a general assessment of the national interests of Turkey's struggle to become regional and global power on the one hand, as Necip Fazıl Shortfurek said, water, history, people and ideas double; light flows from one, dirt from another. Oh, we think it's wrong to go from that to that, that dirty politics belongs to us.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0552par0168	It belongs to you, it belongs to you. Why should it belong to us?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0556par0169	With everyone's general understanding, we have presented the understanding, the assessment to the public in Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0552par0171	Mr. President, it's too short, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0557par0172	Mr. Altay, excuse me. First, I promise Mr. Halis Dalklıç without teasing him.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0552par0174	Mr. President, you promised me to pick on you. Did you ask me what I said?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0557par0175	I asked him, he told me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0552par0176	Are you convinced?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0557par0177	Here you are, Mr. Dalkilic.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0558par0180	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I told you at the beginning of my speech. I don't feel responsible and morally responsible for speaking as if I were the spokesman for Turkey's great fight on health infrastructure and healthcare.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0557par0181	Mr. Dalkülic, please proceed without further ado.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0558par0182	No, sir, we're not picking on you. Two, in Turkey's struggle in the Eastern Mediterranean, in its struggle in Cyprus, in its struggle all over the world, I said, unfortunately, you are referring to a form of opposition that is alienated to the values of the country. So we suggest that you make peace with the values of this nation. What we're saying is very clear. It is as if the CHP does not know what it means to oppose the AK PARTY as opposition to Turkey. Look, there is opposition to the EC PARTY, when Turkey is opposed to unity and unity, it's called treason everywhere. So while we're giving the message of unity and unity, I'd like to ask the people who are doing Aylan baby literature, who are doing literature about medics, we'll tell them about Adana Sahara Hospital, and in the name of health, do you have anything more to offer than just to open a new deck of cards? I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0559par0186	Here you go, Mr. Yasar.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0560par0187	Mr. President, I told you about the Aylan baby, and I'm sorry to hear it here. I mean, a little baby...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0559par0188	No, he didn't pick on you, I know. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0561par0190	That we're enemies of Turkey, that we're cooperating with Turkey's enemies, etcetera, that's bullying, isn't it, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0559par0191	Don't be coy.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0561par0192	Do I need to transfer all of his speech to you?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0559par0193	No, don't tease me, I didn't say anything. It's all in my memory, it's all teasing. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0562par0198	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you and the General Assembly. The EC PARTY has this psychology, which is announced to lawmakers who do not belong to the EC PARTY. If you're against the AK PARTY, you're a certain terrorist. I told him yesterday, but Dalkic didn't understand. If you criticize the AK PARTY, you're cooperating with Turkey's enemies, and if you don't vote for the EC PARTY, you're a separatist, and if you don't like the EC PARTY, you're a traitor. Simple as that, simple as that.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0563par0201	He didn't say that, he didn't say that.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0562par0202	He didn't say that. He didn't say that. So much for not being afraid of God, not being ashamed of him.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0564par0203	You were saying it's forbidden to vote for the AK PARTY. You cursed the teachers for voting.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0562par0204	Now, look, today a citizen in Sivas is having trouble making a living...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0565par0205	Demagoji again.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0562par0206	What, and say we not that there is a shortage of livelihood in this land? [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] In Sivas, a citizen today -- this news from a newspaper close to you -- is attempting to commit suicide because of his livelihood, dear friends. Our hero cop goes, first convinces the citizen -- thank our cops, by the way -- but then what happens, you know what happens, what happens? The same citizen, Mr. Secretary, is being charged $3,150 for breaking the curfew. It happened today, it happened in Sivas. So I don't understand why you're laughing, do you have no conscience? People are starving to death. Praise Mr. Recep, say hello to Mr. Recep, but...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0566par0209	That's a lie.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0567par0210	That's a lie.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0562par0211	The lie is: The reason for the $239 billion budget deficit is the fight against Covid.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0567par0212	Yes, we did.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0568par0213	We did, and he's telling the truth.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0569par0215	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0570par0216	He did. I swear to God, the government's support for the fight against Covid was only 8 billion from the government's pouch, the vault, the direct treasure.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0571par0219	It happened after IBAN.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0570par0220	That's 2 billion from IBAN. The rest is 267 billion credits, loans. The government paid for the unemployment fund. You can't say, it's the workers' money; it's 40 billion.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0572par0221	Where was he going to give it to me? Then why did he do it?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0570par0222	He's postponed his S.E.K. bonuses. Look, he's postponed it. 40 billion, tax-delayed 29 billion, credit-card debt delayed, credit delayed 122 billion, and then he tells people...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0573par0223	So they did.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0572par0224	Yeah, is that wrong?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0570par0225	Pasha, what's wrong is that we've spent 494 billion dollars on Covid. You can't say, where is 494 billion? You're postponing the guy's loan; it's called a lie. By the way, between January 1st and October 31st...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0574par0227	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0575par0228	Faizi dad is waiting, Faizi dad.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0570par0229	I finished it right away, so you don't have to open it. You open the Minister, but you don't open us. We'll stay here, we'll stay here, we'll stay here, we'll stay here.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0576par0231	But... but the Minister is doing a lot of work, and you're not doing anything.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0570par0232	One trillion...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0577par0233	Faizi Dad will talk, come on!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0578par0234	Faizi dad's gonna go talk to him.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0570par0235	I'll announce that number to everyone, and if you shut up, I'll come down. One trillion 891 billion 790 million dollars, the government that collects revenues...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0579par0238	Guys, don't shout, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0570par0239	For Covid of 1 trillion 891 billion, he only gave his citizen 6 billion. Shame on you! Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0580par0241	You just said 8 billion.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0570par0242	It's real, it's all here. There's more, there's more.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0580par0243	Mr. Engin, you just said 8 billion.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0581par0244	Dear lawmakers, Mr. Group Vice Presidents, this has no end. If I were to promise not to tease after Mr. Altay's speech, Madam Serap Yaşar, Mr. Fuat Koktaş, I must continue, like a machine gun.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0582par0245	Now I'm going to ask for a promise.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0583par0246	I'd like that, too, according to 60. If you give it to him, I'll want it too.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0581par0247	Mr. Altay, I have plenty of time, no problem; I'm comfortable here.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0583par0248	I've got plenty.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0584par0249	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0581par0250	Mr. Özkan, what is this about?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0584par0251	Mr. President, don't you have any conscience? He said, I'll make a statement about him...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0581par0252	Yeah, he asked a question. Here, here, here.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0584par0256	Yes, Mr. President, if you see the fate of the nation as your own, if you follow the course of the nation, if it passes through your conscience, then you represent the nation's budget, the will of the nation. THE conscience of the EC PARTY is the conscience of the people. (AC PARTY) In this sense -- let's see -- the 19th AK PARTY government budget has been fully graded by the nation, and it's in the conscience of the nation, and on this occasion, it's going to go on and on. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0581par0258	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0585par0259	I demand word according to 60.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0581par0260	I'll give you my word for a minute according to 60.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0586par0261	I didn't, sir, I didn't.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0581par0262	According to 60, Mr. Ozkan did. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0587par0265	People's conscience, people's hearts, people's values, if it's up to you, these people are burned. That's why I'm telling you, Mr. President, in this country, with 590,000 people's natural gas out, 123,000 households out of power, just to give Tunus 5 million American dollars to the lhvan brotherhood?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0588par0267	That's what great governments do.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0587par0268	They'll do it. Where is it to take over Somalia's IMF debts? There's a nice saying: You can't hand out a handout through a window when you've got a debtor on the door.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0589par0269	Great government, great state!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0587par0270	Where do you fit that into everyone's conscience? (CHP rows) I'm going to say this to the ambulance driver in addition to a month's extra performance, $7.00, not $7,000, not $70, but what is the government's place in this nation's conscience?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0590par0271	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0587par0272	How can you accept that?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0591par0273	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0590par0274	Now, excuse me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0591par0275	Mr. President, for the record...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0590par0276	No, no, there's no end to this, Mr. Ozkan.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0591par0277	For the record, we've submitted a $3 trillion hydrocarbon deal to the public... with the deal we made with Libya.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0590par0278	Mr. Home Secretary has a request for a word at his place. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0592par0281	He expressed a suicide attempt on Mr. Engin Altay Sivas, and then he was convinced, which I will explain in detail why his suicide attempt was attempted, and look, there is an explanation of our Sivas Security Directorate -- you may have escaped -- and there is a very clear explanation for our organization's existence, as well as that of a citizen who is desperate for the right to live by his own hand, and that is not the reason for the existence of our organization, after the decision of the Council of Ilsisisisishihha was persuaded to impose a fine on him. Now, I say, Mr. Altay, look, there's a Gergerlioglu in this House.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0593par0282	What do you mean someone, he's a congressman?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0594par0283	Gergerlioglu is a substitute, not someone. There's a congressman named Gergerlioglu.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0592par0284	Yeah, yeah. He resorts to such lies and degenerations a lot. Please, I mean, about this kind of degeneration, please, you have experience...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0595par0286	That's why the paper is in your paper...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0592par0287	Look, this isn't supposed to be the place where the newspapers are spoken, and you know it best. What we're talking about is a person's life. Every person's suicide upsets all of us, but it happens in the world, and it happens in Turkey, unfortunately. And I'll tell you something else: we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't tell the reasons for these suicides, even though they're in these papers. However, there are so many who take advantage of it... that what you are, we all have families, and bad things can happen to all of us, but let's not leave the legacy of bad deeds, bad deeds, on their backs for the rest of our lives, for the sake of God. Look, I'm begging you, I'm begging you. Look -- one more sentence -- the same thing happens in women's murders. Believe me, as a family member, I say, as a father of a daughter, we face such things that I put both hands between my legs and say, "What am I going to say?" But the abusers are so cruelly abused, we're getting there. They're forcing us to officially explain to the public what's going on. Let's stop politics here, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0595par0289	Let's cut it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0592par0290	I'm asking you for help, and I'm asking the House for help, and let's all fight against the abusers together, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0596par0292	Thank you, Minister.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0595par0293	Mr. President, it's too short.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0596par0294	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0595par0296	Mr. Secretary, I never find politics right over people's livelihoods. What I'm talking about here is that it's so close to you, to praise you every day, and because it's taken from a broadcast organ that swears at us every day, and even from more than once, what's more natural than me bringing it up when you're here?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0597par0297	What did you ask and not say?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0595par0298	But I'm asking.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0597par0299	Okay, what did you ask and not say?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0595par0300	Okay, so I'm asking you, it's fined, that's the news. That's a shame. You're saying it's not cut off now.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0597par0301	Mr. Engin, tell your conscience...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0595par0302	Brother, it can be done.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0597par0303	We don't share the most private affairs with anyone, for God's sake.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0595par0304	Okay, but it's right here, I have to ask, for God's sake!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0598par0305	Yes, Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0599par0307	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, we weren't going to take the words, the ruling group wasn't picking on us, but the Home Secretary was aiming at our party from morning on -- I mean, he had a finger shake -- and now there's a man named Mr. Omar Faruk Gergerliogluna. He said, "We reject this language, there's no way we can accept this language."
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0598par0310	Guys, excuse me, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0599par0311	Omar Faruk Gergerlioğlu... Why are you guys yelling?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0598par0313	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0599par0314	What are you yelling about? Do you know what you're really yelling about? If I told any of the MPs here there was a man by that name, would you accept it? It's okay if you do. I resent it. (AK PARTY didn't say "Adam") One of them is also. I resent that attitude and the word, and we don't accept it. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Let me tell you something to the Home Secretary that today the Home Secretary is doing what they would have done if the July 15 coup had actually succeeded. He was going to do a coup, he's doing a coup with trustees, and he's clearly doing a coup, and he's telling us a lot about trustees -- he's telling us a lot in the morning, and I'm not going to go into detail -- and he's trying to clear that up. Now, what's he saying? If someone's going to be threatened, he goes on stage immediately as the minister in charge of threats; he threatens the barmen, threatens the women, comes out, and that's not enough to threaten the president of the AYM, he does it wherever there's a job, wherever there's a threat minister. In the matter of injustice and lawlessness, we're giving him one, giving him questions, proving it. We've shown pictures of Rojbin Cetin, here for days, of dog torture. Still no arrests, no arrests. Well, we'll tell you more about Servet Turgut, many more...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0600par0319	Compound your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0599par0320	I'm picking it up. Now, we face horror of murder and its possession of torture, and we don't accept that language.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0601par0322	We don't accept your language either.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0599par0323	We know very well that the acquittal of murders and torture, the adoption of the Minister in this regard, has encouraged new murders.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0602par0324	But now you've made a mockery of me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0599par0325	Gergerlioglu... I'm teasing you. I'm not kidding, I'm telling the truth.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0602par0326	Mr. Gergerlioğlu, the Minister of Justice of Justice said a harsher word about the matter and you didn't answer.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0599par0327	I mean, if there's going to be a statue of lawlessness, injustice, then it's probably Solomon Noble.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0603par0329	No way!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0604par0330	Get out, get out, get out!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0605par0331	We don't even have to answer.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0606par0332	No need, no need.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0607par0333	Guys, excuse me. 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Health Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account CIRKEY MEDICINE AND TIBI TERRIBLE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices' Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Board Final Account for Central Management in 2019 THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITUTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The Interior Ministry's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) Police General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account JANDARMA GENIAL COMMUNITY [[Continue]] 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Gendarme General Command 2019 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Coast Guard Command 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Central Management Budget for 2021 2) General Directorate of Migration Administration 2019 Central Management Final Account E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister for Disaster and Emergency Management 2019 Central Management Final Account Yes, we're going to talk on behalf of the individuals. Mr. Feyzi Berdibekin, the first word in favour. Here you go. [[From the AK PARTY, the voices, the applause; the applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Feyzi, I've never seen such a high ranking MP.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0608par0383	He must have sent honey to all of us.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0609par0384	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself in favor of the 2021 Budget Law Proposal's talks. I salute and salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] On this occasion, I also celebrate Earth's Bingöller Day, which began to be celebrated on 12/12/2012.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0610par0388	Guys, if you guys clap all over the place, I'm not gonna hear anything.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0609par0389	I'd like to thank Mr. Cevdet Yilmaz and the members of our Plan Budget Commission, who have been involved in preparing this budget. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Our country has been exposed to a wave of migration by civil wars, disturbances, and acts of terror across our borders. And financial attacks on our country are another aspect of the job. On the other hand, Covid-19 is left with problems such as pandemics and natural disasters. With the decisive and courageous leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan (AK PARTI), we have been able to overcome these problems and continue to come as one punch in unity and unity, from security to diplomacy, health to transport, education to national defence. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] In the 18th year of our power, we take steps to expand our economy and national income and reduce external dependence in all areas. We are approaching the goals of Turkey, which are strong and large on the field and at the table in defence industry, energy, national security and foreign policy. We fight against terrorism with our local and national defence industry at 70 percent, with our drones, with our SIHA. With terrorism at a minimum level in our region, cross-country tourism, ski tourism, mountain tourism are rapidly developing. On this occasion, we would like to thank our Minister of the Interior, Mr. Süleyman Noble. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] We live in an earthquake zone geography. The province of Bingöl is located at the junction of the North Anatolian fault and the East Anatolian Fay Line. The year 2020 was a year of earthquakes, great floods, landslides and epidemics.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0611par0397	Guys, there's a lot of buzzing, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0609par0398	Eighteen years ago, on May 1, 2003, 3:27 a.m., an earthquake of the size of 6.4. Eight o'clock in the morning. At the time, our current Prime Minister, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and our late Minister of Public Works, Zeki Ergezen. At about 8:00 p.m., we went to Bingley, where the state was concerned about what to do with our citizens. (ARK PARTI) Then, at 5:24 a.m. on June 14, 2020, our provinces, Kiğı, Yayladere, and Adak, were affected by the 5.8-sized earthquake in the village of Kaynarpınar, the central town of Karliova. On 14 June 2020, our Vice President, Mr. Fuat Oktay, our Interior Minister Mr. Süleyman Soylu, Minister of Environment and Urbanism Mr. Murat Kurum and Minister of Plan and Budget Commission Mr. Cevdet Yilmaz Bey and I arrived at the scene very quickly, within five hours. Our government has carried out every kind of work and operation that is to be done in an admirable way. Up until now, there have been 7.209 dwellings in Bingol, and nearly 6,000 dwellings built and will continue to be built by the method of aiding the builder of his home. Our government has quickly wrapped up the wounds in natural disasters in Van, Elazig, Malatya, Manisa, Erzurum, İzmir, Antalya, Adıyaman, and the Black Sea. I hereby thank all our institutions and organizations, our AFAD, our Redbeard, our NGOs. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been successfully carried out by Turkey's Regional Strategy Plan, which aims at 2053 years to achieve Turkey's development and growth goals, which is inclusive, habitable, innovative, competitive, resistant to climate change and catastrophes, a sustainable country location, its vision. Minister of Environment and Urbanism, Mr. Murat Kurum. I wish you all the best in your work.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0612par0401	Bravo, Faizi Baba, bravo!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0613par0402	Bravo, Faizi Baba!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0614par0403	Bravo, Faizi Baba!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0615par0404	In the pandemic process, we congratulate and congratulate our health workers, especially Mr. Fahrettin Husband, for their selfless work. (ARK PARTY APPLAUSE) During this time, we kindly remember our health workers and citizens, who had received the mercy of Hakk. We offer our condolences to their relatives. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been granted distance, mask, cleaning in the Covid-19 process, and we're going to get the vaccine.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0616par0406	The tradesman of Bingley are miserable, miserable!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0615par0407	I'd also like to talk to our citizens about the Bingol honey that I think will cure.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0617par0410	Bravo, Faizi Baba, bravo!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0618par0411	Bravo, Faizi Baba!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0619par0412	Bravo, Faizi Baba!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0617par0414	Mr. President, one more minute...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0620par0415	Guys, let me be the judge of that. Have you seen honey? I didn't see it. [[Laughing, clapping from the AK PARTY rows]] Here you are, Mr Berdibek.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0621par0418	He was among the world's most influential and prestigious organizations, the Apimondia International Beekeeping Congress, where he was 120 countries and one of the 600 contestants, the world's second and the world's second. Grown in high altitudes, the ceven grass, clover, trigular, thyme plants add flavor to the famous honey of our Bingol. In addition, it has been determined that our bees receive honey from a thousand kinds of flowers. I wish our honey makers a blessed year next season. As I end my words, I wish the budget of 2021 was a blessing, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0622par0421	Bravo, Faizi Baba, bravo!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0623par0422	Bravo, Faizi Baba!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0624par0423	Bravo, Faizi Baba!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0625par0424	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we will now begin our talks on behalf of the administration. The first word for the executive is for Mr. Fahrettin Koca. Mr. Husband, your time is 25 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Husband.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0626par0429	Mr. President, I stand before you on behalf of the esteemed lawmakers, the budget of the Ministry of Health for 2021 and the final account of 2019 under the Central Management Budget Bill of 2021. Thank you for your concern and kindness, and I salute you all on behalf of myself and my Ministry. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] First, Mr. Hayati Arakcuoğlu, Mr. Ali Muhittin Taşdoğan, Mr. Habip Abak, Mr. Semra Güzel, Mr. Cavit Arı, Mr. Burhanettin Bulp, Mr. Murat Emir, Mr. Fikret Şahin, Bayram Yilmakaya, Mr. Ali Şal, Mr. Arife Polot Süçük, Mr. Mustafa Evnin, Mr. Avni, Mr. Avni, Mr. Avni, Mr. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] On the 100th anniversary of the Ministry of Health, and on the eve of the Year of Health Workers, which has been accepted by the World Health Organization General Assembly, I will provide information on the activities carried out by our ministry's central and rural services and services from 2020. As a ministry, our priority is protective health care for the community. We aim to improve the health of our people, far from all other concerns. In the event of an emergency, we are also eager to complete services, such as reaching the patient on time, improving the needed number of beds and qualities, expanding the equipment park, and promoting home health care. While universities and private investors are involved in conducting health services in Turkey, much of the service is run by our Ministry's organization. In total, we serve with nearly 700,000 health workers in more than 14,000 health care institutions - 934 (a hospital), 8,000 (a family health centre). We know that in comparison to many countries, we have very limited resources for health care. Our health expenditures are below the developed countries, but are the most comprehensive health care providers, according to the share in GDP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We are determined to make a sustainable health system permanent. However, we are at the top of countries that are making the most progress in terms of the results compared to resource use. Life expectancy of birth has risen to 78.6, while the birth rate of birth has dropped to 13.1,1, and the baby's rate of death has dropped to 6.7. From 17.3 per cent to 16.7 per cent of the pocket spent directly on our citizens. A significant increase in health satisfaction has been achieved. Mr. President, we all know how easy it is to have access to health care in Turkey. New tools, new service models and new technologies -- including communication, IT and Telemedicine -- are transforming the form of this access. Our primary health network, reinforced by labs and filiration teams, has been able to work integrated with our hospitals through advanced IT infrastructure. The entire process has been followed from unsub contact to isolation, early diagnosis to treatment, from HES code to risk maps. Our health care for mothers and children continues to increase, with the practice of visiting mothers, mother-friendly hospitals, gestationary schools over 400, and more than 1,000 gestationary information classes, some of them. Now 98 percent of our mother candidates give birth in our hospitals. We're doing iron and vitamin B supplements, newborn scans, where our babies can start their life in the most healthy way. We're among the countries that are implementing the largest immune program with 13 antigens under the extended Immunization Program. In more than 24,000 units, we serve as family physicians and family health workers to protect and improve the health of our citizens at more than 8,000 points across the country. We're trying to bring health centers, community health centers, and basic health care to the top. Despite the fact that we've caught the trend of landing with our determined policy of fighting tobacco, we're not at the desired level. The control failures during the Pandemic period have also been effective. Our number of non-smoking clinics has reached 721. So far, 1 million 172,000 citizens have taken advantage of our free drugs. ALO 191 We continue with our Anti-Drug Advice and Support Line. The number of treatment centres has reached 129. We have implemented the National Strategy Document and Action Plan to Fight Behavioral Dependencies. In the first nine months of 2020, we had about 3 million of our citizens do cancer scans, depending on the concentration of Covid-19. We serve our temporary protected guests in our country with 791 medical teams at 175 immigration health centers in 29 counties. Our ministry, as a team and equipment, is ready for disaster and emergencies and serves in the world standards. In the year 2020, we provided emergency first aid in our ambulances to nearly 5.5 million citizens. We're interfering with cases that our standard ambulances can't reach with motorcycle teams. So far, we've had 23,000 in our marine boat ambulances, 49,000 in our air ambulances. We were in Mogadishu, who was subjected to a terrorist attack with our IMKE teams. We were in Beirut after the big explosion. This year's cataclysms were the first to arrive at the field, in the earthquake of Elazıg Dzizce, in Malatya, in Izmir Segihisar. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we're working together with all concerned partners in our country to provide qualified health care. We've completed 3,605 medical facilities in the last 18 years. Six hundred and eight hundred and seventy-eight of these facilities are hospitals, 386, additional buildings, and 102 are mouth and dental centers. We opened our emergency hospital with two 1,008 beds on İstanbul's Anatolian and Europe's coasts very quickly. We planned these hospitals to be used after the pandemic. Next year, we will be able to complete 273 health facilities, including 54 of them in the hospital, and gain an additional 13.995 qualified beds. We plan to complete the 347 hospitals and ADSM building by 2023. In the last three years, we've had 13 city hospitals with 17509 beds meet our citizens who have raised quality standards in health care. (EC PARTY Applause) I see there's a need again, especially since I've told you so many times from this podium about city hospitals. Again, the allegations that the city hospitals are guaranteed patients are unrealistic. There are no guarantees in the emergency services or in the clinics, not in the patient, not in the surgery, not in the fullness of the bed. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] On the other hand, we continue to service our city hospitals, which we have made with our general budget resources. In this scope, the tenders of our three city hospitals -- Samsun, Aydın, Tripoli -- are completed from the general budget and are under construction. In addition, 1,750-bed Şanlıurfa, each of them with 1,000 beds, Denizli, Sakarya, Diyarbakir, Antalya, Rize and 750-bed Mardin city hospitals in order to open the tenders before 2023. (AK PARTI) In addition, in our Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions, which were said not to have been invested, apart from Diyarbakır, Şanlıurfa and Mardin city hospitals, Batmana 500 beds, Bingöle 500 beds, Kars have 500 beds...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0627par0445	No, Mr. Secretary, it hasn't been done yet. We're waiting.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0628par0446	It's not done yet, it's gone.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0626par0447	Wait. Our hospitals will be completed by 2023, with 500 beds, and 500 beds to Siirt, and 500 to Şırnak. The total number of hospitals under construction and projects will be 13.725 in this area. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We've reached an ambitious level of organ transplant from the cadaver. The number of voluntary donors has reached 600,000, campaigning for incentives from the live donor. We've reached 700,000 volunteers at our National Bone marrow Bank, ENGLISH. So far, we've transplanted 2,314 patients. Our rate of meeting the stem cells of transplanted patients in our country has reached 88 percent. In our hospitals in Sudan, Somalia, Niger, and Bangladesh, we continue to serve with a total of 494 beds. In Palestine and Kyrgyztan, our hospitals are ready to serve, and we open in 2021. The E-Pulse, which integrated all of our country's health institutions through their information systems, created the infrastructure of the digital systems that we built during the pandemic period. According to internationally accepted criteria, our HEMSS level 6 hospitals have reached 177, and our top level of seven hospitals have reached three. After the United States of America, we became the largest digital hospital in the world. Established in 2014, Turkey's Health Institutes President, TUSEB, has been called for projects in seven different areas this year, which aim to develop strategic importance, vaccines, medicines, medical devices and diagnostic kits, and 42 projects have been supported. Clinical studies of Covid-19 vaccine candidates successfully completed the pre-clinical phase are continuing to be supported through the Centre for Clinical Research established within TUSEB. The first national biobank and omic center of our country is established within the St. Sancar Research Center, based on TUSEB. Our Turkish Institute for Medicine and Medical Devices performs a very important task in the health of society by allowing society to achieve quality, effective and safe products. Our institution has become an internationally recognised authority, whose licenses have been valid in the world by accepting memberships in the International Integration Council and the International Drug Control Union this year. Standardisation successfully conducts licensing and audit activities. The drug tracking system, which has been in use for the past ten years, follows the safety chain of drugs from the manufacturer to the user. Again, with the only single product tracking system in the world, the infrastructure has been established to monitor medical equipment and cosmetic products in the most comprehensive way. Our country has taken significant steps in medicine, 88 ▪ of every 100 boxes consumed in the past year were produced in our country. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, we've had a busy time fighting for disease in our country. All patients, test positives and contacts have been monitored centrally in the Public Health Management System. There's been a risk-responsive pursuit of people and areas with the code HES and the life Eve Fitting mobile app. The postponement of elective cases in hospitals, the declaration of pandemic hospitals, the insulation of positive cases, the isolation and restraint measures, the constraints of the old and young population, travel bans and restrictions, the transfer of schools and universities to remote education, the cancellation of public spaces and activities, has been implemented in almost every aspect of life. In this period, in particular, at a lock point developed for Turkey, there were 20 available kits on the World Health Organization website, one of which was produced in Turkey. All countries of the United Nations have been able to reach this kit without asking for any certificates. During this period, the increased production capacity of protective materials such as masks and jumpsuits, the production of respirators, has enabled local production of some medications used in treatment. I've been told by a friend here, specifically, about the kit, that if they're here, I want to see their eyes and face.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0629par0457	I'm here.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0626par0458	I said it in the Plan and Budget Commission, and now I have to repeat it here. We started buying from abroad at $8.75 a kit, and in the early years -- I'm talking about the kit that the World Health Organization approved -- we domesticated this kit. When we localized this kit, it cost $32, so we started buying it at $3.75. We took it from abroad at $8.75 and bought it at $32 when we domesticated it. After a month or two, there were new licenses, matching companies. So we asked these companies how much they're going to give us this kit for, and no one's given us this kit for less than $8. And then it came to a total of 12 domestic kits that were produced at the time of the production of 12 kits, and we were auctioned off, and six companies went into the tender. Do you know what the price of these six firms went down to when they went into the tender? For $9.8. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] So 9.8 lira was actually the value of this kit? No, it wasn't because two companies fought. In terms of closing the market abroad, companies competed with each other because there is no way to sell abroad without selling in the country. It's down to $9.8 at the cost. After this kit that went down to $9.8 -- I'm talking about the 1.7 million kit that we bought earlier -- because it was the same company -- you're going to charge $9.8 million for $1.7 million that was bought from the start. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] But don't run away. Wait.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0630par0463	I'm here, Mr. Secretary. I'll answer on the line.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0626par0464	Okay, wait a minute. In the meantime, is it appropriate for the public to withdraw it for $9.8? That's what I did. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) It was said to 83 million people on this bench: "We brought up this kit, and after we brought it up, you did the reverse transaction. I ask, do you? That's what you call it, isn't it?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0631par0467	What he said was a lie.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0626par0468	Wait a minute, I'm reading here... wait a minute, please...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0632par0469	Friends, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Secretary is answering.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0626par0470	I'm calling 83 million, and I'm telling you, this bill, when is it due? July 16th. See? And how many days after this tender? It was between July 1 and July 8th, and it was cut off in 16th. Well, I'm reading your statement, and on social media, all of our citizens have access to the claim that local Covid-19 test kits were sold to the Ministry four months apart by six times the price. We hear the nine-dollar kit was taken for nine dollars, at about 60 lira on that time of year's courtship, the Fahrettin Husband. If that's true, the state may have nearly 100 million liras of damage. Your writing on social media, and the newspaper below. When? I'm calling the date, August 19th. When did you say that after this bill? A month after this bill. How will you explain it to 83 million citizens? Why don't we investigate when we're claiming something? Because you're saying one word for 83 million.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0633par0471	The wind of lies...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0626par0472	I'm gonna say one more thing. What did you just say? You said: "Your new friend created the company in the past and served here, didn't you?" The whole nation, 83 million. You just said it. Well, I'm telling you now: E-Pabus was made by Turkish TELEKOM in April 2015. (EA/DG) After that, the services are being served by TÜRKSAT, as well as by September 2016, and are being tried to improve. So it's the first time the e- pulse has been established in 2015. Since this date, 2015, is there an invoice where you can show 1 lira of shopping? (EC PARTY Applause) I repeat: Has a 1-dollar purchase on the E-Naps system since 2015 been done by any company in this sense? Do you have anything to say to these people? It's a shame, isn't it? [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Look, we're in a pandemic phase. We have to be together, one with 83 million. A person has no right to stay out of this fight. I'm not here to embarrass anyone at this time, but we have to make this fight work together. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In addition, 159 countries received protective supplies and exports as part of humanitarian aid. In April, there was a slight amount of control, but relatively controlled, due to measures that showed a significant increase in infection speed. In addition to social mobility reduction measures, our increasing test capacity and the effect of the isolation measures that we've been implementing by conducting widespread contact surveillance. We have taken important steps to assess local facilities, to stimulate local dynamics, to provide national support for our health care services, as well as to increase the support of our governors, municipalities. And in this period, especially on the World Health Organization website, he reported only Turkey's success in the pandemic era as a model country. The World Health Organization website -- open to all of you -- has not published any reports from any country in Europe, nor has there been a country outside of Turkey where it speaks of its success.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0634par0479	You sent over the Covid reports?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0626par0480	Past the World Health Organization, the European Union's progress report has been published. Turkey's success in fighting the healthcare system and Covid-19 ▪ was also explained, noting that social security allowed free testing, treatment, and medicine.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0635par0483	Let's do it again, if you like.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0634par0484	That's not true, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0636par0485	Guys, excuse me. Mr. Secretary, finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0637par0487	I'm talking about the health system in Turkey, please listen to me, please listen to me. Just believe in the power of the health system in Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0636par0490	Guys, slow down.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0637par0491	I'm just talking about the number of adult intensive care beds in our public hospitals during the pandemic period -- look, I'm talking about adult intensive care; general, child, not including newborn -- when I was 12,009 -- I'm talking about the period when the pandemic started -- up to this time, the number of intensive care in nine months has increased to 20,248.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0638par0493	It's full, it's full, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0636par0494	Mr. Hawk, please...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0638par0495	It's loaded.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0639par0496	So in the history of the Ministry of Health, 12,000 intensive care beds have been added to 8,000 or so beds in just nine months and up to 20,000. The number of intensive care beds has increased by 70 percent.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0638par0498	Mr. Secretary, half in private hospitals, half in private hospitals. There's no room in the public.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0639par0499	No, it's public. Look, these public hospitals, I'm talking about public hospitals. Moving on...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0638par0501	There's no room in the public, there's no room in the ICU right now, the number's here.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0639par0502	I'm sorry, we'll figure it all out, God willing.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0640par0504	Guys, excuse me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0639par0505	I'm showing another painting, I'm showing another painting. I'm talking about the number of intensive care beds available to 100,000 people; be proud of Turkey, be proud of it.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0641par0507	Look, over here.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0639par0508	The number of ICU beds, January 2020; the number of beds for 100,000? 28.1 of Turkey. How much is Germany? 29.2. How much is America? 29.4. As for December 2020, be proud of Turkey; we have become the largest number of intensive care beds in the world. You see this? It went up to 40.3, 40.3.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0642par0511	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0643par0513	Minister, what country has the most cases in Europe now?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0642par0514	Guys, excuse me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0644par0515	They're enemies of Turkey, Minister.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0645par0516	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0642par0517	Excuse me, dear God!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0646par0518	In what country are the most cases in Europe, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0647par0519	No country or health system in the world can increase the number of intensive care in adapting so quickly.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0642par0520	Minister, your time has been completed, I've given you an extension.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0647par0521	Mr. President, it's not over.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0642par0522	That's right, but there's nothing to do. I'm going to extend it one last time, and I'm not going to extend it anymore.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0647par0523	Oh, boy!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0648par0524	Minister, what is the country with the largest number of cases in Europe?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0647par0525	Meanwhile, we've increased our test capacity to over 200,000 tests a day.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0648par0526	In what country are the most cases in Europe, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0647par0527	We've mobilized local facilities and raised our filament teams to 16,000 in this period. And what you see is that we, including the summertime, have never reduced our number of filament crews, up to 16,000.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0648par0528	In what country are the most cases in Europe, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0647par0529	There's no health care system in the world that serves this way that intensively. In addition, we have increased our test capacity -- 200,000 a day -- to 20 million a day.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0648par0530	In what country are the most cases in Europe, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0649par0531	Mr. Secretary, look, this painting shows your situation.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0647par0532	You know the vaccine studies, which we know will provide a more effective protection, are being conducted in many countries.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0648par0533	In what country are the most cases in Europe, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0647par0534	In parallel with the world, 16 vaccine studies are conducted in our country. One of them successfully completed the pre-med period and began human trials. Phase 2 will begin on December 25th. Production for phase two started three days ago. Aside from our own vaccine studies, we're trying to reach vaccines that have proven impact and security in the world as soon as possible. And I hope we'll have our local vaccine successfully in April. Regardless of the economic burden, we have worked hard to provide alternative vaccines, starting with the easiest and most common vaccines in our country's terms, whose credibility and impact have been proven. At the point where we arrived, we signed our contract to provide the traditionally inactive virus vaccine that has been made since we were kids, and I shared with the public that we were waiting for the vaccine to be delivered. The long-term credibility of the production technology of this vaccine is known. We have logistical resources and widespread implementation of such vaccines ready to be stored and distributed.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0650par0537	Thank you, Minister. I'll open for a moment of hailing, just to say hello, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0651par0540	Mr. Secretary, the World Health Organization has removed the hydroxyclokini from treatment, and they're still treating it as treatment.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0652par0541	I guess I don't have to tell you what kind of effort our normally highly responsible employees made during the pandemic period, what kind of burden they're shouldering. I have nothing to say in the face of the frequent abuse of these employees who have passed through their own health for the health of their patients, without their homes, spouses, children. But let me also say to those who have this attitude, no matter how much you cross the line, no matter how much you hurt your social conscience, the health workers will still be working for your health. Being a medic requires sacrifice, and his responsibility is that heavy.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0653par0543	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0654par0544	Mr. Demirtaş, please... but you're yelling at each other from where you're sitting.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0655par0545	Call it occupational illness. Consider it a casualty of duty.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0656par0546	In particular, on 15 April 2020, the law regulation adopted by all parties in parliament increased the efficiency of fighting violence in health. I'd like to thank all of our representatives who have worked so hard on this occasion.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0654par0547	Mr. Secretary, greeting... your time is up.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0656par0548	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to tell you about our health workers. Today, we are fighting a war of salvation, a war to rid ourselves of an epidemic that threatens all mankind.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0654par0550	Minister, thank you very much.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0656par0551	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0654par0553	It's not over, Minister, it's not over, it's not over. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. I'm not going to break it. I'm going to continue until I'm done with the intense demand. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0657par0556	In a national campaign, every citizen is doing his part, but this time it's our health army at the front. Only the living know the determination, determination, sacrifice of our fighting health army on the front. This is the state of mind of your ancestors who love their nation more than their lives.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0658par0558	Occupational illness must be accepted, Minister. Why don't you let them be martyrs? He should be considered a martyr, Minister.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0657par0560	It's a very heavy human burden to keep away from your loved ones for weeks, not to hug their children, not to ask your mother and father's name on the phone. To do so, to restore the health of those he has never known, to risk his own life is equal to war in the line of fire. They're not fighting in the trenches, they're fighting in the square. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have infected nearly 130,000 of our employees in this square so far.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0659par0562	Give him his due, give him his due, give him his right!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0657par0563	We've all been touched by the deaths caused by the plague. Each of our households has suffered the pain of one of our own. On this occasion, I offer God's mercy to all our dead citizens and to their relatives and to our nation. Professor Dr. Cemil Taşcıoğlu, Professor Professor Murat Dilmener, Professor Professor Dr. Feriha Öz, Professor Professor Dr. Asim Cenani is no longer with us, my friend Dr. Yavuz Kalaycı is no longer with us; Professor Dr. Refik Teylan is not among us; Dr. Assat Ulku is not among us, Dr. Mehmet Ulsoy, Dr. Engin Ünaldaldi, Dent Hedem İrfan Yaylalı is not among us.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0660par0565	Then consider him a martyr.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0657par0566	Intern Doctor, our daughter Merve Coral is not among us, Nurse Emine Ezen, Dilek Akçablen is not among us.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0661par0567	What have you done for them, Mr. Secretary, what have you done? Do you recognize it as occupational illness? Did you give him an additional bonus? Did you count him as a martyr? What did you do?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0657par0568	Ambulance Driver Mehmet Çalışkan is not among us, Patient Register Officer Dilek Board is not among us, Pharmaci Osman Öke is not among us, Pharmaci Taki Türkyılmaz is not among us, Ahmet Kötoğlu is not among us.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0661par0571	What did you do for those employees? Did you do anything other than just take the day off and applaud?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0662par0572	What did you do for them? Did you take care of them?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0663par0573	And you tell him to talk, and then you yell from there. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0664par0575	We have 225 martyrs; I ask God's mercy for them all.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0665par0577	Give them their dues, give them their rights!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0663par0578	Congressmans, please calm down. We buried in our hearts every health worker who sacrificed his life for the health of our citizens during the outbreak. Mr. Secretary, finish up, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0666par0581	Declare occupational illness, occupational illness.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0667par0582	We killed them in the line of duty.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0666par0583	Give them their rights, give them their rights.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0668par0584	Mr. Secretary, what have you done for them?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0667par0585	He left us his memories, his relics.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0666par0586	He was left with his children, his wife, his children. Give them their rights!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0667par0587	They've got a mission they can't complete.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0669par0588	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0667par0589	We're grateful to them, we'll continue to appreciate them.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0670par0590	Minister, give him his rights. Don't say words, give them their rights.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0667par0591	My respects to our High Council.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0671par0593	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0672par0594	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0671par0595	I can't hear you guys, please... Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0672par0597	We may do the general assessment after all the ministers' talks, if the groups, if the need arises, but Mr. Secretary, our Ankara MP Murat Emir has dropped his claims on the stand from social media...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0671par0599	Friends, if you'll excuse me, please... Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0672par0601	If it's a lie, if it's a lie, if it's a lie, it's a lie.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0671par0603	Congressmans, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0672par0604	And I think our congressman has a right to an answer for this denial.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0671par0605	Mr. Altay did not deny, he merely corrected what Mr. Emir had said.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0672par0606	No way!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0671par0607	Otherwise, you're lying. He didn't say it.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0672par0608	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0671par0609	Mr. Altay, even we have to exercise our right to tease. If it were true what Mr. Emir wrote on social media, I wouldn't be a Covid patient, and 70 of our deputies would not be sick with me; 12 of them are still positive. What's there to pick on, for God's sake? No way!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0672par0610	Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute! Wait a minute! You don't make that kind of judgment, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0671par0611	Of course, sir, there's an AK PARTI that he's told and thrown away, and I'm in it, and I'm in it, and I'm one of the ones who got caught with Covid.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0672par0612	Yeah, well, you can't make this personal while you're sitting there.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0671par0613	You're right, all right. Here you go, but I won't promise to tease you, but I can promise you on behalf of the group,
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0672par0615	On the floor, on the floor.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0671par0616	On behalf of the group, I promise you your location.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0673par0617	No, look, the Minister said I twisted the truth.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0671par0618	Mr. Emir, no teasing; on behalf of the group, I promise you your position. Here, on behalf of the group...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0673par0622	First of all, thank you for giving the Minister the opportunity to speak the truth. I'll tell you about the e-nabez: I've told you about the tenders given since 2003, you've entrusted the liver to the cat; they didn't have to do anything about the e-nabez -- because of the information that Bilbest didn't get -- but if Bilbest goes to the website, there's also one here -- there's one part of Bilbest e-nabez where he got a job. He can look at his own website. The problem here is that a Deputy Minister has received all public tenders with oil honey through the hall, and we expect the Minister to be embarrassed if he's embarrassed. Secondly, dear friends, look, I asked you here, I asked you officially, I asked you everywhere: why do you buy these test kits from a company and how much do you get from them? They didn't answer. After that, the price came at $9.8 when the DMO was tendered and not bought over USHAS.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0674par0627	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0673par0628	However, when the Minister noticed this distortion, he probably billed it backwards when we said so.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0675par0630	You're still saying that! The man gave his example here! He gave me your tweet, your newspaper, the case. He answered your lie.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0673par0631	I've already said it there, I've said it there, I've even thanked the Minister, but what the Minister had to do was, by July, when we were asking this question, why didn't he say, "We took it from $32?" When I asked him in September, we bought it for £32, but I cut it down to $9.8. Why didn't he say? Why didn't he tell me he'd relieved four of his bureaucrats? Our objection is that the Minister didn't give any information here. Otherwise, the Minister did the right thing there, but he's late, so he has to explain the embarrassment of being late.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0676par0633	That's not gonna happen! That's not an answer!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0677par0634	Guys, what the hell is wrong with you?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0676par0635	Mr. President, we don't want to hear the same lies. What the hell is this?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0678par0636	He's talking the same lies, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0679par0637	Mr. President, finally, I would like to say that Mr. Secretary is used to saying the numbers by reducing them, and he owns all the health martyrs, and he speaks as if they were our enemies, not 225, but 231 medical martyrs.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit06spe0680par0638	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0680par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Health Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account CIRKEY MEDICINE AND TIBI TERRIBLE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices' Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Board Final Account for Central Management in 2019 THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITUTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The Interior Ministry's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) Police General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account JANDARMA GENIAL COMMUNITY [[Continue]] 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Gendarme General Command 2019 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Coast Guard Command 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Central Management Budget for 2021 2) General Directorate of Migration Administration 2019 Central Management Final Account E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister for Disaster and Emergency Management 2019 Central Management Final Account The commission is in place. The second word for executive is Minister of Environment and Urbanism, Mr Murat Kurum. Here you go, Mr. Corporation.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0681par0051	Mr. President, I'm here to present valuable lawmakers with information on the work of our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and the 2020s of our General Directorate of Tapu and Kadastro and its 2021-year goals. On behalf of myself and my Ministry, I salute our beloved nation, our Veteran Assembly, your esteemed deputies. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, the year 2020 as we approach their final days has been a year of trials and accounting for our world. Because of the outbreak of Covid-19, our world is going through a difficult time. Especially in 2020, we saw the most dramatic consequences of the irreversible damage that developed governments have done to the environment, nature, and biological diversity over the past hundred years. Turkey, our country, unlike these countries, has always been a country responsible for the environment and the balance of nature. Turkey, together, has always put governance first at the point of adapting to climate change and the spread of environmental urban practices. So, from the moment we arrived in office, we took environmental and urbanism steps in accordance with the spirit of the presidential government system, with our local governments, keeping our consultation channels open until the end. I, in this sense, thank you to our governors, our deputies, our mayors, and our mayors, who, in this sense, have come to a visit to our 81 provinces, where we have found solutions together. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear MPs, each of our 81 cities is our body, and the environment and nature are our soul. We see the environment and the city as part of a whole. We preserve our environment with our nation's gardens, with our ecology corridors, with our Climate Change Action Plan, and again with our zero waste movement, our natural protection fields, which we increase our facial measurements day by day, and we move into the future. We see our cities as 81 separate centers of good, beauty, art, culture, sports and health, and we work with that understanding. As the heritage of our civilization prepares our cities for disasters, we put environmental sensitivity and horizontal urbanization at the center of our work. Dear MPs, in 2020, we had devastating earthquakes in Elazig, Malatya, and last in İzmir. We've lost 158 lives in these earthquakes. I ask for God's mercy to all of our citizens who have lost, and I pray for immediate healing to the wounded, and our state has mobilized to heal our ministers, our ministers, our Turkish banks, our provinces, our gendarmes, our security, our AFAD, our AFKE, our Redbears, all of our civil society organizations, our volunteers, our earthquake-deprived citizens. In each of our three counties, we quickly started our work on search, rescue, damage detection and transformation. We quickly began the construction of 31,000 new homes in Elazig and Malatya, including 26,000 in İzmir, and 5,000 in İzmir. In less than eight months, we delivered 3,000 of our dwellings to our citizens in Elazıg and Malatya. In Izmir, we prepared our projects quickly, and as of yesterday, we had our first tender. Next year, we will be delivering their dwellings to both the Malatya and the victims in Elazig. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Congressmans, as we've always said, earthquake transformation is as important as the fight against terrorism. Sadly, 71 percent of our population today live in risky areas, and over the last hundred years, 80,000 of our citizens have died in earthquakes. Just as we were together yesterday in Düzçe, in Hosheli, in Van, and in Bingol, in Elazığ, in Malatya, in İzmir, after the earthquakes, we still have to be together at the point of preparation for the earthquake. Earthquakes and urban transformation are a matter of common interest, a matter of policy. I'd like to stress this: there is not a penny, a single broken bill that our government can't account for; in 17 years, more and more of the government's tax for earthquakes have been spent on earthquake zones, on our earthquake victims, on our citizens, in preparation for earthquakes, strengthening, publicization, prevention. After the 1999 earthquake, 80 thousand permanent dwellings were made for our victims. Dear President, members of lawmakers, we have accelerated our campaign of urban transformations in Istanbul, which our President launched in 2012, at any political cost, with an urban transformation move all over Turkey, and we have completed the transformation of 1.5 million dwellings across the country from 2012 to today. We've secured the safety of the lives and property of six million of our citizens who live here. With our construction control system, we inspected 6 million independent sections from 2001 to today, allowing 24 million of our citizens to live in earthquake-resistant housing. I'd like to point out here that most of the buildings that were heavily damaged or destroyed in our findings in the Elazig and Izmir quakes were unsanitary buildings that were built before 1999, and this is the result of the construction inspection of the measures we took after the 1999 earthquake. IN 18 years, 4 million of our citizens live safely in 975 thousand homes produced by our TOKI. In the last two years, we've delivered 80,000 dwellings, hopefully, by completing our 1 millionth residence, delivering keys with the arrival of our President in early 2021, and building 1 million dwellings by a public administration that may be the first in the world. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] A representative's statement never reflects the truth in places where there are only rants in Istanbul. In urban transformation, we prioritize not on the value of the land, but on the weakness of the building. In this scope, we work in Istanbul alone in 64 high-risk areas the size of 10 million square meters. Beyoğlu Okmeydanı, Gaziosmanpaşa, Güngören Tozkoparan, Bağcıler, Esen, Ataşehir are just some of the urban transformation projects we run in these areas. When you go and look at any of these areas... You're making urban transformations in the area of Rant. Those who say that they've never seen these areas. We are currently renovating 72,000 buildings, consisting of 370,000 independent units in Istanbul. We have completed the destruction of 310,791 unsanitary dwellings, and in these areas our new, safe, and healthy housing, our homes are rapidly rising. We run 41 urban transformation projects in 22 districts in Istanbul, with the chairmanship of the Turkish Cypriots alone. In this case, we've projected 85,000 dwellings. In the last eight months, we laid the foundations of 10,000 dwellings in Istanbul. (AK PARTY) We started our first and only 60,000 urban transformation projects in the world, which we thought was particularly important for Istanbul's transformation. We're doing a similar project on the Anatolian side of Istanbul, which we started on the European side of Europe. With our president's instructions, we have taken steps to end the victimhood of our citizens in the Ideatepe. We are also starting the new Fiklatepe project, which directly concerns 60,000 of our citizens, with all its infrastructure, to build 15,000 homes with an investment value of $5 billion. In our eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions, we have also covered the wounds of our cities that have been damaged by terrorist incidents. With their social utensils, we handed over 26,000 dwellings to our brothers and sisters who were victims of terrorism. Currently, there are 272,000 homes and urban transformation dwellings, worth 81 billion euros in investments, which are currently being built across the country. In 2021, we will also begin our 80000 housing urban transformation and social housing project, which is a total investment price of $25 billion. I'm highlighting this: in the last 18 years, we've secured 65 percent of the buildings in our country with our TOKI housing, with our building control system, and with the public and private sector, we've secured more than 54 million of our citizens against disasters again. In our areas at risk of floods and lands, we have begun construction of 118 dwellings in Tripoli Arakak, and 570 in Giresun Bulancak. Again, in Giresun's New Dere Project -- which our deputy's testimony is completely false -- we've launched our project, which we've taken out of the creek route in 2021, which is not at any risk in the work we've done with our State Water Jobs, and hopefully we'll also build the New Derell, which we'll deliver to our citizens in 2021. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] We're reanimating our historic city centers in a way that's actually true. In this ihya project, Ankara Saraçoglu -- which is our first Turkish architecture examples -- we've started the project in Kızılay, on 100 acres, which we really care about, that reflects our history, our culture, our civilization, and again, in Ankara Hergelen Square, Konya Mevlana Square, the very important project that will bring our inn to light. At Erzurum, Medrese of the Double Minare, we are also doing the restoration of both urban transformation and historical buildings around the Great Mosque. At Kayseri Kaleiçi, Yozgat Çapanoglu and Kastamon Nasrullah Mosque, again in Diyarbakır, in Niğde, in Mugda, in Kütahya, in Sinop. Dearly beloved, we're doing a very important transformation project around the last Balıkesir Zagnos Pasha Mosque, which is a very important historical value. We started the street health project there, both the square project and the parking lot project. Hopefully, as soon as we bring these historic centers and squares to light. In the urban transformation, another headline is that we're moving the industrial areas of the city into a much more modern and broader area, and we're building regional-level parking lots in our city, especially in those major cities, that will satisfy the need for parking. As we make all these investments, our Parliament has also made very important arrangements in the name of the future of our cities, particularly the urban transformation. With these regulations, no urban transformation project is interrupted; our citizen has the right to a unilateral dissolution. You can plan on the island, you can't plan on the parcel, you can't plan on anything. H: Free used to be H: free now, whatever the building structures are, they're determined by the building structures around here. If there's a value increase in the plot due to the development change, it's all being transferred to our government, to the public. At this point, I would like to express my gratitude to all of our deputies who have taken these steps, who have facilitated the process in urban transformation, and who have worked hard to get this law out. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I would also like to present to you today that there is no obstacle to urban transformation. Our municipalities have no barriers to detection, destruction, and construction. It's about making decisions about urban transformation, making decisions, taking initiative, taking action. In this sense, I invite all our municipalities to be much more active in urban transformation, and I would like to make the promise that we, as the Ministry, will give no province, 83 million of our citizens any support for urban transformation, under the roof of the Supreme Assembly. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] The honorable MPs, Your Highness, have said how the greens laugh if the clouds don't cry. Today, across the world, our clouds are crying, our greens are not laughing; our forests, with its landscape, with its green texture, are burning because of the extreme heat. Our seas, which hope and cheer our people with blue, are grappling with the pollution of man's hands. In the old days, nature didn't need an interpreter, just an open spirit to understand its beauty. We could have said, "Snow doesn't stay in summer, it doesn't stay in green." But now, because of climate change in our world, seasons have changed; snow has changed, summer, green. Today, according to the European Union's Climate Change Service, the year 2020 will be the hottest year in history, and it may not snow anywhere in the world in 2040. Today, Turkey is determined to take steps to eliminate the real problem, not dressing treatments at the point of fighting global climate change. Today, our country in the Mediterranean basin has experienced the effects of climate change, such as floods, landslides, storms, and droughts, and so on. In order for no further casualties due to these disasters, we have implemented our regional climate change plans for our 541-point national and 7-point districts. Hopefully, we'll join hands with our municipalities and make our cities in harmony with the environment, with nature. Here is our Zero Waste Project, which Mr. Emine Erdogan, started in 2017, the largest, most precious step for our country and our world. So far, we've established a zero waste system in our 58,000 institutions and corporations; we've given over 17 million tons of usable waste to recycling again; we've saved $17 billion in economic gains, 343 million tons/meters of water, we've blocked 2 billion tons of greenhouse gas emissions, we've reduced the use of plastic bags by 80 percent, and we've prevented the production of 190 thousand tons of plastic waste. Hopefully, by 2023, we'll build a zero waste system throughout Turkey. By increasing our recycling rate to 35 percent, we will provide the raw materials need in our recycling sector -- which our deputy says we import -- from our own resources. This year, our Parliament will adopt a very important law on environmentalism, hopefully, and Turkey's Environment Agency will be established. In this case, the deposit return system will be effectively managed from one centre, and zero waste applications will be quickly expanded. In 2020, we again conducted 34,000 environmental checks to prevent pollution and imposed 227 million administrative fines on the facilities. In the last 18 years, our County Bank and I have provided $118 billion in financial support for our local governments. Dear lawmakers, our Ecoological Corridor Project continues rapidly in our 81 million square metres of national garden and 22 counties, where our President shared with our nation. We form four ecological lines from Ankara to the Black Sea delta, from Aegean to Foça, from the Mediterranean to Patara, and from East Anatolia to Lake Van.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0682par0080	Mr. Secretary, finish your words, I'll extend your time.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0681par0081	We are now building a garden of 278 nations in our 78 provinces, with an investment value of 16 billion liras, the size of 50 million square metres; and we have completed 42. Hopefully, we will complete the others as soon as possible. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In the last two years, we've increased our protected area size by 1 percent from 9.6 to 10.6, which hopefully we've been working day and night to increase to 17 percent of OECD data. I've just watched the HDP MPs speak with a genuine example. The HDP MP, in his own way, teaches us environmentalism, urbanism. We have seen your environmentalism on the streets of Diyarbakır, on the streets of Sur. In the historical monuments you burned down in Şırnak, Mardin, we have seen the destruction of our mosques, the symbol of this nation's independence! [[AK PARTI and MHP rankings ▪Bravo▪ voices, applause; noise from HDP rows]] Look, the old Wall, now the new Wall.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0683par0087	Who flooded Hasankeyf, Hasankeyf? Who flooded Hasankeyf, Mr. Secretary? Did the HDP flood Hasankeyf?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0681par0088	Melik Ahmet Street, the old version, the new version; look, look. Behold, the ancient Tyreite of Kaleichi, the new version of Kaleichi. Look, our historical values are the Fatih Pasha Mosque; here's the old one, here's the new one. [[AK PARTI and MHP are applauding in rows; the sounds of ▪Bravo!, the noises of HDP rows]] You left behind tens of thousands of weeping people, thousands of families, cities in ruins, and you can't teach us environmentalism or urbanism. (AK PARTY AND MHP APPLAUSE) We last saw your environmentalism at work on Mount 40s. Look, look at the buildings on Mount 40s. We saw it on Mount 40s.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0684par0092	Mr. Secretary, I'm going to extend it one last time, so please finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0681par0093	We've all seen what a mess you've done, what a natural slaughter you've done on that green mountain of 40s that's become a subject to the Turks. You can't tell us about the destruction, the massacre, when we're in the east, we're trying to repair the debris you left in the southeast, we're trying to do what you've done, and we're building the east, we're building the southeast, we're trying to do it, we're doing it, we're doing it, we're doing it, we're doing it, we're doing it, we're doing it, we're doing it, we're doing it, we're doing it, we're doing it, we're doing it, we're doing it, we're doing it, we're doing it, we're doing it, we're doing it, we're doing it, we're doing it, we're doing it, we're doing it, (ARK PARTI and MHP rows) You have stolen, plundered, slaughtered, slaughtered the lives of our mothers, our Kurdish brothers, and not just the environmental and urbanism of this country.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0685par0095	You stole it!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0686par0096	You have come to answer to Parliament, to answer. We've seen it, we've seen it, you've looted it, you've stolen it.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0681par0097	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, today is December 12th. At the time when our President was mayor of İstanbul Metropolitan City, he also read a poem on December 12th and then was convicted for it. They wanted to shadow our nation's growing support as an avalanche, prevent the great journey from Turkey, which began in Istanbul. Despite any attempt to block it for 18 years, under the leadership of our President, our great journey to Turkey will continue with the will of Allah, with the support of our nation, with new success stories.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0687par0099	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0681par0100	As the ministry, we will continue our efforts to build human-oriented, quality-of-life cities as long as history, our nation, our President's mission is on our shoulders. As an EC PARTY, we have so far carried out every project that our citizens, our cities, need.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0687par0102	Mr. Secretary, I'm going to open one last minute, but I'm not going to open another. Please wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0681par0103	We have given Marmaray, Eurasia Tunnel, Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, Osmangazi Bridge, Istanbul Airport, city hospitals, the most modern stadiums of Turkey, thousands of social and cultural facilities, thousands of parks, tens of thousands of national gardens, hundreds of thousands of dwellings to our beloved nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] And now, with our Ministry of Transport, we're implementing the largest transformation project in our republic's history. We're taking steps from the Canal Istanbul Project, which will be Turkey's most environmental project with national gardens, ecology corridors, and the nation's gardens. We will not have 83 million of our citizens served day and night in 81 counties. Hopefully, with our work, we will win the hearts of our nation, and we will receive his prayer.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0687par0108	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0681par0109	With these feelings, I wish our budget of 2021 was good for our country, and I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0687par0111	Friends, members of lawmakers, a little calmer, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0688par0112	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0687par0113	Mr. Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0688par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, the Minister who posed on top of the broken buildings in the earthquake can't teach us a lesson in humanity. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) We forbid him to do so. And he can't accuse our group of people who have come here as appointed, representing millions of people who have been chosen here. We'll never agree to that.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0689par0119	He swore here, I swear!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0688par0120	Another matter, Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0690par0121	Guys, excuse me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0688par0122	I also said in my speech on the stand that they're attacking the HDP to cover up thefts, corruption, to get applause here, not to show the public the truth, that's a AKP classic.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0691par0123	Get out of here!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0688par0124	The minister spoke for 20 minutes, didn't get a single round of applause; when he started accusing us, he got applause. That's another aspect of politics. [[Applause from HDP rows]] First, I'll tell Mr. Secretary: First, tell us about the land you've been chasing on the Canal Istanbul route. Who'd you sell it to? Tell me about them. What did you give Qatar? Tell me about them. Tell them how you destroyed Sur. There's been a curfew for five years so that all of Turkey can see.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0692par0128	You destroyed it, you!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0688par0129	You flooded Hasankeyf, tell us, and we'll see. [[Photo showing by Environment and Urbanism Minister Murat Kurum]] [[AK PARTI and MHP rows always applaud, HDP rows make noise]] Thank you, I think they're applauding me! Lies! Lies! They're pictures of you on the computer to hide the truth.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0693par0135	Congressman, I can't hear anything right now. Congressmans, look, I can't hear anything; I can't manage if I can't hear it.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0694par0136	Mr. President, we don't break tables, we steal applause.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0693par0137	Well done, very good, I didn't say anything, but I can't hear.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0695par0138	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0693par0139	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0695par0140	Do you know that Melik has destroyed Ahmet Street in this city three times in two years, your trustee? He's washing it, he's doing it again, he's washing it, he's doing it again. I wonder where you're giving them. Tell me about him so we can really understand.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0696par0141	You wouldn't understand!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0695par0142	Despite the lack of authority of the trustee-run municipality of Sur, the four-legged Minare had to pay billions of lira under the name Environment Editing. There is the blood of the prophet Tahir, and the blood of the prophet; and you shall never be saved from it. They still haven't been judged, and you're collecting rants from Minare the Four-legged, and even from there, you're collecting rants, and I've got a lot of numbers on that. The Minister of Environment and Urbanism can't cover up his crimes like this. From the mountains of the geese to Hasankeyf. From Hasankeyf. From Sur. From Sur. From the Sur.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0697par0144	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0695par0145	Mr. President, you gave them ten minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0697par0146	One more minute, and I'll extend it for the last time, because you just couldn't talk.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0695par0147	You won't be able to hide the truth about this because there is a HDP.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0698par0148	Give me the account of Mount Fortys, and we are ready for anything.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0695par0149	The Home Secretary can't help it there -- he'll be on the stand soon -- because you commit these crimes together, you're all in the same league. I think that's enough. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0699par0153	Would you guys excuse me? Mr. Corporate, do you want to talk about bullying? There are heavy statements, not from your position, from the stand.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0695par0155	Yeah, you'll be forced to promise.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0700par0156	Is that a promise?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0699par0157	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0701par0161	Now in Izmir...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0699par0163	Guys, don't hurt the podium, hit it with your hand on the table. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0701par0165	And I went to Izmir, and was with them in the street, and in Izmir, and in Bornova, and in the Flaglah, and in the Farukah, and in Segithisar.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0699par0167	Congressman, I can't hear you, come on.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0701par0168	I shared their pain day and night. I've never been on any debris. You're so edible you can climb over the wreckage. You're slandering a citizen because you don't have a problem with the city, and you don't know what you're doing or what you're doing. This Canal has never made a go of anyone related to Istanbul. We've worked for 18 years in this country day and night with our deputies, our mayors and our nation's prayers, we'll work again, we'll work again, we'll work again.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0702par0172	Well said.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0703par0173	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0704par0174	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0703par0175	Mr. Beştaş, the Minister didn't say anything to pick on you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0704par0176	Mr. President, his final word...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0703par0177	Mr. Beştaş didn't say anything to pick on me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0705par0178	You forced the Minister out, he didn't have any demands.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0703par0179	Mr. Toğrul, are you going to run this place or am I going to run it? Excuse me. Mr. Beştaş didn't make any statements to make.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0706par0181	Mr. President, for the record.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0703par0182	Tell him, put him on the record, talk to him, over.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0706par0183	Mr. President, you're... [CROWD APPLAUSE]
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0703par0184	Guys, come on, please. Congressmans, please!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0706par0185	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0703par0186	I'm not opening it, so you go ahead and put it on the record.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0706par0187	You have to be objective.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0703par0188	I am neutral.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0706par0189	There's a heavy accusation there." You make a specific promise, and you give the last word to the Minister.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0703par0190	But you picked on me. There's no teasing you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0706par0191	This is the last word. He was teasing, how could he not? I want the transcripts.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0703par0192	We'll come to the last word, as the MP of Mr. Servet Ünsal, I promise to give it to him.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0706par0193	But the last word is not for the minister here.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0703par0194	Sir, can that happen? Don't make fun of me. Look, there's no difference between the minister and our ministers joining the General Assembly, according to the Interior Charter.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0707par0195	The Minister had no demands, no demands. He didn't have a request.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0706par0196	I didn't even know what he was talking about with the noise. I don't even get it right now. I'll take a look at the records.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0703par0198	It's okay. It's okay. You're on the record, you'll read it in the transcripts.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0706par0199	I'll take a look at the records.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0703par0200	Thank you. 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Health Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account CIRKEY MEDICINE AND TIBI TERRIBLE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices' Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Board Final Account for Central Management in 2019 THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITUTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The Interior Ministry's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) Police General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account JANDARMA GENIAL COMMUNITY [[Continue]] 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Gendarme General Command 2019 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Coast Guard Command 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Central Management Budget for 2021 2) General Directorate of Migration Administration 2019 Central Management Final Account E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister for Disaster and Emergency Management 2019 Central Management Final Account The last word for the executive is for Mr. Süleyman Soylu. Here you are, Your Royal Highness.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0708par0248	The lion of God is coming!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0709par0249	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have made a commitment in honor of the Ministry of Interior's budget for 2021, with respect and respect to our Veteran Assembly. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I was at a martyr's funeral yesterday, and our friends in Ankara. We were at the funeral of Captain Yasin, and our friends were at the funeral of Specialist Sergeant Oguzhan. I was at a martyr's funeral last week. I've heard perhaps the noblest sentence I've ever heard. And I bowed down, and I offered my condolences unto the wife of the martyr, and she said: O minister, my wife was never late for her work, and she went where she was called. Minister, now that God has loved him and called him, he has gone to his highest level. You know why this country is free, why this country is independent and why this country stands? It's because of these women and these people who believe in their dignity, their loyalty to their land, their unbreakable integrity. (AK PARTY and MHP) On this occasion, I bow before all of our martyrs, all of our veterans, in the presence of all of them, with mercy, with gratitude, with gratitude, with gratitude, with the health and pleasure of our living veterans. May God not disgrace us to them. [[From the AK PARTY lines, they applaud the voices, the sounds of the Amen.]] Mr. President and valued deputies, we grew up following the atrocities of Palestine and Afghanistan, the Iran-Iraq War, the sad news of our children who were martyrs in the terrorist acts of ASALA and PKK. The imperial world has put all its costs and problems on our geography over the last three hundred years. However, the 21st century began differently in the world and Turkey. In the 90s, how the European Union, which we were all so excited to follow, had suffered from the beginning of the 21st century, and the world was writhing in great disorientation and complexity, and Turkey, thankfully, survived by its own power. From the beginning of the century, with our new and improved infrastructure, our capacity, our domestic and national drones, our helicopters, our missiles, all our defense industry products, our software, our most modern health facilities, our hospitals, the world's largest airports, our immigration leadership conscience, and, finally, praise God to God, our own self-signed Ayasofya Mosque. Those who try to condemn this geography with captivity and shackles follow this march, whether they like it or not from the beginning of the 21st century, in awe, but at the same time with great surprise and jealousy. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Today, there is a Turkey left alone in the fight against terrorism. While Switzerland is building a cable car for tourists at 3,000 yards, we are building a police station at 3,055 altitudes on the Iranian border of our province and fighting terrorism, smuggling and drugs, but we are also trying to do what Switzerland did. Today, there's a Turkey alone in the fight against drugs. While the Netherlands plans its economy with tulips of 14.400 hectares, we also try to take measures against the growth of 2.7 times as many as 115 million cannabis plants as last year; 22.9 billion euros -- 22.9 billion market-priced -- but we also try to do what the Netherlands did.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0710par0257	You did it, you did it all!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0709par0258	Those who remain silent about the oil exchanges and symbiotic relations of terrorist organisations they invest in ignore almost as many foreigners in our country as the population of Ireland; they also condemn the immigrants whom they catch in the Aegean and the Mediterranean. But Turkey deals with the right strategies and with its power in the 21st century, all these problems that have fallen on it. Now, what one of us, ten years ago, would have imagined that we could claim oil in the Eastern Mediterranean? When one of us imagined that in Cyprus, we could open Marashan again without asking anyone about him, without looking at the world's finger shaking? Which of us would have imagined that we would join hands with our brothers and see the matter of Karabakh as a victory? (AK PARTY and MHP rows) Which one of us would imagine that we could normalize the lives of 1,750,000 people across the border, 8,161 square kilometers, and give them the hand of this Anatolian civilization, which one of us would? Ladies and gentlemen, precious deputies, this country has gone a little further than Iraq, and they've dropped our switch. Thank God, no matter what America says today, no matter what Europe says, there's a strong, big Turkey that's almost on top of our terrorist organization. (ARK PARTI and MHP rows) Which one of us, while trying to repair the Heron Years we received from Israel yesterday with our money, would imagine that we could make our own drones, our own SIHA, and our own engineers' moon-star signatures? Praise be to Allah. I'm telling you one more thing: I've told you about the past ten years, and I'm telling you about the next ten years. Today, thanks be to God, Turkey is walking with millions of people and millions of people in our heart geography towards Redelmah. [[From the AK PARTY and MHP rows (Bravo) voices, applause]] I would like to point out that from the day this House was founded, it's been a very difficult time. For our freedom, our independence, and our democracy, this Parliament has worked very hard. Our Parliament is the only Parliament in the world that has ever ruled a war for salvation. In each blow, he wanted to be discredited by every junta administration, the politics of this House were humiliated. Last July 15th -- we all lived -- was actually bombed. Today, however, we have the greatest opportunity in our history. From Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, to Menderes, from Demirel, to Ozal, from Turkesh, to Erbakan, with all of our statesmen suffering from this struggle, Turkey has come to this point to dig with our nails. For the first time, there's a Turkey that can bring problems into their territory; there's a Turkey that's not scared, there's no fear, there's no fear, there's a Turkey that can name any issue. Migration, terrorism is their problem now. It's not the first time we've captured the advanced world, it's the first time we've captured it with its troops about to fall apart. For the first time, we caught them together with their disgraced, questioned, underprivileged leaders in public. We caught him in a state where the marginal groups were dominated and their civilisations were blown away. We caught him trapped in the problems of capitalist and imperialist mentality. For the first time, there is a Turkey in this country that opposes us, along with the power of politics, the power of the state, and the noble, upright standing of our nation, against those who try to discipline us with 8,000 per cent overnight interest, with newspaper headlines in this country. I have a call: let's not lose this opportunity together. This is our greatest responsibility to our future generations, to our past generations, and to this Turkey, which has been entrusted to us. Today's conclusion does not only benefit us; Turkey, as it did yesterday in the Istliklal War, guides, encourages, gives vision, and creates this great politics as it did today. I thank Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who consolidates his great political personality, his faith, the spirit of the nation, his history, his will, and his leadership, in front of this Veteran Assembly and before history. And again, with the Cumhur Alliance, the leader of the Nationalist Movement Party, which is not involved in any political negotiation, has received all the responsibility for the back of my country and the back of our nation. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Mr. President, the most valuable lawmakers, of course, don't need to explain that 2020 is a very different year for humanity and for our country. Thanks to the stability of our health infrastructure and the power of our state tradition and administrative structure in the worldwide outbreak of Covid-19, we were not overwhelmed by the problem of mask piracy in the West. On this occasion, I give thanks to our workers, the health workers, the governors, the governors and the law enforcement officers who exercise their efforts in the field, to the workers of all public institutions, to the employees of all public institutions, to the workers of the Vefa Social Support Group, to the bakers who make bread, and to the couriers who deliver water and groceries, despite the difficult conditions, to the tradesmen, to our industry, to our merchants, to our farmers, to the large-hearted animal lovers who lay their hands on all the animals of our land. But here, with all due respect, in front of all of you, as a man of my closest knowledge of how this matter is being handled, in the presence of our health minister, Dr. Fahrettin Koca, a hero man, my gratitude and thanks. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] And this year, we've given great trials about earthquake and disaster management -- thank God -- never again. In any disaster we have experienced this year, there has been no trouble, no confusion, no lack of help, no trouble, in the floods of Elazig Dizce, Van Basle, Bingol Karlıova, İzmir Seferihisar, the floods of Giresun and Bursa, the fire in Hatay, and many disasters in Hatay. It's easy for me to put it this way, and we'll say, "No one in the United States can find the performance that we've performed in an intervention and in disaster management, and no one can find it in Europe." (AK PARTY and OPERATOR) Even in a hurricane, we have seen Europe, America, and America together. Thank you, God, for our capacity, our ability is the result of this country's human being and its capacity and ability. And again, in particular this year's disasters, a total of 338 of our citizens were saved alive. We'd like to thank all of the government's agencies and NGO employees who participated in these studies. In all disasters this year, a total of $1 billion,246 million in emergency assistance was used, last year it was 386.5 million. I wish all the citizens we have lost because of these disasters, mercy from God, health and pleasure to the wounded, and my condolences to those who face these disasters. And I'll tell you this: we're trying to take all our precautions. Of course you will, your criticism reminds us more of our own responsibilities, and we're conscious of that, but I want to make one thing clear: we're all working hard as if there's an earthquake tomorrow. Whoever does politics in this regard, God will strike, and this nation will hit, and I'll make it very clear to you. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] We're one of two countries in the United Nations General Assembly, which can achieve a 50 percent reduction in car accidents between 2011 and 20. This is a great success story for Turkey. This is the most important result of our capacity, our roads, our health infrastructure, our airports and the control mechanism we come from in traffic. Let me make this very clear: We were losing 7.530 people a year here in 2015. You know what we're gonna close this year with? We'll close at a number below 4.930. What about our target? In Europe, it is five percent per 100,000; in Germany it is 3.9 per 100,000. The United Nations General Assembly measured us in 2011, and we are 13.4 in a hundred thousand; now, hopefully, we will close this year at 5.9 percent in a hundred thousand. You'll see, hopefully soon, we'll draw it to 5 in 100,000, then to 3.9 in 100 thousand, then to 2.8 in Britain level. At the moment, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, says, "How did you manage to do that? Because we've got a world leader on our hands, we've got a target, and we're putting a lot of effort into it. Our goal is zero casualties in traffic. Reviving the market and neighborhood watch and raising the capacity of law enforcement... the day after July 15th... I'll tell you this: we've embezzled everyone who committed theft in Ankara to a police officer, three burglaries a day, and he's coming from the outside. The total number of thefts in Turkey was 285, this year reduced to 157, and hopefully our goal next year will be to reduce it to 100. In Ankara, there are 3 burglaries per day, 5 per day in İzmir.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0711par0277	Guys, take it easy, please. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0709par0279	I don't know who's talking.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0711par0280	I don't know either, but go ahead.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0709par0281	If you're talking, you're used to nailing, my dear, your congressman's phone is ringing in his pocket, don't mention it. [[AK PARTI and MHP rankings ▪Bravo▪ voices, applause; noise from HDP rows]] Don't talk to me. But I'll tell you something else: look, even if you throw that phone in the acid well, we've reached the technology that can figure out what's inside it; there's no America, there's no America, there's no America. [[AK PARTI and MHP welcomes you from HDP rows ▪ Lies, lies...]] Again, the number of women's murders under Law 6284 was 319 (December 8th) last year, with less than 22 per cent this year; there was more than one. Know that -- I won't take this bet too long -- but this is the bet that we're dealing with the most -- and here, on the one hand, the Family, the Ministry of Education -- led by him -- and then the Ministry of Justice, us and the Religious Affairs, are putting forth a great effort to get this issue off the agenda of Turkey. And again, the biggest drug and crime-income operation in the history of the Republic was the Swamp operation in 2020. Put 209 in custody for drug crimes this year; pay attention to that figure. 22,518 people have been arrested, and 83,675 are still under arrest for drug charges. Again, the number of drug-related deaths in 2017 -- the number of drug-related medical institutes -- has been reduced to 342. The first ten months of this year are 143. I'm telling you, whatever we're treating the terrorist, it's our oath to treat the drug deal the same way. It's our greatest but greatest philosophy to save mothers and children from them, to save our future generations from them. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] We've gotten a very serious distance from population and citizenship services. Today, in the introduction of new identity cards, we are able to give all of them in one day and one day in major cities, one day in other provinces of Anatolia, three plus one day. So you get a passport, you get a birth certificate, you get a driver's license; the distance Turkey gets today is not in many countries in the world, and you'll see, this is going to be one of our most important export pens, the technology we get here. From 2016 to today, we have distributed the identity card of some 61 million of our citizens, and again, we have made a revolution in population work on the scale of the world. We continued to produce new brands. In the past few years, KADES, which reaches 1 million -- about 60,000 reports have come in, 30,000 of them are real reports -- in three minutes, four minutes, our police teams are leaving. And for that, we ask our great Council for help, and we ask for support. Only women can get in, men can't get in, and I believe... so it doesn't matter whether they see violence or not, but think about it, the moment you see someone who's violent next to you, right after you hit a single button, four minutes later... (AK PARTI rows) There's no such ability in any country in the world as a state and a private sector, if you find it, for example, show it. The brands and many brands such as the red whistle, such as the safety table, were last year's brands. We've produced new brands and projects. In the fight against drugs, the best DEA officer in the fight against drugs, the mother cyber-security (SIBERAY) for crimes against the environment and animals, the Digital Satisfaction Survey, the new force in response to disasters, we have formed the Police Search and Rescue Team; just like JAK, this PAK will provide a very important area in Turkey. For special operations training -- there are four countries in the world -- the SATEM and again the Loyalty Social Support Line for our citizens who are subject to epidemics is one of our brands this year. Again, I'll tell you one more important thing: the E-government Project has passed the age of our government, Turkey. We have only e-knowledge, e-government, technology, efficiency and production resources that we have saved by 9.1 billion dollars per year in 2020; 9.1 quadrillion dollars. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have a very important difference in the past, and we no longer look at any problem with one pair of glasses. For example, we are no longer just fighting armed war against the PKK terror organization we have been fighting for 40 years, but we are also dealing with the backwardness and isolation of the east and southeast that they have exploited, as well as the support behind it. We are no longer turning a blind eye to those who have received instructions from the inspector of the Kandil in the back room, who provides intelligence, who digs holes in the organization, who removes the city's terrorist funeral through the city, who makes bombings, who names the terrorists in the streets and streets, who store rockets and weapons in the city building, who have received instructions from the Kandil inspector in the back room, who has no weapons and does not live in the cave. [[Noises from HDP rows]] [[Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) MPs display photos]] We do what Spain did to Batasuna. As the High Court of Spain closed Batasuna, the High Court said: "The rejection of violence and its failure to be condemned by all other parties is a covert support for terrorism. (HDP rows) As someone today cannot condemn Kurdistan, when Batasuna lawyers object to the ECHM, the ECHM has given a clear answer, saying: "It is not the only reason, but even if it were the only reason, the decision is true, it is not against the contract."
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0712par0298	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0709par0299	That's how we look at it. (AK PARTI and MHP in rows; knocking on rows of HDP rows) was the same thing that happened in Italy. In 2013 they appointed trustees as trustees in Italy because of the dirty relations and networks of the executives of 43, 2019 of 45 municipalities. No one heard from the world, nor from the opposition, nor from the world, nor from the people, nor from the people, nor from the people, nor from the people, nor from the people, nor from the people, nor from the people, nor from the people, nor from the people.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0712par0301	Congressmans, please be quiet.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0709par0302	We do not treat anyone differently than the Golden Dawn Party in Greece, Spain, Italy, France, the principles of the European Convention on Human Rights, Venice Critters. We call the terrorist a terrorist, we call his sponsor a terrorist. We call his informant, his co-conspirator, the mayor who lured the children to the mountain a terrorist; we call him a terrorist in the reign of Imralı. (AK PARTI and MHP are applauding each other from HDP rows to rows) And we call Edirne Demirtaş, Karayilan, a terrorist who eats each other for his seat. Don't worry, we're aware of everything that's going on inside.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0712par0304	Congressmans, don't hit the table. That doesn't change the facts.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0709par0305	I ask you: I've been listening to the texts that have been written in Kandil, and none of them mention the name of Demirtaş. What, did you suspend Demirtaş? Have you suspended Demirtaş? [[AK PARTI and MHP are applauding; HDP rows are noisy, constantly knocking on rows]] The false news from the PKK's news agency does not apply to us. It's not our fault that some mayors from the PKK's connection, who have been removed from office, have been rushed to these municipalities, complain to Greece, complain to Europe. It's not fair to us that yesterday's failures, their new parties, tried to discredit the judgment by saying, "It's not obvious where it came from." There will be no cure for them, nor will they come to the PKK.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0712par0309	Mr. Secretary, a moment of your time. Congressman, I can't hear anything. Look, after this conversation is over, I'm not gonna give it to you because I don't hear if your Group Presidents want to pick on you or anything else. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0713par0312	If you had a few and a half lives, you'd pay your respects to these civilians one day. (AK PARTY AND THROATS) Disgraceful, dishonorable, dishonorable! A little and a half... [[Noises from HDP rows, constant banging on rows]] You're the one with no dignity!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0714par0315	You're a disgrace!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0713par0316	You're gonna pay for these kids, you're gonna pay for these kids! [[Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) MPs display photos]] They're terrorists! You're gonna pay for these kids!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0715par0320	You've got pictures of murderers!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0713par0321	They're workers, aren't you ashamed? They're workers, workers, people who want to earn money. You've become a slave to the PKK!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0716par0323	Congressman, I can't hear, I can't hear.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0713par0324	Mr. Engin Altay, you just said, "Don't criminalize HDP. We don't criminize HDP, nor do we. Do you know who is criminalizing HDP? Please, don't say such a thing to protect the HDP you're with, sometimes covered, open, sometimes. The PKK itself is the terrorist organization that criminalises HDP (HDP).
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0717par0326	There's a picture of you with the killers, your picture!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0716par0327	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0713par0328	You have to answer for the 28 martyrs, the civilian martyrs, the worker.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0716par0330	Mr. Secretary, finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0713par0331	Congressmans, these include Kurds, including Alevi, our people. I'll tell you something, you won't be able to exploit it. Kurds and Alevis are the cement, cement, cement of this country.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0718par0333	Mr. President, a Minister can't insult you like that.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0713par0334	Ma'am, do you know who these are?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0719par0335	Look, look at this. Do you know who these are?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0713par0336	You look at these pictures, they're child terrorists, children, children, terrorists. Do you know who these are?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0720par0339	We know.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0713par0340	They're children's terrorists, children. Do you know who they are? Do you know who these are? These are the children of the PKK, the terrorist organization you speak for here, the mothers' children, the children, and the weapons they gave to their hands.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0721par0344	Know your place.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0713par0345	You see that? Kid's a terrorist, 14, 15 years old.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0722par0346	Look at this, this.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0713par0347	You see these? They're girls, girls.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0723par0348	Don't show off, don't show off.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0713par0349	Ma'am, you're talking about lying, you're talking about Islam, you're talking about lying, you're talking about Islam.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0724par0351	Look, look.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0725par0352	Look, look. There's a picture of you with the killers, your picture.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0713par0353	That's, that's not for you; do you know who that is? This is the P.D.P.D. Look, it says "YPG" here. And here's a picture of that terrorist ringleader, the traitor, Apo.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0725par0354	Look, look.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0713par0355	Look, YPG. I'm not putting this in your eyes, it's the same as the PYD and the PKK.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0726par0358	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0713par0359	And that one? This is herzese, herzee, who ordered to burn down the house of Ayşegül Bicer, the mother of Diyarbakır. Shame on you! It's not enough that you took his child, you'll burn his house down and bury him alive. Woe to you!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0727par0361	Woe to you!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0728par0362	Woe to you!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0729par0363	Congressman, I can't hear anything. I'll keep going until I hear it. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0730par0366	Nobody's sorry. We look at people, look at the results, see if the work we do, the decision we make, the struggle we make is right. FOR 18 years, the EC PARTY governments have wiped out hopelessness in Eastern and Southeast Anatolia, bringing abuse to the ground. Your mothers, children's dreams, fathers' honors. [[Noises from HDP rows, constant banging on rows]] Look, don't piss me off! Look, don't piss me off! The PKK terror organization went to villages, drove their husbands out of the house, raped women! Bastards, scoundrels! (AK PARTY places νeh! οf the voices, applauds; HP lines applauds; HDP rows noises, constantly knocking on rows) Bastards! Look, don't make me talk! Look, don't make me talk! We've built hospitals, roads, colleges, gyms, halls, schools, kindergartens, computer coding classes, youth centers, libraries, organised industrial sites, women's centers, ski resorts. Let the curious one take a look. I told you in the Commission about Hakari, go see. At 2,300 meters at the Pass of the Inns in Kars. Bülli did the double roads along with our President's orders. There are textile workshops in pain, shoe factories. Can I tell you what's going on in Haqkari, in just two years?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0731par0370	Finish your words, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0730par0371	Hakkari used to be a symbol of distance; our Hakkari was a city of festivals; the Snow Festival was held in Çukurca, Foto Safari, Reverse Tulip Festival, Natural Sports Festival, rafting contests in Hakkari. In one year, only municipalities traveled 21km in Hakari, and 32km in Turkey's southeastern province. 25 schools have been completed in two years across Hakkari. The steps of the organized industrial zone have been taken. You couldn't get the water out of the taps, so now we're running 24 hours, 24 hours. [[Noises from HDP rows, constant banging on rows]] We also brought some natural gas to Hakkari, and he subscribed 6,000 dwellings. I gave a Swiss example, but we took Hakkari's track up to 3,500 meters, and now, thank God, we're building a five-star hotel, Hakkari, five stars. [[AK PARTI places (Bravo) voices, applause; HHP lines applaud; HDP rows, constant banging on rows]] The angio center has been opened in Hakkari. Our Minister made 3,208 dwellings, Derecik and Susova. Again, let me put it this way, the first stage of the university is over, and 80 percent of the second stage is complete. And again, our Minister of Sports...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0732par0377	Congressman, I can't hear anything, I can't hear anything!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0730par0378	...and the swimming pools and the closed gyms are being built. (AK PARTI and MHP lines, voices, applause; noises from HDP rows, constantly knocking on rows) and again we have laid the foundations of the new subsidiary building, which will be built on Derecik. Ohhh, the money's not going to PKK, it's going to people, oh, oh! [[AK PARTI and MHP rows (Bravo) voices, applause; noise from HDP rows, constant knocking on rows]] Note, note: The municipalities we received from the trustees, 600 mayors, 73 mayors, were sentenced to six hundred ninety-four years and ten months in prison. Suck on that!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0732par0383	Mr. Secretary, your time is up. I'll give you one last minute to complete. One minute to open, last to open. [[Noises from HDP rows, constant banging on rows]] Go ahead and greet him, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0733par0386	Time's up, that's enough!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0734par0387	We don't hear it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0735par0388	Mr. President, we haven't heard.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0736par0389	What we're doing isn't just fighting terrorism. It's actually a struggle with all the arms of imperialism. This is a struggle for development. We didn't make this fight randomly. We have three hair legs in this struggle: First, peace and happiness of the people. Second, investment prosperity and development. The third is a reliable sense of the future for the people who live there. This philosophy has been targeted repeatedly by global forces and organizations from the West by the PKK/PYD, the DEAŞ, the DHKP-C, but they have not achieved anything. We fought against the nation's support against their attacks, the power of the state, our faith, and political determination; by the will of God, we succeeded, we succeeded. (HDP rows of noise, constantly knocking on rows) In Turkey...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0737par0390	We will save this country from you!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0736par0391	I'm saving you, you! This country is saving you, Recep Erdogan is saving you. (ARK PARTI places the voices, applause; the noise from HDP rows, banging on rows) landed on 320 terrorists and joined the organization at 5.558 in 2014, thank God today. We don't send our children to the mountains anymore, we don't send them anymore, we don't send them anymore.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0738par0393	Mr. Secretary, collect your words, and we'll greet you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0736par0394	Don't worry, one minute.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0738par0396	Thirty-six seconds to go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0736par0397	And through persuasion, just this year, it's nowhere in the world, through persuasion -- we're meeting with their families, 10,000 families -- about 230 terrorists only came this year and surrendered to justice. They did not trust the PKK, they trusted the government and the nation of the Republic of Turkey. (PARK PARTY APPLAUSE)
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0738par0399	Mr. Secretary, I'll take your greeting.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0736par0400	Let me tell you something else, Mr. President, I'm quitting. We see a 50-year-old account, they've sucked the blood out of this country for 50 years, and they've done their politics for 50 years! [[From the AK PARTY, the voices, the applause; the applause from MHP rows]] Don't worry, we won't leave the terror organization alone in their caves this winter, we have a surprise for them, we'll make them sweat their death, we won't give them a cold!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0738par0405	Minister, I'll take your last words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0736par0406	I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0738par0407	It's already over, Minister.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0736par0408	I'm finishing. If you'll excuse me, I'll tell you something about two minutes, two minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0738par0411	Okay, I'll open it, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0736par0412	I'll tell you one thing. Congressmans, this is a summary of the four-year struggle I've been in. It's an intelligence organization, a terrorist organization, but there's something important about it. We have a government tradition of 2,200 years, don't we? We've been through a lot. They've come to us, they've stepped on our heads, but the integrity of the backbone within the state has given us a new state, a new freedom, a new independence. They did one thing, and that's what they did: they took the backbone of the Republic of Turkey from inside it, and that's exactly what they wanted to do in the Balkans, Turkish states and Muslim states, and that's what they wanted to do, and that's what they wanted to do with Muslim geography, Turkish geography, and the geography around us. What they want to do is kneel before them. Let me say this: Thank God, they couldn't do it, and the backbone of the state is standing upright today. If you call me one day, in private, I'd like to tell you all about the structure of the secret military imam. Believe me, you'll lose your minds. Give me an hour and I'll tell you what kind of structure these men are in in Turkey. It's unbelievable. Of all the experiences I've had for four years, I've been terrified of myself.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0738par0415	Congressmans, don't shoot me anymore! Look, he's talking about the PKK; he's not talking about the PKK, he's talking about the ا; don't shoot him anymore.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0736par0417	Such an understanding... a dangerous organization that enters people's bedrooms, controls their bedrooms, designes every moment of their lives with a code. [[AK PARTI and MHP are applauding; HDP rows are noisy, constantly knocking on rows]] In my final words, Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0738par0420	Mr. Secretary, please wrap it up, you have 20 seconds.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0736par0421	I've got two pages left, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0739par0422	No, but no more!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0738par0423	Mr. Secretary, we've given them all, 20 seconds, please...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0736par0424	Mr. President, the precious lawmakers, the struggle of our civilization, our country's fight against terrorism, the struggle to bring peace and stability to its territory, the struggle to establish the powerful Turkey of tomorrow, will hopefully drain the seeds of the fitness that imperialism has been trying to sow for the world and especially our geography for years.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0738par0427	Minister, please complete. One minute, I won't open it again, Minister, it's over.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0736par0428	The sun of our civilization, as in history, will again shine on all mankind in this ancient geography. The struggle for the state we've given today will not only be the honor and pride of our fair nation, but also the barrier of humanity.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0738par0430	Guys, I have a headache, please! Oh, my head hurts!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0736par0431	We won't have a headache, we'll shut them up, we'll shut them up, we'll cut them off! [[AK PARTI and MHP rows (Bravo) voices, applause; noise from HDP rows, constant knocking on rows]] Turkey has a lot of work to do, our nation has a lot to do, and our President has a lot to do under the leadership of the Cumhur Alliance. May God not disgrace us to our nation, to our civilization, to the historical heritage left to us. [[Noises from HDP rows, constant banging on rows]] I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit07spe0740par0437	Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0740par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. The commission is in place. Now, on behalf of the person, the last speaker is against you, Mr. Servet Ünal.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0741par0005	Mr. President, I want word on the taunts.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0740par0006	Sir, you know, the session is closed, so I can't promise not to tease you because it's closed, but I've called the speaker to the stand, and then I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0742par0008	I want a say in this.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0741par0009	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0743par0010	Mr. President, the Deputy Director of the Group is standing...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0744par0011	Sir, I'll give you my word on their location. Mr. Servet, you make your speech, and I'll make a promise.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0743par0013	Okay, after Servet Bey, okay.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0745par0014	Mr. President, they didn't let Mr. Secretary talk.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0744par0015	There's no way I can promise anything from the podium; I didn't hear anything, I need to ask for the transcripts.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0746par0016	Then ask for it.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0744par0017	Here you go, Mr. Unisal.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0747par0019	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, the Minister's friends are here, and I salute you all with love and respect. I begin with the signs of Ibn Haldun, who lived in the 14th century, that would lead to the downfall of a society. Let us hear from Haldun the Ibn. If solidarity goes away, if the country goes camping, if the production goes down, if the consumption goes up, if the taxes go up, if the taxes go up, if the justice goes down, if the vanity and hypocrisy and flattery go up, if the managers get some sort of demonic pride and arrogance, if the hopes are finally broken, that society is about to collapse.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0748par0021	Like the CHP.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0749par0022	Then there was no CHP, he'd have said that too, Ibn Haldun.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0747par0024	Dear friends, I don't know if these omens remind you of anything, but as the last speaker of this very tense gathering, I wish you all the days of love, peace, friendship, beauty, I wish you all not to have these. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, everyone has crossed the line of endurance, but Parliament is no place for this. You all have to put up with each other, because if that ceiling collapses, we'll all be under it, and we need democracy for it, and it goes through tolerance. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Well, folks, you've already got a document in front of you all in the budget; what does it say? We have a 245 billion deficit. Until the end of the year, it's 345 billion because the vault is empty, friends, the central bank's net reserve is minus 61 billion dollars; minus, minus this is not plus. We're looking at a citizen's bank loan, 830 billion friends! This country belongs to all of us. The SMEs owe 865 billion. The amount of credit in pursuit, my friends, found 300 billion in pursuit. Now do you understand the state of the citizen? You're in power...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0750par0029	You're lying!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0747par0030	It's obvious who's lying.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0750par0031	You say it!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0751par0032	Congressmans, please, let's not quibble.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0747par0033	When you came to power -- that was a lie -- that was $1.67.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0750par0034	Lies!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0751par0035	Friends, last speaker, please, please...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0747par0036	The son-in-law minister arrived, he was $8.5; today, the dollar is in the 8th. So, guys, you see what the economy's become? Now, of course, the economy is up to you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0752par0038	The king is up.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0747par0039	But in a country that owes 1 trillion 860 billion dollars, it's the only way the economy will survive!) (HPP applause in turn) That's how the economy works, my friends! So let's not fool each other. But the government is still prettier than Sweden... yesterday, Dear Varank, the Minister of Industry said: "We have passed Germany in steel production." I'm surprised we've passed Germany. I'm glad, but I don't believe it's true. We look at the country, we're all in society, we're all in Anatolia. Friends, how's the worker? Ruined. How's the tradesman? Ruined. How's the peasant? He's miserable, too. The farmer's tractor is being performed. I'm speaking to the paramedics as a doctor, Aha, the health workers! Yeah, see, all of your kids are one of them. See, fellas! (CHP turns to applause) That's what health workers are like during the corona period! Guys, come on! But it's a shame, it's a sin! With all this going on, the EYT people are miserable, we call them 3600 additional indicators, and there's still nothing there. It is shameful, it is sinful, it is a great loss to the people. Of course, we'll help whoever needs help, but let's think about our own citizens, guys. What are we doing in a country where we are so hungry, go to Tunisia, give $5 million, go to Somalia, pay $3.5 million in IMF debt? It's a shame, it's a shame! Men of our society, where are the wretched?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0753par0043	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0747par0044	Dear friends, we're looking at the budget, we're all in it. You don't need anything, a budget for education? No. Is there health in the budget? Our dear Minister is here.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0754par0045	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0747par0046	I'll get to that in a minute. I'm looking at the outlines, I'm looking at the big picture, and I'll be back to health in a minute. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Any progress? Where's the development, where is it? Yes, is anything being done for the public? If it's done, where's all the misery, fellas? Yeah, there's no budget to talk about. I remember the late Orhan Veli. Do you know what Orhan Veli said, where there's so much misery?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0755par0050	Guys, please...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0747par0051	▪ Hole in the pocket, hole in the pocket, Arm holes, minor punctures, It's a hole in the green, it's a hole in the robe, Yeah, the budget's a mess. This is the budget, the do-and-do budget. This budget is the boss budget, the runt budget, the loot budget, the lie budget, the support budget; as dear Kilicdaroglu said, they are friends of the Haramzade budget.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0756par0056	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0747par0057	Mr. President, thank you. We're almost there. Guys, is there a 180 billion deficit in the budget? Yes, you all know it. Get these 180 billion right in front of you. How many people are in the country? 83 million. Do you know what happens when we divide the $180 billion deficit, interest, interest, to 83 million per person, children, every day? ZULFU DEVIL (Elaziğü) will drop 3,000 liras... Six liras a day goes down. In a family of five, 30 lira a month goes down, and at $900 a year, the money goes up, and we look at it from behind, 180 billion interest. Well, folks, we've given you this main picture -- our dear Minister is here -- let's move on to the corona. I've been speaking here for months about corona, I've had press conferences, I've been in the media, I don't know who's been giving him information, my dear friends, our beloved Minister, but I've been getting the death toll from the cemetery office for ten months, ten months. Listen carefully; the best news gets out of the cemetery, my friend, whatever you say!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0757par0062	Take it from the dead, the dead!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0747par0063	Yes, I have something very important to tell you! Look, this is a document from our Ministry of Health. I don't know, I'll give it to the Minister of Health. December 9, 2020, my friends, the number of patients recovering, the number of tests done; it's all written down. One thing has come to my attention, dear Minister, I think you can warn your staff that the number of patients is 558,517 on December 9th; we arrived at December 10th -- one day later, one day later -- friends, one day later, 1 million 718, 567.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0758par0065	Yes, thank you, Mr. Unisal. Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0747par0067	Ladies and gentlemen, is the number of patients that high with the number of cases?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0759par0068	The patient is different, the case is different.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0747par0069	One day, one day, one day. One more thing, Minister.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0759par0070	The patient and the case are not the same.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0760par0071	That's the case, the number of cases, the case.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0761par0072	That's the case count.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0762par0073	I'll give them to you. December 11, 2020, my dear friends, the recovery rate is 458,109.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0763par0075	Who'd you get the news from, the cemetery? Did you get the information from the cemetery?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0762par0076	Friends, one day later, on December 12th -- we've probably cured a lot of patients -- 1,581,565, which is over 1 million patients getting better in one day.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0764par0077	My dear Doctor, read that painting well, the number of cases...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0765par0078	Don't confuse the number of cases with the number of patients.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0762par0079	I swear, your dear Minister...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0766par0081	Guys, excuse me, please. Yes, Mr. Minister has a request for a word, and I'll give it to him now, if you'll excuse him.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0762par0083	You know what your teacher said? As a health memorial was being opened in Copperville, my dear Minister was my student, and I was unable to teach him the number of cases and the number of patients. I swear, Mr. Secretary, I'm telling you what your teacher said, I'm not saying anything. If you guys think of something interesting...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0767par0084	What about you, the Adana field hospital?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0766par0085	Friends, please excuse me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0767par0086	Adana field hospital, beauty center, beauty fair.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0768par0087	Elızlı, sit near the door, get out of there! You stay close to the door, what are you doing here?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0766par0089	Yes, Mr. Unisal, thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0768par0090	For months, look, even today, my dear friends, my dear brothers, the spear didn't fit in the sack. All of a sudden...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0766par0091	Mr. Ünsal, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0768par0092	Okay, Mr. President, I need a minute.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0766par0093	I gave, I gave, I gave a lot.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0768par0094	You've given everyone ten minutes. I'm not leaving.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0766par0096	But okay, I'll open it for you in one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0768par0098	Dear friends, one last minute. When the spear didn't fit in the sack, we couldn't hide the facts; we became number one in Europe, third in the world.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0766par0100	I opened it for hailing, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0768par0101	Yeah, my dear friends, dying paramedics, I'm just... I'm just doing stuff, guys. 239 people have died and died so far; 90 of them are doctors. (CHP) Dear Minister, you're not against it either, but the fact that it counts as occupational illness... why don't we do it, why don't we count it?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0766par0102	Mr. Ünsal, look, you won't be able to greet me in a moment.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0769par0103	Hodja, bow, hodja!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0768par0104	You can't even make 90 people out of the money you're going to give to one contractor. Dear friends, I cherish all the medics. We're short-staffed, 620,000 people, make an appointment. Paramedics are failing, of course, and they're all troubled. There's a saying I've made, and I'm telling you from here to the Minister, city hospitals are a mess. Think about it, 16 billion, $392 million in city hospitals will be paid this year. City hospitals are bad for your health.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0770par0107	Thank you, Mr. Unisal.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0768par0108	Let me read my last poem, it's over.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0770par0109	You read it, it's on the record.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0768par0110	It's over, it's over.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0770par0111	Read it.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0768par0112	Mr. President, I'm reading a poem and finishing it.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0770par0113	Read the poem.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0768par0114	As I finish my words...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0770par0115	Well, let's open it up and let the poetry be on the record, stenographers. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0768par0118	As I finish my words, I have a recommendation to our people, dear Minister of Health, especially in the interest of health: I say, "My people, you will bow before those who are willing to die giving you a fatwa, not those who have saved a fortune, but those who are willing to die giving you health. " Thank you all for listening to me, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0770par0121	Thank you. Mr. Minister of Health Fahrettin, there's a request for a statement at the location of the husband. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0771par0124	I don't want a word, I don't want one.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0770par0125	I've got it all wrong. Okay.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0772par0126	He doesn't want a word, you're making him promise!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0773par0127	That's what happens when you're biased, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0770par0128	No, he didn't, but I misunderstood. I can't hear it over the noise.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0774par0129	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0770par0130	Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0774par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, we just watched a show here. Every year, the Home Secretary comes here and does the same show in this House. The reason he's doing this show is because he's taking positions over us by continuing his power struggle. That's why he's doing this show. Now, look, first of all, the People's Democratic Party Group and MPs represent 6.5 million voters and nearly 20 million people, including the Kurdish people, as representatives of Turkish democratic forces. Interior Minister Soylu has just called the Kurdish people here and the Turkish democratic forces above us.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0775par0137	That's a lie, a lie! Where's he making it up?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0776par0138	He called it a terrorist organization, a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0777par0139	Not the Kurdish people, you're still exploiting them!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0778par0140	We return this to you 20 million times, 20 million times, and I give you the exact same word!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0776par0142	He told the terrorists, are you a terrorist?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0779par0143	He said to the PKK, to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0778par0144	That's the first one. Second, look, we're honor, honor, truth, democracy, freedom, law, justice...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0780par0146	You?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0778par0147	We're fighting for peace, freedom.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0780par0149	Get out of here!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0778par0150	We're fighting for democracy.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0781par0152	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0782par0153	Pass them, pass them.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0783par0154	Pass them.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0784par0155	You're a Kurdish enemy, you're an insult to the Kurdish people.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0785par0157	Boo! Boo!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0786par0158	PKK hostility, not Kurds.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0784par0159	You're fighting against the law. Injustice, inequality is your main job. You've talked about everything here, you've talked about everything...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0787par0160	When you spoke of the PKK, you stood up.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0784par0161	You haven't said a word about law and democracy. Why?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0787par0162	You didn't say anything for 20 minutes, you stood up for 15 minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0784par0163	Because you're against the law.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0788par0165	We are enemies to the PKK, to the PKK!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0787par0166	When you heard the PKK, you stood up.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0784par0167	Because you are the enemy of democracy, very clearly.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0787par0168	Did you have enough heart to look at the pictures? Mr. Beştaş, did you have enough heart to take care of them?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0784par0169	Because you represent inequality, persecution, abolition of the will of the Kurdish people, corruption, corruption of the trustees, so you can't talk about law and democracy.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0787par0171	He was there. Did you get a look at the photos? Is your heart enough, your conscience enough?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0789par0172	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0784par0173	Now, let's say again, this Parliament is not the showroom of your struggle to gain position within the ruling, ruling bloc!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0787par0175	Not at all.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0784par0176	Opposition parties here are not the tools of your struggle to gain power and to replace the people you called earlier. For this reason, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, on behalf of their party, we return to you all the insults, all the inhuman remarks you've made on behalf of your constituents, and we don't take anything you say seriously.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0790par0178	PKK lover!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0787par0179	Get 'em, get 'em!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0791par0180	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0792par0181	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0791par0182	I haven't seen him, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0793par0183	Minister, you won't be here in the next budget, Mr. Demirtaş will be here; you can't go to the box for him.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0794par0184	I pity you!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0795par0185	When you talk about PKK, terror, you jump up.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0796par0186	Those without a conscience can't teach a lesson in conscience!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0797par0188	Friends, I have promised Mr. Altay, allow me. Mr. Altay, please come in.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0798par0191	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, let me tell you, Mr. Secretary, that the fight against Covid-19 is a medical foot. I told you about that from the beginning, when you started with very good intentions, I don't think the fact that Mr. President's over-interference has made you and the paramedics and the Science Council difficult hasn't changed. However, you remember here the health workers, the martyrs, and we thank you with mercy. We need to deal with the demands of our living, struggling health workers to consider Covid-19 a professional illness, to consider our health workers as martyrs. And there's a lot of highly trained technicians, paramedics, people waiting for work. You're here as three members of the government, you're giving numbers, we've flown Turkey. In order to protect existing health workers, you have to make new purchases to relieve their burden. Let's cut them off from other places, lower their parliamentary salaries, but let's get health technicians in the system, and I'm asking you to do that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Second of all, Mr. Minister, why don't you say, "Why don't you build a city hospital?" We don't say, "Why don't you do it?"
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0799par0197	The city hospitals are harmful. He just said, "Your deputy."
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0800par0198	Congressmans, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0798par0199	Sir, it's not harmful; it's useful, it's useful. I'm talking. Why have you increased the number of nursing beds? We do not say that they did not.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0800par0202	Congressmans, please... Mr. Altay, go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0798par0204	But whatever you do, you will undoubtedly be transparent when you exercise executive authority. That's what we're asking because the money you're using is people's money. Yeah, you're doing a good job, but if you're doing a good job, I'll know how much it costs, because why? It's a well-known case where Mr. President has made state affairs in Turkey -- assets of five, I've now made it 5+2, hopefully not 3 -- to a certain group of contractors. Do it, do it, and I need to know the money for it, and I want you to do it; can you say no? You can't. So we have to do something about it. And Mr. Secretary, I've said a lot of times, the government doesn't lie, don't give any information, don't say why you won't...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0800par0207	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0798par0208	...it's a strategic issue, there's another reason, it's national security, but if we're giving people information, we'll give them the right information. The number of cases between June and November-December has been increased five times, yes, there is an increase in the world, but five times that in Turkey is also related to the lack of information that you have given us in the past. Let's just say that 125 people in the 584-member Parliament have faced the case of Covid-19, it's critical, it's 20 percent. Thus, with you as the flagmaker of the battle against Covid-19, this challenge is a battle that 83 million will win together. We're ready to contribute to communication and dialogue on this subject, and I'll tell you that first. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, how long will you tolerate me?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0800par0211	As long as you want.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0801par0212	Until morning, until morning.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0802par0213	Do you have anything to say?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0803par0214	Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0804par0215	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0803par0216	Now, dear friends, the Clave is nervous...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0805par0217	Mr. President, tell Imamoglu to get the buses out of the garage.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0806par0218	Listen, brother!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0807par0219	What a disrespectful man you are!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0808par0220	Mr. Altay, go ahead. Mr. Sancar, this is Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0809par0222	I just want to say that the House is tense, and I think our Home Secretary is nervous about the House.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0810par0223	Do you have anything to say?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0809par0224	Wait, don't jump in the pot before the meat.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0811par0225	Guys, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Altay is not saying anything.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0809par0226	If we're here, Mr. Secretary, I'd be sorry to hear that I'm one of those who says, "God will not touch your feet in the fight against terror by the government, our heroic Turkish Armed Forces, our police, our gendarme."
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0811par0229	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0809par0230	And if we're in Turkey, it's going to upset me: I support a government -- I told you today -- to be strict in the fight against terrorism, but in the fight against terrorism, being outside the law works for terrorist organizations, and I've always said that. Besides, I had to repeat a phrase from me again: no claim demand can justify terrorism, nor will it give the terrorist innocence, but...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0812par0231	Wow!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0813par0232	Tell me next door, Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0809par0233	I was going to say something really heavy, but he said, wow!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0814par0234	Dear friends, look, you're doing nothing but prolonging the business right now, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0809par0235	I'm one of those people who advocates that no security concerns can justify fundamental rights and freedoms. I will come to this: the fight against PKK's terrorist organization has been Turkey's problem for many years -- was it the first attack in 1983?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0814par0238	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0809par0239	I - I know that -- and I know that our hero Mehmet-chik, fought on the mountain, then gave water to the member of the terrorist organization he wounded, and healed him. So I have to say, I can't give up this strategy -- from those days -- and stop being so humane, and tell the elected representatives of the nation that I can't justify the insult here, I have to say this.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0815par0241	What an insult!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0809par0242	Mr. Secretary, on this occasion... You're obviously very uncomfortable, but there's nothing to be done.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0816par0244	Shall we give them water, Mr. Engin?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0809par0245	Mr. Secretary, I'm going to make a statement regarding our police department, Mr. President, and I'm going to address an important matter, if you don't mind my saying so. The Minister needs to hear this. Dude, get that autograph later! Brother...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0816par0248	Should we give the HDP people water?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0817par0249	I'll open it one last time, come on, I'll open it.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0809par0250	Minister, I'd like you to listen to this and it's over.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0817par0252	Excuse me, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0809par0253	Again there will be a saying for me, and again there will be a saying for me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0818par0254	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0817par0255	Mr. Çelebi, what should I do? You're going to get some air.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0809par0256	I'll have you here in the morning! I'll have you here in the morning! You'll have morning tomorrow, I swear.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0817par0257	Yes, Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0809par0258	Hey, listen up!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0819par0259	We pray together in the morning.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0809par0260	Well, morning it is. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] I will, brother. Mr. Secretary used an extension of 20 minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0820par0263	Mr. Altay, complete, please, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0809par0264	Mr. Secretary, you are the head of our police force. Turkish police are not afraid of martyrdom, Turkish police are afraid of retiring, retiring. (Cheers and applause) We'd like this 3600. And one more thing: now, some busybody in our police department... for example, if there was an insult to Cahit Ozkan from Twitter and Cahit Özkan...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0821par0266	You made fun of me.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0809par0267	I'm not kidding. Even if he complains, the police won't go to the house of the person who insulted Cahit Özkan.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0822par0270	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0809par0271	Because it's been too long for me. The police didn't go to the house of the person who insulted me, but this is wrong: you robbed Fahrettin Altun. The 80-year-old must not go to his house at night!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0823par0273	Mr. President, that's not true.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0809par0274	If so, the president of Turkey's second largest party must be visited by police by the mobster who threatened both social media and death. If you do this, we'll say right, law, justice point: Turkish police, Turkish national police. We don't want to say that the Turkish police are the police of the palace. That would be unfair to our police department. It's also my duty to give such a little warning.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0824par0276	Mr. Altay, last words, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0809par0277	Last word: ask for 29 civilian martyrs, that's your job.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0825par0278	It's nobody's place to say something like that.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0809par0279	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0826par0280	But you insulted the police.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0825par0281	How much money does the father of a cop martyr get...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0827par0282	Guys, I'm asking you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0828par0283	But ask the people who were killed in Beşiktas on July 15th, don't keep the money collected for our citizens any more, give it to the people, give this money to the people, this is your duty as government. Well, I don't want to take up any more of the General Assembly's time. Mr. Secretary, once again, I'll tell you this...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0829par0285	Talk till morning.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0828par0286	I'll talk to him if I have to. Last words: Look, people from Covidden are breaking down; 3.5 million blocks of money in the bank in Ankara's capital city account, and 4 million in Istanbul. Remove this block as well, Mr. Ministers; what harm is there in this, if these coins go to the nation in excess, as bread, as masks, as food, as rations, as cash? I'm curious about that, too. [[Applause from CHP rows]] 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Health Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account CIRKEY MEDICINE AND TIBI TERRIBLE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices' Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Board Final Account for Central Management in 2019 THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITUTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The Interior Ministry's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) Police General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account JANDARMA GENIAL COMMUNITY [[Continue]] 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Gendarme General Command 2019 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Coast Guard Command 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Central Management Budget for 2021 2) General Directorate of Migration Administration 2019 Central Management Final Account E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister for Disaster and Emergency Management 2019 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0830par0333	Congressmans, the talks on the fifth round are complete.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0831par0334	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0832par0335	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0830par0336	Now, let's move on to the question-answer process.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0832par0337	Mr. President, I have the right to answer.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0830par0338	You don't have an answer, where do you have one?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0832par0339	Yes, I have the right to answer.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0830par0340	No, he's supposed to be in session according to 69, Mr. Gergerlioglu. You lost that right because you weren't in the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0832par0341	Why don't you want to give it to me? You're spreading everyone's word, why don't you promise me? You're taking everyone's word for it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0830par0342	Yeah, I'm starting the QA process.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0832par0343	Don't deny me my say, Mr. President!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0830par0344	Mr. Fendoglu, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0832par0345	You're giving me the benefit of the doubt.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0830par0346	Mr. Gergerlioglu, you have no say, please take your seat.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0832par0347	You're giving me the benefit of the doubt!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0830par0348	No.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0832par0349	You're being unfair!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0830par0350	Dear lawmakers, their time to ask questions is 40 seconds, so plan your questions accordingly. Mr. Fendoglu, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0833par0352	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to our Home Secretary: Thank you on behalf of our Malatian citizens, who supported our Malatya in 2018, from the introduction of our Special Operations Regional Chairman to the project. Minister, with your support, will you announce a calendar and date for the launch of the construction of our Malatian Special Operations Regional Chairman, whose entire project has been completed? My second question: our security guards are fighting with our soldiers and police to defend their country. He has his demands to deliver them to you. Does your Ministry work to improve the salaries of our security guards and regulate pension rights?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0834par0356	Mr. Butcher...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0835par0357	Madam Secretary, my colleague, you have accepted the health workers and the deceased as martyrs, and I thank you for that as a physician. Please convince the Minister of the Family to agree to a bond of health, and it will immediately involve occupational illness, occupational hazard. Madam Secretary, my colleague, thank you for your level and polite approach.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0834par0359	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0836par0360	Thank you, Mr. President. It is as if he has killed all mankind that kills a man, and given life to all mankind that sustains a man. With mercy, I remember all our sacrifices, who still add their nights to their day, who have sacrificed our people and our state to keep them alive. I want to thank our ministers and deputies who have re-enlisted the realities that the whole world and all of our citizens have seen and known, and I wish our budget to be good, and God bless everyone who's gone through it. And with them is mercy, and a punishment in dissension.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0837par0363	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0838par0364	Thank you, Mr. President. My questions will be for our Minister of Health and the Home Secretary. Mr. Health Minister, how many new jobs have you provided as Health Department this year? Doctor, pharmacist, dentist, nurse major, what's the distribution? Mr. Home Secretary, what benefits will the electronic identification system, which has recently been implemented by the General Directorate of Population and Citizenship Affairs, provide? What are the services of the Foreign Communication Centre, which operates within the General Directorate of the Immigration Administration? What is the status of technology and modernisation in the National Directorate for Population and Citizenship? Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0839par0371	Dear Brave...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0840par0372	Mr. Minister, in the ad for 12,000 contracted medical personnel, there has been very little staff for dental alumni, home care technicians, dialysis technicians, dieticians. At least 100,000 nurses have to be appointed, and it's very necessary for the filament. What do you think about that? The World Health Organization warns that the health system may collapse in Turkey. Do you plan to open the Refik Saydam Institute of Hifzishahah? Can you explain how many people in Turkey have been used to end transparency debates so far? Other than that, I'd like to ask Mr. Home Secretary for a driver's license. Mr. Minister of the Environment, our Bendir is building every day, and the bottom cleaning has begun, but it's very inadequate. It's a large...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0841par0378	Lightning...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0842par0379	Mr. President, my question is to our Minister of Environment and Urbanism. Minister, the end of December is coming. Public contractors are losing sleep. In particular, municipal employees will be out of business if the mayors and city council do not renew their contracts by the evening of December 31st. The municipalities are political institutions; in the same way, many of our employees who took office under the subcontractor's law were removed from municipalities for political reasons, such as Adana, Mersin, Ankara, İstanbul, Antalya. Although they have received a extradition order from the courts, the mayors do not return them to work. On the court order of the Republic of Turkey, the mayors...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0841par0382	Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0843par0383	Thank you, Minister. I pray to God for the good financial budgets of our current Health, Environment and Urbanism and Interior Ministrys for the 2021 fiscal year. My question will be to our Minister of the Interior, Mr. Süleyman Noble. Mr. Minister, can you give us any information regarding the struggles against the military coup attempt to implement political, economic and social order by the ringleader, which has left the world's other terrorist organization structures, such as allowing every method for infiltration of states?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0844par0386	Mr. Yüksel Özkan...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0845par0387	Thank you. Minister, you've studied medicine. I think you're stuck between politics and your medical ethics during the Covid-19 outbreak, which you question on your conscience every day. Are you going to explain the meeting transcripts of the Science Board's decisions? I filed 14 questions during the outbreak, but there was no answer. In the 40 seconds I've been given, which one of these can I ask again? Please announce the screams of our children from SMA. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I've submitted an offer on this matter. Let's bring it up and accept it. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0846par0391	Mr. Nice...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0847par0392	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister of Health: thousands of anesthesiologists, dieticians, medical secretary with no public appointment are watching this House. Ninety percent of the dieticians who graduated from universities are unemployed. When obesity and nutritional problems are increasing rapidly in the world and in the country, and the public needs this much nutritionist, why are the previous appointments not made? Again, why don't there be appointments when medical secretaries and anesthesiologists are needed in the challenging conditions of the pandemic? Do you plan to take steps to address the victims of both the people and those who are unemployed in this area?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0848par0395	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0849par0396	Mr. Health Minister, Hunters Murat Köluk has died in May due to Covid, General Surgery Specialist Ugur Ertuğrul at Köluk State Hospital. His widow, a nurse, says there's been a cut of $2,000 on her orphan's salary. Do you intend to convince the Minister of Labor to accept occupational illness without a need for illness for health workers? So far, 18 billion people have been paid for city hospitals, 20 billion in the last two months, and 60 billion in the next three years. We've been able to build 60,000-bed state hospitals with this, but so far...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0850par0400	Dear Cora...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0851par0401	Thank you, Mr. President. We especially thank our Minister of Health, Minister of Environment and Urbanism, and our Home Secretary for their extensive presentations. My question to our Home Secretary: Mr. Minister, the Ministry of the Interior, which demonstrates efforts to keep citizen satisfaction at the highest level in its areas of duty and responsibility, has made it a brand of work to increase its level of satisfaction by taking into account technological improvements. What are the brand projects created in this scope? Our citizen's...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0852par0405	Mr. Önal...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0853par0406	Thank you, Mr. President. During the pandemic period, all of our health workers are struggling with superhuman effort, almost making history. However, not enough steps have been taken so far to meet the basic demands of all our health workers, who have disregarded their own life and worked hard for public health. Mr. Secretary, when are you going to give all our healthcare workers their rights to pay raises, return capital increases, and 3,600 additional indicators? Are you going to start a study to get Covid-19 taken into the category of occupational illness? Will you consider our health workers who died from Covid-19 a martyr and take care of their remaining families? Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0854par0410	Your Grace, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0855par0411	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Home Secretary: We know your efforts with regard to the 3600 additional indicators of our heroic Turkish police, and what are your plans for this matter after that? Second, will there be an arrangement for our heroic firefighters? And finally: our rangers' salaries remain low, will there be an arrangement for that? I wish all three of our ministries, Internal Affairs, Environment and Urbanism, and the health department's budgets, to be a blessing. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0856par0417	Mr. Orhan Light...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0857par0418	Thank you, Mr. President. Do non-English citizens and refugees receive interpreter support during the presentation of health care? Will you make an attempt to repair these shortcomings? My question to the Minister of Environment is: What is the reason they haven't been given a CED report for HES in Zilan Creek? Why was the court's decision not considered? Why was the decision of the prosecutor's decision to bring publicisation in a hurry? HOW will the natural destruction and the harm of the people be determined, and how will it be repaired?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0858par0423	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0859par0424	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Home Secretary, under the basic principles set by our President, our country has achieved very successful results in the fight against terrorism. Because today, the number of domestic terrorists has been reduced to 320, and participation in the terrorist organization has been reduced to the lowest level of history. With this result revealed, no doubt, the main factor is that all of our interior ministry's personnel are on the ground 24/7. Given such positive developments, what is your goal to the PKK's terrorist organization in 2021? I wish our ministry's 2021 budgets to be well-funded, fruitful, thank you, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0860par0427	The question has been completed. We're moving on to the answers. Mr. Fahrettin Husband, Minister of Health.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0861par0430	Mr. President, our friend just, again, took a different approach, especially regarding the purchases. I'd expect him to thank me and give up what he said on August 16th when he saw that the repayment had been paid back in eight days after the tender on July 19th. Politics must be used as a means of giving information to citizens for 83 million.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0862par0431	You didn't do that.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0861par0432	And after 2015, I'd say e-nap was established, and I'd say there's not a penny or a dollar billing involved. Is it right for you to still argue at this point? Why don't we give our citizen the right information? Why don't we use politics as a means of giving accurate information to our citizens? So far, 20 million kits have been purchased. The population, which normally has to be paid $1,750 billion, has been given 250 million, so 1.5 billion, our citizens have taken advantage of it. Why aren't you happy? Why don't you say thank you?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0863par0434	Why didn't you do it before we brought it up? Why don't you just buy it? That's what we're asking.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0861par0435	There's been talk of international arbitration regarding city hospitals. I'll tell you about the investigation: if it's between the company and the administration, it'll be solved in domestic and Turkish courts. The discrepancy of the investigation is a matter of creditors who are on the side of financing, in which case it is international inquiry, but it is resolved by the implementation of Turkish law in international arbitration.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0864par0437	Mr. Secretary, thank you, four minutes are up.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0865par0438	It's not full. Two more minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0864par0439	Madam Secretary, I'm sorry you have two more minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0866par0440	In international investigation, Turkish law is being solved. I want to underline that in particular. Other than that, there was talk of medical equipment, medical supplies payment. As of yesterday, these payments have begun. If the SUT price has been bought off, it has started since yesterday, without any discounts being paid over STUT. I want to say that in particular. We have taken 73,527 staff in total this year, 41,194 of which are non-medical medical personnel; we are also taking 12,000 staff now, and we will continue to buy for 2021. Regarding the flu vaccine: A total of 2,300,000 doses were taken, 1 million and 36,000 doses have been used so far, while our health workers have received 600,000, which means they are still being given flu shots. In that sense, I'd like to say that there's nothing wrong. So far, there's been no more influanza in Turkey. And I don't think we should make our citizens nervous about it. Mr. President, let's answer the rest in writing. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0867par0446	Thank you. Mr. Institution, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0868par0448	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, our work on both our lakes in Turkey, our natural areas, our protected areas, where we can increase the number and quantity. On the other hand, we have actually started cleaning lakes in Beyşehir, Eğirdır, Lake Basin Lakes. And hopefully, until we can restore those lakes, we're going to conduct these studies, and we're going to take steps, and we're going to leave them to our citizens, to be cleaner, to be more beautiful, to be respectful of nature, to the environment. On the other hand, the lawsuit against Van Province Zilan Creek is under way. It was issued in 2015, and during that time, the decision was made that would not be necessary, and the court process is under way. There's a court order against subcontractors working in our municipalities -- these are the ones -- to extradite those who have been fired, and if that's not applied by the municipality concerned, then we'll have those meetings with the municipalities, hopefully, as well. I thank all my colleagues, my colleagues, our mayors, our lawmakers, who struggle with us day and night in our cities, again, and wish our budget to our country, to our country, to our country.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0869par0454	Mr. Noble, please come in.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0870par0455	Yes, thank you. Mr. Altay, we need to fix one more thing.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0871par0457	I hope so.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0870par0458	So from here, in everyday matters, on behalf of Congress, of course, the temperature of the issue here, the desire to take a step ahead of the discussion...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0871par0459	You had that a lot today.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0870par0460	Don't mention it. Wait a second... Now, the matter of the Fahrettin Altun (of Job) was explained yesterday by our friends, or... yes, yesterday. He's been sent home with a notice. That's the way it is in this business, that's the way it is with all of them. He's come, he's invited...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0871par0462	Why don't we send notices to those who blaspheme?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0870par0463	Wait a second... Job was invited, and Job testified at the police headquarters, and went home. It's not like the police went and picked him up in the middle of the night; it's one.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0871par0465	I didn't say he did, he went home. I said he did.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0872par0466	Just hear me out!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0873par0467	He did. You said he did.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0874par0468	Look, the notice... I'll say it again, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0873par0469	He did. You said he did.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0875par0470	I didn't.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0876par0472	Friends, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Secretary is responding.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0877par0473	My file says I told you in front of me, and I'd like to make one more matter right in front of you.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0876par0474	Mr. Özkaya...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0877par0475	You said here again, they said that $121 was tied to the monthly family of martyrs. They even said that Mr. Kilicdaroglu -- perhaps he slipped -- in a speech, he was a police officer. Is that right?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0878par0476	Yeah, if you're skittling. The father of the police, yes, that's right.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0877par0477	Now, one, we pay $6,150 a month to the families of our fallen police. We also give additional additions to their parents, especially to their families, to their children, and to their parents - one. Two, especially the concept of a civilian martyr, is a concept that came out of the direction of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and again of the will of this House, at the time of the AK PARTI governments. There was no such concept. You know it, we know it.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0878par0479	Correction, the House will not be instructed. The House will not be instructed.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0879par0480	He said it was the will of the people, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0877par0481	No, with the House's contributions. Look, you're wrong, I wouldn't say anything like that, I'd be ashamed, I'd be ashamed. It's not an order to the House.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0878par0482	You said it by order of the President.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0877par0483	He left with our President's instructions and the Council's contribution to prepare for our friends, and it's over.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0878par0484	Yeah, okay.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0877par0485	Three, that's the ruling party's march. The money paid to civilian martyrs here is $1,467, and we know that for example, it comes from Sinop, right? You know it, I know it. Look, widow, parents and two children, $1,467 divided into all of these. Look, nothing else is possible, wrong again.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0878par0487	You gave me a document, Mr. Secretary, don't do it!
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0877par0488	I've done the Ministry of Labor, if you like your God! That's what I know, $1,467. I'll tell you something else, let this House know that martyrs are our crown and veterans are our crown. Mr. President has a direct order for us. I see this work as a service, not an instruction, but I consider what I do as a service. Mr. Altay, let Parliament know, you all know in your provinces, that we have to fulfill every word they say about their families of martyrs, and we bring them in, everyone knows that. And I have friends again. Every 15 days, every month... look, I'm making a bold statement, that we haven't been able to reach Solomon Nobleman, the Minister of the Interior. Look, hundreds and thousands of... I'm telling you one more thing, we're in charge of everything that's out of these scales, period. And we're doing everything we can. We, Mehmet Ersoy, are here, Reverend - all of our friends are interested, from the foundation about them to their addresses every month, or rather their accounts.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0880par0492	Mr. Secretary, civilian martyrs are being paid $33,000, and our police martyrs are paid $70,000 in compensation, cash compensation.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0881par0493	Madam Secretary, thank you. You answer the others in writing.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0877par0494	There's something important, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0881par0495	But, Minister...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0877par0496	There's something said about the graveyards, I have to say.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0881par0497	Mr. Secretary, the answer time is over, but I promise to explain your position for a minute. Press the thing, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0877par0498	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0881par0499	Hit the mic again. One moment, please.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0877par0501	One: I'll come to the Kurdish government issue. No one in this country was sent to prison for studying Kurdish. That's not what this is about, and that's a lie. A full week after the lie you told, I joined the presence of the people who died from a bomb on the other side of Mardin, where Arabic was read, and Kurdish was read, and I listened as Minister of the Interior. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) That's out of the question. Again, as you mentioned in the tombs, this happened. True, he brought in a terrorist organization, buried more than 270 terrorists somewhere. Excuse me, is this how you bury your funerals? No name, no last name, no one knows what. This is the state of law, a state of law and democracy that you just described to me. The court decided that each one of them was taken away by the court's decree, sent to Forensic Medicine, and identified 16 things, and the others were buried in the cemetery of the orphans.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0882par0504	The court said bury him on the sidewalk?
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0883par0505	You buried it on the sidewalk! The funeral that the D.A. gave me with the burial certificate...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0877par0506	This is a state of law. We respect the graves and the dead. You are the ones who don't respect the dead, you who don't respect the graves, you who don't respect the people! Period.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0884par0508	Madam Secretary, thank you. Dear MPs, look, I'm asking you...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0885par0510	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0884par0511	Friends I'll give you, we'll allow it. Mr. Levent Nightingale, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0885par0515	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we have completed the fifth round of round of round talks today in the budget law proposal for 2021. Today's talks discussed budgets, respectively, of Health, Environment and Urbanism and the Interior Ministry. Covid-19, who suddenly caught all government governments without a strong-forced state of influence around the world, produced a traumatic impact on the social lives and psychology of communities from health to economics, international relations. At such a difficult time, we thank our ministry, our central and rural agencies, our doctor's nurse, our health army, who did not allow our country to be unprepared for the epidemic, who waged a proactive struggle in Turkey and in the world, whose success was greatly appreciated, and we ask that their budgets be good. Mr. President, in 2020, not only with epidemics... but with earthquakes from the east of our country to the west, and the last one in İzmir, hundreds of our citizens have lost their lives and thousands of our citizens have been injured. Again, floods have caused many lives and financial damage. In all these disasters, with our Minister of Health and Home Affairs, our Minister of Environment and Urbanism and Ministry officials have made superhuman and sincere efforts. We congratulate all our ministry officials and employees, especially Mr. Murat Kurum Bey, who won our nation's appreciation for not only healing the wounds of disasters but for the well-being of urban transformations, for the implementation of healthy, habitable urbanization activities and sustainable environmental policies during this period of time.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0886par0519	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0885par0520	Mr. President, at the beginning of the 21st century, there is a new national struggle for the Turkish nation and Turkey's stay. At such a time, we wish our Ministry of Interior, which has given every kind of sacrifice for our country's security and security, brave and relentless struggle with terrorist organizations, and has achieved great success in its global problem, the most difficult migration in the world, to wish our ministry's 2021-year budget to be a success, especially our Home Secretary, Mr. Süleyman Noble Bey, and our Ministry officials and Home Office, the Security Police and Coast Guard, our security guards, to all our security forces. And Allah befriendeth them and succoureth them. My respects.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0886par0523	Thank you. 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Health Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account CIRKEY MEDICINE AND TIBI TERRIBLE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices' Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Board Final Account for Central Management in 2019 THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITUTIONS [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The Interior Ministry's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) Police General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account JANDARMA GENIAL COMMUNITY [[Continue]] 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Gendarme General Command 2019 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Coast Guard Command 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Central Management Budget for 2021 2) General Directorate of Migration Administration 2019 Central Management Final Account E) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister for Disaster and Emergency Management 2019 Central Management Final Account Mr. President-makers, I'm going to have the budgets of public administrations, which are now in the fifth round, and I'm going to have them read their budgets and final accounts separately into your votes. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Health will be transferred to the central management budget for 2021, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 77,615,519.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Health Ministry's central management budget of 2021 has been approved. I submit to your votes that the Department of Health's Central Management account of the year 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Health Ministry Final Account for Central Management in 2019 Total allowance 48.232.147.968.54 Budget Expenses 47.913.511.028,41 Savings Expenses 33.507,722,60 Cancelled Grant 348.143.169.97 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 18,062.156.38 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the health department's central management account in 2019 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that Turkey's General Health Directorate of Borders and Coasts will be transferred to the central management budget for 2021: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. ENGLISH HUDIT AND THESE ACTIONS ARE GENIOR 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 174.844,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 454.276,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget for 2021 of Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate has been adopted.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0887par0600	Mr. President, we can't hear. Mr. President, we need to hear to vote for some of them.
tbmm-2020-12-12sit08spe0886par0601	Okay. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of Turkey's Borders and Coasts Health Directorate will be transferred into the chapters of its final account in 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 879,735,300,27 Budget Expenses 453,268,743,25 Canceled Fund 426,466,557,02 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 179,032,664,47 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 298.442,000.00 Collection 427.596.410.02 Ret and Refunds 133,720,36 Net Collection 427,462,689,66 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices shall be transferred to the central management budget for 2021: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. ENGLISH MEDICINE AND TIBI TERRIBLE BUILDING 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices' Central Management Budget for 2021 GENEL TOPLAM 187.998,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 185.998,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of Turkey's Medicine and Medical Device Agency was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices shall be transferred into the chapters of 2019: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Board Final Account for Central Management in 2019 Total allowance 159,052,400,00 Budget Expenses 154.883.737.08 Canceled Fund 4.168,662.92 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 154.221.000.00 Collection 129,219,011,07 Ret and Returns 1.108.99,11 Net Collection 128,110,011,96 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of Turkey's Medicine and Medical Device Agency were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the President of the Turkish Health Institutes shall be transferred to the central management budget for 2021: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 175,639.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 175.639.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget for 2021 of Turkey's Health Institutes presidency has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the President of the Turkish Health Institutes' final account for central management in 2019 will be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 50.383,000.00 Budget Expenses 12:978.535.90 Canceled Grant 37,404,464,10 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 10.056.098.00 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 50.136,000.00 Collection 35.162.490,93 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Turkish Health Institutes presidency were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism will be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2021 Central Management Budget GENEL TOPLAM 3.378.164,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the State Department of Environment and Urbanism's final account of central administration in 2019 will be transferred to its sections: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 7,709,743,985,73 Budget Expenses 7.312.717.831.66 Canceled Fund 191,676,816,50 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 205,349,337,57 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Central Administration account of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the deed and the Kadastro General Directorate will be transferred to the central management budget for 2021, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. TAPU AND KADISTRO GENIORITY 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 1,290.815,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of 2021 was adopted by the National Directorate of Tapu and Kadastro. In 2019, I submit to your votes that the central management account of the deed and the Kadastro General Directorate shall be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance is 1,453,819,509,16 Budget Expenses 1,176,428,516,27 Cancelled Fund 38.098.639.69 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 239,292,353,20 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the deed and the Kadastro General Directorate were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Interior will be transferred to the central management budget of 2021, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 10,665,011.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Interior's central management budget was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the Central Administration account of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in 2019 will be transferred to its specific sectors: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Interior Ministry's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 Total allowance 13.227,353,773,18 Budget Expenses 13.098. 168,023,81 Cancelled Grant 129,185,749,37 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 75,994.811.00 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Home Office's central management account in 2019 have been adopted. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Security Directorate be transferred to the central management budget for 2021, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Police General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 44,555,427,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2021 of the Security Directorate has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the Security Directorate in 2019 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Police General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 28.937.058.249.09 Budget Expenses 35.109.032.668.51 The grant goes to 8.945,093,639,22 Canceled grant 2,766,827,463,83 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 2,747,873,245,10 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Central Government's final account of 2019 were adopted by the Security Directorate. I submit to your votes that the General Command of the Gendarme shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2021, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 27.666,860.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Gendarme General Command was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the central administrative account of the General Command of the Gendarmes in 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Gendarme General Command 2019 Central Management Terminate Account Total grant 21,115,934,383,19 Budget Expenses 20,797,030.168,60 Canceled Grant 318,819,393,58 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 317,513,324,34 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the General Command of the Gendarme were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Coast Guard Command be transferred to the central management budget for 2021: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Coast Guard Command 2021 Central Management Budget GENEL TOPLAM 1,470.792,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Coast Guard Command was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Coast Guard Command in 2019 will be transferred to its final accounts: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Coast Guard Command 2019 Central Management Final Account Total Payment 1,073,982,946,06 Budget Expenses 953.013.523.64 Cancelled Fund 120.969.42.42. The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 119,990,890,05 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the Coast Guard Command were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Finnish Immigration Administration's budget for central management in 2021 will be approved by those in favor of... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 2,983,522,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2021 of the Finnish Immigration Administration General Directorate has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Central Administration account of 2019 of the Department of Immigration Administration shall be transferred into the chapters of its final account: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 2,935,799,766,42 Budget Expenses 2,882.344.217.67 Canceled allowance 53,455,548,75 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 37,894,728,37 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the Finnish Immigration Administration's General Directorate were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the President of Disaster and Emergency Management shall be transferred to the central management budget for 2021: Those who don't... Sustained. AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 2,085,860.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget for 2021 was adopted by the President of Disaster and Emergency Management. I submit to your votes that the President of Disaster and Emergency Management shall be transferred to the section of the final account of central management in 2019: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Disaster and Emergency Management Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget Total Payment 1,916,636,362.12 Budget Expenses 1,890.206.420.88 Canceled Fund 26,429,941,24 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 1,489,862,12 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the presidency of disaster and emergency management were adopted in 2019. Thus, the budgets and precise accounts of public administrations in the fifth round were accepted. I wish them well. Congressmans, the fifth round of talks is complete. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Sunday (December 13th 2020) to discuss budgets and precise accounts of public administrations, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
