tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 76th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, today, you know, with this epidemic, we want to move the work quickly. Therefore, I will not meet any of your promises today, according to the 60. I offer it to your knowledge. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first word off the agenda belongs to Konya MP Leyla Sahin Usta, who wants to talk about the outbreak of the coronavirus. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0002par0013	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have received a promise today that is off the agenda of our precious MPs and our beloved nation watching us at the beginning of their screens. On this occasion, I salute all of you, the High Council. First, I wish God's mercy to our citizens who died of the coronavirus, and patience to their families and loved ones, and urgent healings for those who have been diagnosed and treated. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are experiencing one of the most important and dangerous times in the world for human life and health. Since the Coronavirus was seen on a global scale and simultaneously everywhere, it was declared by the World Health Organization to be a pandemic. The pandemic ad tells us what the epidemic is all about. As Turkey, we've taken precautions without seeing any cases in our country. We're also taking new and strict measures based on the condition and conditions of the outbreak. Since there is no known cure for this virus, the most important measure we need to take is to avoid situations and environments that could be infected. Our government and our government are taking every precaution to control the epidemic without hesitation, without delay. Human life and health are ahead of everything for us. We exist for the nation of the state and we act on it. The most effective way to combat the Coronavirus is to stop social relations for a period of time, maintain social distance. That is why we insist that our citizens stay in their homes. It's vital in this process to stop the spread of the plague and make sure the infected are treated and isolated. Let's not forget that every case that's been diagnosed and treated and isolated is no longer a risk to society. In the fight against this virus, our Ministry of Health, all of our institutions and agencies are mobilised with every means possible. In many parts of the world, their healthcare system has collapsed. We are monitoring the state of Italy, Spain, Iran. We see that they have to make impossible choices by leaving their elders to die. Unfortunately, we hear some very sad news. There has been no problems in Turkey's health care and equipment, and I hope it will not happen. This success is also the result of our steps in health care and huge investments. Of course, the selfless work of all our health workers, especially our health minister, Mr. Fahrettin Husband, is above all recognition. As a doctor, I thank my colleagues, our health workers, and God bless them all. The pandemic, which threatens human life and health, also causes major economic and social effects on a global scale. Our president, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has been given constructive and facilitating measures for every part of our society in the fight against the coronavirus as a result of his instructions and direction. The tradesmen, employers and farmers have been financially facilitated, especially in all the sectors that produce. All measures have been taken to ensure that our pensioners and needy citizens are not badly affected by the process and remain safe. The services are being taken home by our relevant institutions. Education and teaching continue at all levels in remote and digital environments. Remote and flexible working methods are being implemented in the public and private sector for the protection of social distance. In this way, health risks are minimized, while public services are maintained without interruption. To ensure that no citizen has a basic shortage of needs, all of our institutions continue to work nonstop. In the meantime, I would like to thank and congratulate our students, our young people, our teachers, who have turned their knowledge and experience into a service for our people, who are producing a hygiene mask, such as disinfectant, soap, and so forth. As important as the measures taken in combating the Coronavirus is the spirit of unity and unity, the high moral and motivation of our belief that together we can overcome this disease. This virus knows no limits: religion, language, race, sect, political party, ideology; we need to keep that in mind. Now, power, opposition, we all have to shoulder this struggle together. Our society needs this. We have great roles here as representatives of the nation. Let's do whatever it takes for the health of our citizens and the welfare of our country. And what we ask of our citizens is that we obey the measures taken and all the rules that must be followed. Our state-of-the-art institutions have revealed every development to the public with all its transparency.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0003par0027	Finish your words, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0002par0028	Let's not take any more credit. In this struggle, responsibility applies to all of us. One by one, individual, please follow the rules we must obey. All over the world, while scientists are working on vaccines and medicines against this virus, we will be able to stay in our homes, maintain social distance, observe the measures we must observe, do a great task both simple and easy for our country and for our world. There's no age in learning. On this occasion, in fact, we have been reminded of our tradition for a very long time, of the many things that we have seen, of how to recreate and apply, such as offering cologne. To strengthen our unity, I salute you with respect and wish you all a healthy, uncoordinated days, reminding all of you that we can do for our parents, our 65-year-old people, a new feeling that we can help our neighbors, a new sense that we can help them, a new union that we can help them.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0003par0031	The second non-responsive statement belongs to former City MP Arlekcuoğlu, who wanted to mention the 99th anniversary of the Second Inönu Victory. Here you go, Mr. Shellguy.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0004par0035	Mr. President, I have been promised the 99th anniversary of the Second Inönu War, Second Inönu Victory, which is one of the turning points of our Liberation War. I salute you all. Between 1919 and 1923, the National Liberation Movement led by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is the epic union of a bunch of poor people who spent their lives at the front, who were experienced, tired, sick, and hungry for victory, and tried to save their last homeland. In October 30, 1918, the effort of the Italian states to share the Ottoman Empire was concluded with the Mondros Inkrek. On May 5, 1919, Greek armies invaded İzmir (Izmir) after the Ottomans took away their weapons and disbanded their armies and seized their transport and communications systems. Our first battle against Armenia was on October 30, 1920, when the army under the command of Qazim Karabekir Pasha rescued Batum, Kars and Artvin. Takiben stayed at the border of Kars and Artvin in the east with the Moscow and Kars deals. On 11 January 1921, the victory of the First Inönu, which took place in the Eskişehir-Billec line, was our first success against the West. Although followed by the London Conference, the Greek confidence in themselves has failed with the idea that they would maintain military superiority. On March 27, 1920, Turkish and Greek soldiers faced each other at the Inönu positions. During the Second Battle of the Inönu, the Turkish army had 38,610 soldiers, 290 machine guns, 104 cannons, while the Greeks had 44,600 soldiers, 3,950 machine guns and 220 cannons. Our army has encountered 1,499 martyrs and 2,470 children injured. This war resulted in the victory of the Turkish armies in 1921. After the Battle of the Second Inönu, Mustafa Kemal sent a telegram to İsmet Pasha, where you did not only defeat his enemy, but also the nation's good fortune. The Second Innu victory has given the nation confidence and faith in salvation as a result of a fierce battle, creating significant changes in the development of the national struggle. In the Battle of Inönu, Turkish soldiers have shown their determination to expel the invaders at all costs. The officers fought on the front lines. All the commanders of the Third Battalion of the Third Regiment were killed. He was wounded by the Commander of the Group, the 1st Division, and the 61st Division. After the Second Inönu War, France searched for ways to reach an agreement with Ankara, evacuating Zonguldak. This victory by Ankara's government has left England in doubt about Greece. Churchill sums up the attitude the British will follow after this event as a non-military adventure. In May 1921, the Italians began to withdraw from the Aegean and the Mediterranean. On April 1st, the Greek army was forced to withdraw in the direction of Bursa. After the second victory of the Inönu, the Turkish troops began to retreat from the Afyon (Afyon) and from the Afyon (Afyon) to the footman. The will established in the War of Salvation and the founding of the republic is strong enough to guide us through the heavy challenges we face these days. As I finish my words, on the occasion of the anniversary of the Second Innu Victory, I honor and mercy all the martyrs who have sacrificed their lives for the integrity and independence of our country, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and Ismet Innu, in every part of our country; our nation is grateful to all its martyrs and veterans, to their souls. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0005par0045	The third unscheduled statement belongs to Kahramanmarash MP Sefer Aycan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Aycan.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0006par0049	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the coronavirus, and I salute you all. Yes, today, of course, we need to talk about the coronavirus, there's no point in talking about anything else. Before we talk about what's going to happen next, we need to talk about the current situation, and there's no point in making it polemic and wearing it out; what we're going to do is prevent pandemics, what kind of precautions we're going to take, we need to talk about it. We know that the pandemic is currently in 182 countries. What are we going to do, how does this pandemic stop, and I'd like to say a few words on it. Of course, in order for the virus to end naturally, the virus has to mutate. We don't know when that's gonna happen. In previous instances, SARS had mutated in MERS, and the virus made itself incapable of disease. Now, if that happens, of course we'll get out of it, but we don't know if it's gonna happen or when. What can we do here, naturally, while we wait? What we can do is, in preventing the epidemic, the most important issue in preventing the number of diseases is to develop vaccines, but right now, vaccine development is not successful, it's still not possible to produce vaccines, it's unclear when they're going to produce them. Antibody has not been developed against it, so it's not right for him to give antibodies at the moment. In the meantime, unnecessary polemics are being done, and if you eat this, it will not be infected. And it's very rude of a physician to say that, and it's unethical, and there's no such thing. When you eat this, there will be no disease. There is no food, no matter what, it should also be noted. Then there's only one thing: to separate the sick from the good. This is the most important precaution we can do right now, and we have no other precautions, no other means of protection. The sick ones, of course, we isolate, we lock the sick ones in hospitals, but the bigger danger is that they're not aware of their disease, they're walking around inside of us. They don't realize the situation themselves, and neither do the people nearby, and they're spreading the disease because we separate patients and treat them. By the way, of course the test is important. There are various polymixes involved in the test. There's no such thing as a test for everyone, there's no such thing in medicine. The tests -- they showed -- 15 percent of them are positive, so 15 percent of the people who have found it, who have a complaint, and who have applied to the health centre, even the doctor felt needed to be tested. Yeah, there's no approach to testing 83 million, and there's no such app in any country. So 15 per cent of the tests have been detected, and 5 per cent of them are heavily monitored in intensive care, pulmonary failure. The number of deaths in Turkey is now 1.5 per cent of the cases. We're good this way, but we're still on the rise. We need to be more sensitive about this, we need to get it straight. There was a serious case increase yesterday, especially if we stabilize it, stabilize it, make it a straight line, then we'll succeed, then we'll look for ways to drop it, but yesterday, there was a serious increase. And in the world, of course, we are far more serious than Italy and Spain. The rate of sighting in 100,000 is measured by the speed of attack. Ataccess velocity indicates the rate of an infection spreading, and since the incubation period is 14 days, we need to look at attack speeds 14 days apart. In the first 14 days, our attack rate has increased to 2.25 per 100,000, while in the second 14 days it has increased to 20,000 per 100,000. This is a serious rise, we need to drop this. So, of course, all we have to do is leave the patients, make sure that the people infected, infected, have social isolation, and we stay out of it. They're doing the math again, so if we can avoid leaving the house at 75 percent, we can reduce the disease by 90 percent. So I'll say it again: please, let's stick with it, let's not go out, especially not the risk groups. I'm probably running out of time, so if you'll just give me a minute...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0007par0057	Go ahead, please, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0006par0058	Finally, I'd like to say a few words about the medical staff. As our chairman-in-chief has pointed out, we, the National Movement Party, rely on Turkish health staff, believe in them and support them. We rely on our medical staff everywhere; we rely on the staff at the hospital, the staff at 112, the family physicians who work at the first step; they all work with self - sacrifice and try to do their jobs very well, but there are other things to do at this time that are beyond applause. What do you have to do? For example, medical staff are still suffering from violence, so test me. So we have a law proposal that I've given you, given by our group, as the National Movement Party, to prevent violence, and we can bring it up in this period. We can do one more thing, especially when the infected, infected health staff -- in fact, the law fits -- we can accept this as a professional illness or an occupational accident, and we can make it a compensation. We trust the medical staff, thank them for their sacrifice. I wish you all a healthy day. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0008par0062	Thank you. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda with the proposals of the Law and other tasks from the Commissions. We will begin negotiations with Kilis MP Mustafa Hilmi Dülger, who is ranked in the 1st place, as well as with 55 MPs from the Market and Neighborhood Watch Act and the Interior Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks by İzmir MP Bazil Yıldırım, who is in the 2nd place, between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, and by Dair Law Proposal and Foreign Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with 85 rows. On behalf of the group, the first word on the entire proposal is for Mr. Arslan Shellukcuoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Shellguy.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0009par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the High Council. Of course, international agreements are very important. Today, however, the condition of the coronavirus and its health care system and its problems are of particular importance. These should also be addressed and presented to the attention of the High Assembly. In our country, health care is run on three levels as a state level: family medicine is the first step. Family medicine is, normally, the first state institution for all patients to go to. Family physicians are responsible for vaccinating children, tracking pregnancies and monitoring chronic patients in their area. However, family medicine is alone with many problems. Here, the government has laid down some of its work on the shoulders of family physicians, such as renting the place, providing expenses, spending materials, and setting up staff there. The second level is the institution of ill-advised treatment outside the educational hospital. If first-level patients can't solve their problems there, then they'll go to second base and there'll be a solution to their problems. The third step is the institution of ill-advised treatments. These are health department educational hospitals or university hospitals. It's just that it's become so strange for us that the third step works like the first step. Anyone with a headache, a toothache, a cold, a cold, goes straight to step three. This causes an extreme pile-up on the third step, and instead of the patients who normally have to spend time there, it causes them to deal with lower groups of patients. Why is this happening? This is what happens, my friends, for the sake of the AK PARTY. So it's said to the patient that I opened the door to the university. There is no account for what he brings or brings. He opened the door to the university, so he could get the citizen's vote, that's the account. Other institutions, however, are private clinics and private hospitals of freelance physicians with free clinics. Private hospitals are still a mess. For example, in a private hospital, 850 liras is given birth, while in another private hospital, $8,500 is given birth. The state has not contributed to private hospitals for more than a decade. This is completely on the shoulders of the citizen. Although the state supports citizens here in private hospitals seems to allow citizens to receive treatment, it is normally in private hospitals, with the money that comes out of their own pockets, the citizen has to make his own treatment and diagnosis with his own strength. Normally, the system should be based on family physicians. If you look at it today, there's been a massive build-up of hospitals because of the coronavirus that we're living in, both in the second step and in the third step. Friends, the first place for these patients to go is in the first place. Patients there when they go to the second, third step, prevent people from doing their jobs, their medical staff from doing their jobs, and we don't, but about 40 percent of the people who went to the hospital in a foreign broadcast are reported to be suffering from coronavirus disease because of other patients in the hospital. So the chain must be kept intact and followed, and the state must not allow any other kind of behavior. Patients have money coming out of their pockets for their health, and there's a payment everywhere. The state has also made pharmacies its own collector's officer. Instead of collecting the money he normally needs from the patient at the hospital, the patient faces that payment when he goes to the pharmacy and gets medicine. If the patient went two times, three times, had an examination, took his prescription, but didn't take his medication, at the 4th, 5th, when he goes to the 5th, the pharmacy collects it with all the deposits; it's not acceptable. Health today has been completely transformed into a commercial meta. In our country's practices, health has been given all kinds of health care, all kinds of development in the world, as long as you let me know about the money, the more money you've got, the more you've got. The more you've got, the more you've got, the more you've got. Not content with 60 billion dollars in privatisation, the AK PARTY governments are also concerned about a runt in health, lending the Turkish people 20 years later. In this case, city hospitals are the biggest freaks we've come across in this group. Friends, there is a model hospital for city hospitals that our government has built in Payment. The cost for city hospitals was $338,000 per patient, and the cost for State Hospital has been reduced to $43,000 per patient. A total of $10 billion, 777 million will be paid to city hospitals, with hospitals that will soon be finished, and a sum of $15 million paid to 300-beded State Hospital. If city hospitals had been done with public interest instead of rants and accounting at the State Hospital Paid, friends, all city hospitals would cost us $1 billion, 350 million today. When city hospitals run out of time, 15 years, 18 years, 20 years, the money that comes out of the government's pouch is 96 billion dollars, 96 billion dollars. This, alone, is a material burden, a financial burden that may fall on the shoulders of our grandchildren, not on those who live in Turkey now, but on the descendants who follow us. The reason for AK PARTY to run the country, such as the company, is: "How many kilometers does a locomotive go at an hour? How many miles do you go at??" You know, if there's a rant in there, you know, going over this lot without even thinking about it, getting on top of the rant, that's what matters today. It's the power of justice, the strength of education, the strength of health. Social support is ignored for them, and the AK PARTY governments are now pursuing them as much as they can. Again, a state of performance in the health care system is a different freak. With the performance system, treatments are growing, unnecessary operations are emerging, and the polyclinics are doing the same service over and over again. The administration has left responsibility for its failure to operate to its employees and, in particular, its doctors. The performance system must be abandoned. Medical personnel have sustained violence for 17 years. There has been no progress in this matter, and what the government tells the patients here is: "Go, be cured, give the staff two slaps, come out." Nothing has been done about it, and there are at least 10 laws waiting in the High Assembly, and none of them are laid down. At least -- and we should be able to appreciate the health care and health care right now -- in this period, let's unify one of these laws, free the health staff from this influence, this pressure. Friends, there's no government agency that can do the job of a citizen and be beaten by a citizen. There's been a lot of talk about it, and there's been a lot of trouble, but here again, with all due respect, it's very populist behavior, and I think it's got a ballot bond, and nothing's done. Paramedics suffer a lot from this job, this situation, this discomfort. Again, drug consumption is a separate problem. When elected president in the United States, you know, there are four sectors that are free to lobby: weapons, oil, medicines and tobacco. Of course, we're interested in tobacco, and we're interested in the gun, but as of today's topic, we're very interested in medicine. You're saying that we raised patient tails in insurance, removed Army Pharmaceutical Factory; what happened is that in 2002 the Turkish nation paid $1.18 billion for imported drugs, while in 2018 they paid $4.9 billion for them. Friends, in 2002, our unemployment was 10.5 percent in 2018, 13.5 percent now, you know, so you're spending money, where you're spending it, what you're spending it on, it's not clear, but if you tell us that you're spending it for the welfare of this nation, it's not believable, it's not easy to believe that. Here, the Department of National Defense has taken action on the production of medical supplies. Hopefully, the Ministry of National Defense will soon open pharmaceutical factories and the government will open some of its own pharmaceutical factories. We know that the Ministry of Health is involved in some work. We believe that that's what reason and common sense need to be. Officially, the health department's pharmaceutical factories...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0010par0094	Mr. Scabukcuoğlu, finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0009par0095	At least it is necessary for the health of our nation to make medicines in Turkey, which are used too much and cause too much spending. We all know the economy, friends, is a matter of choice. If you want, you can make city hospitals 10,000 beds -- which today are not random hospitals except 200 to 600 beds -- you can do not 10 kilometers from the city, but 50 kilometers from the city, and you can make their toilets gold, but I don't know what you'll do with 13.7 percent unemployment. On this occasion, I salute you all, and I believe that we will focus on the problems of the medical staff and we will find a cure for them. Thank you, and I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0011par0100	On behalf of the groups, a second request for the People's Democratic Party Group is for Mr. Gülustan Kılıç Koçyiğit. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0012par0103	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. ==Early life==On January 22, 1946, the Persian Kurdistan was the first anniversary of the execution of Mahabad, President Gazi Mohammad, on March 31, 1947, when hegemonic forces were killed shortly after the declaration. In this occasion, I would like to express that I remember the Veteran Muhammad and his companions with respect, gratitude, and mercy. Mr. President, these are the days of the corona, and the whole world is dealing with the corona epidemic. The first case of corona in Turkey, you know, began on 11 March when the Ministry of Health officially announced the case. If in the meantime and even before that, if Turkey had taken sufficient precautions when the first corona cases began to appear in Iran, next to us, neighboring Iran, today, we would not have dealt with the corona case over 13,000, and the number of people we lost would not have come to the 200, perhaps not to the 250, dear friends. Are there any countries that successfully fight this virus? Yes, I do. South Korea and Singapore, for example, began to fight this virus very quickly, and they are very successful. So, what are they doing? They do extensive tests, they apply strict isolation and quarantine conditions, they don't compromise. So, what's going on in our country, dear friends? What's going on in our country is that with the trilogy of patience, prayer and cologne, our government is trying to run things, deal with this plague that's plagued the world like Corona. In fact, what is being done in our country when all countries are explaining social packages and guaranteeing their citizens the needs of being a citizen while fulfilling the needs of 21st century civilization? Dear friends, once again, again and again, the AKP is staring into the public's pockets, and is trying to get through this process with the money he will receive from the public. Two days ago, what was Recep Tayyip Erdogan's address to the nation, in fact, is that we can read it as an official expression of the state's waste, the AKP's failure to govern the process, that you have no structural, rational and strategic mind, and that you don't want to be drawn to it, dear friends. We ask the AKP here: weren't you among the biggest countries, we are among the 17 great countries? Weren't you the one who said, "Western countries are jealous of us?" Weren't you the guys who were showing off that the IMF wanted to borrow $5 billion from us? Yes, it was you. Well, then we ask from here: What are the other countries jealous of or jealous of us? For example, in the days of the Covid outbreak, are they jealous that you, the people, have won their will and appointed trustees to HDP municipalities, dear friends? Or are they still jealous that you condemn people in prison to death without any measure, even though there are nearly 300,000 prisoners in prison and it's been more than twenty days since April 11th? Or we can't help but ask the leading health workers in the fight against this epidemic whether they're jealous that you haven't even found a mask, that you haven't provided protective health equipment, dear friends. Or, I don't know, maybe all the countries stay home, sit down, don't worry about food, food, debts. They might be jealous that our workers are going to work every day to the death. Or maybe they were also jealous that you, in fact, have arranged housing loans or the VAT rate down in flights, which are included in the arrangements you've announced as part of the fight against the epidemic. Yes, all of this shows us, dear friends, the reality of the AKP, which has been disconnected from reality and has been corrupted by perception. Even in normal times, you couldn't rule this country; you were constantly trying to control the opponents with your inhibition policies; you were trying to save your life from war, Ranttan and thalan. Today, in the days of the corona, you know very well that the spear doesn't fit in the sack. And this time, you stopped fighting the corona, and you went after those who said there were difficulties in this struggle. Your Ministry of Interior is sitting at the head of Twitter day and night, trying to catch up on who's throwing out which tweet, and get a restraining order against them. Dear friends, this is the end of the line. Now, what are you doing? Now you're trying to fool the public. What you're saying is that we're enough for us, Turkey. It's clear once again that you're trying to manipulate the public, to play with perceptions. What do we say? The resources of this country are sufficient for the people of this country, as long as you keep your hands off the resources, as long as you use the taxes you collect from the people again to benefit the people, to use it, to think about it. I'd like to say a few sources to those who say, "We're out of resources." For example, you can close down more than 4.5 million of your tax dollars and daily expenses. You can ask for some of the spoils of Genghisin, Kolin, Limakin, Kalyon, Makyol, which you have paid for by the state's tenders. You may not be able to pay for roads, bridges, tunnels, airports, which will be paid by the treasury budget, although there is no need for it right now, but you can quickly nationalize them, but if you don't, you can cancel their payments for a reason, and we don't know if there are any of those items in the contracts. What else can you do? For example, you can use the money you spent on arming, the drone, the SIHA, the F-35, the fuel of the F-35s for the pandemic, and in the meantime, perhaps you can come up with an idea for the democratic solution of the Kurdish problem, dear friends. Yes, in these difficult days, inner peace comes from sincerity and sincere steps. If every day you make a speech, suppressing the opposition of this society with pressure, and then you get up and try to eliminate their institutions, then you can't get up here and make a promise of sincerity, and you shouldn't set it up, dear friends. Your opposition today began by appointing trustees to Kurdish municipalities, and is now reaching out to block their accounts to take publicist municipal specimens of other opposition municipalities. What are you doing tomorrow? And tomorrow, you're going to try to advance the one-man regime by taking away the remaining powers of the municipalities. Dear friends, of course, one of the most important things is prisons. We've got thousands, tens of thousands of friends in prison who are already in prison. What does the AKP say to us now? I'll keep the thief, I'll keep the grifter, I'll get the counterfeiter or counterfeiter out of prison, but I'll keep those who speak for the equality of this country, those who say that people should live honorably in this country. So the thieves will walk free, but the threat of death will be passed on to them, and you will say, "Selma River, İdris Baluken, Çağlar Demirel and Selma, our friend will remain in prison, or you will tell the public that because they have just expressed their thoughts, Osman Kavala, Ahmet Altan and hundreds of journalists will be left alone in prison, and the danger of death will apply to them, and you will say, "Don't edit this in the interest of the people." That can't happen, dear friends. In September 12th prison, Esat Oktay had not kneeled, and was subjected to all the tortures of September 12th Fascism, Mr. Gültan Kışanak fought for the peace of this country, working with some of you, working overtime, and now you will leave that white-haired wise woman to die in prison.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0013par0119	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0012par0120	This is unacceptable. Our friends expressed it yesterday, and I'd like to say it again from here. If this arrangement leaves political prisoners out, if it does not include political prisoners, let's make it very clear that the first step towards this country's social peace and future will be a very important step that undermines it, but most importantly, it will be intentionally and intentionally murder, and we're warning you not to do it again from here. We don't beg you, we invite you to use the authority of this people in accordance with humanity, morality and conscience. The credit is yours here. Our people will finally see what's for the greater good and what's not for the greater good, and I'm saying that history will, for sure, write it down. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0014par0123	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0015par0124	Mr. Turan, please come in.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0014par0127	Mr. President, dear friends, the speaker has mentioned that the state is bankrupt because of the charity campaign; what will other countries be jealous of? What do you have other than prayer and cologne? Believe me, it's all a separate argument, all a bet. Look, Mr. President, we spoke yesterday about this aid, and I want to say again that it's never a weakness of the state, but it's a fine example of state-to-state integration. Today, Turkey is taking major steps, not only to Turkey, but to help many countries in the world that need it, which proudly sends the Turkish flag there. We're still one of the most advanced countries in the world, especially in the number of intensive care units. We're still one of the few countries in health that offer health care to all of our people, no matter what institution, no matter what social communities, no matter what health and health.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0016par0129	Hospitals have money, don't you know?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0014par0130	I've heard his criticism of prayer, believe me, embarrassedly. We will take all our precautions and encourage our people to pray. I'd like to point out that I don't find it very elegant to use a phrase so far away from the values of society. Round and round, there's no mask. I find his claim very strange. This information needs to be updated, Mr. President. Look, 24 million surgical masks, 3 million N95 masks, 1 million protective masks have been delivered, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0016par0132	They're paper on paper, paper on paper, like everything you've got.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0014par0133	If there's one missing, we'll complete it, but by accusing, by enforcing, I don't approve of this kind of sharing. However, I think it's an approach that shows that the speaker's intention is to get out of the corona, health care, and then, in the execution package, only to bring up the terror prisoners on the agenda.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0017par0135	Mr. Turan, I wish I'd finally promised you this because you're going to have to repeat this four or five more times after every speaker.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0014par0136	They wouldn't, Mr. President, I don't think they'd be that cruel. I mean, the reason for this conversation is obvious.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0017par0138	They do, they do. Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0018par0140	You can't make that kind of prejudice, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0019par0141	Mr. President, is there such a language?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0017par0142	Here you go, Mr. Turan, finish up.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0020par0143	Mr. President, I'd like to say that I think it's odd that there's no criticism of the execution package other than the prisoners of terror, but it's the attitude we've been waiting for. And I also offer to all the public the approach, which is not to engage, not to engage, not to do SOS, not to do SOS, not to do so, but to express their intentions in a sense.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0017par0144	Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0021par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I'd like to point out two or three points for further explanation. We will no doubt discuss this in other talks today. Now, first of all, this is a matter of solidarity. Now, we've definitely never had a party that blamed solidarity and found it bad. It's not about bad solidarity, it's not because solidarity is inappropriate; it's something else we're trying to discuss. The point is, since you're in power, the government has the right to use public resources and authority, you use public resources as power to provide for citizens. So what you need to do is not to campaign for solidarity, but instead to share public resources equally and fairly, to our citizens who need it, stay in the house.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0022par0150	Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0021par0151	So that's what we're discussing. You're not doing your job as a power man, not using public resources like this. And what we're saying is... how does this public resource come into existence? It's the wealth and resources that everyone in this community has created by the sweat of their brows, by the power of their production. At a time like this, when there's such a common epidemic, when you need it so high, if you're not going to distribute these public resources to our citizens equally and fairly, when are you going to distribute it? That's where the problem is. So we object to the fact that the government has taken on its role in public resources, it has not done its duty, but has sought solidarity and has tried to raise money from its citizens. Otherwise, we'll discuss it in a little while -- municipalities have the right to do this kind of work and are legally within their jurisdiction, or civil society organizations do.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0022par0153	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0021par0154	There's nothing wrong with doing these things, but it's what power is supposed to do; that's what we're talking about, that's what we're arguing about. Second: So you'll probably appreciate that the People's Democratic Party is not a party that has a problem with prayer. Of course, everyone needs a prayer at this time, every citizen and citizen. This is not the topic of discussion, but pray again. It is not what the government should do; it is what the government should do, stay in the house, as it is in all other world countries. Since all the authorities have given this assurance to the citizens, people are sitting at home in peace, but in Turkey, unfortunately, this assurance cannot be given. That's where the problem is. Let me point one more time. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0023par0157	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0024par0159	Mr. President, in fact, I took my words very carefully, and I thought Mr. Deputy Director of the Group wouldn't mind. His own deputies could have responded, defended his speech. I'd like to express why I think it's odd that you're taking a stand on this. I mean, the Congressman could make a very good case of his own, if there's been any misunderstanding. You weren't responsible for what I said, Congressman. Why was there such a strange approach, a misdirection...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0023par0161	Mr. Turan, I'm not making any promises to the MPs, I'm only meeting their commitments when the Group's Presidents ask for them.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0024par0162	No, Congressman can defend himself if I have an accusation.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0023par0163	I can't promise anything because there's no bullying.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0024par0164	So, Mr. President, I feel that the position of the Deputy Director of the Group is unfair to his own deputy. Mr. President doesn't perform his duties in Turkey. Believe his statement, I blame him very much, very strangely. Despite the fact that the world's best measures have been taking since the beginning of the process are at the top of the most delayed countries, I believe these statements are outrageous. There's so much work, so much caution, we've passed the law together, we've supported...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0023par0167	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0024par0168	...every Ministry has done very important things in its field, took steps. We met with all the parties when there were demands of the law, and we faced it together. We spent 15-20 items here in one day, we did business together.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0025par0169	We didn't do anything together, don't lie.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0024par0170	To pretend that they don't exist and claim that Turkey has been weak in this regard, we are surprised to see it. From the very beginning, let the people live so that the government can live. We've tried to take precautions for every social network. Despite the decision to leave the citizens of some so-called developed countries alone with him, Turkey has taken major steps from the beginning, at a time when many developed countries have even hesitated to take steps. I think it's in the best interest of a more merciful approach, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0026par0172	Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0027par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to say one quick thing. Now, perhaps for the first time in a century, we've faced such an epidemic in the world.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0028par0176	Are you party propaganda?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0029par0177	Yeah, I'm the AK PARTY deputy.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0028par0178	Do you have the right to...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0029par0179	I'm the AK PARTY deputy, don't you know?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0028par0180	You can't...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0030par0181	Congressman, I don't want you to decide...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0031par0182	Friends, this is the Deputy Director of the Group, please.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0032par0183	For the first time in the world a century later, such an epidemic was faced. Naturally, Turkey has faced such a situation for the first time. Now, it's perfectly natural to discuss this, to make some criticism, or to make some suggestions. So this is the first time this power has faced such a situation. So there may be shortcomings, there may be some errors, and it is perfectly natural to discuss and criticize them, to make suggestions. I find it very strange that these are considered cruel. We're not doing anything unfair, we're expressing suggestions and criticism. Or what's done is, for example, it started with 500 tests, and we were saying at the time, very inadequate, the number of tests must be increased rapidly.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0031par0185	Let's open the system.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0032par0186	. As a matter of fact, 15,000 tests a day have been reached, but that's not enough to say that power doesn't do anything, but let's know that 15,000 tests are not enough. You know, in the world, South Korea and Singapore, starting with 20,000 tests a day, were able to actually limit the spread to a great deal. So, if there's any flaws here, I don't think there's anything odd about saying them. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0031par0191	The last word on behalf of the groups is for the Republican People's Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Bingöl.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0033par0194	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The pandemic is taking effect very quickly, unfortunately, in our country as well. At every opportunity, we said: "We will overcome this problem as if by social solidarity, as if declaring mobilisation, and that is what we must do. Here, without any political concern, we need to look at this with an understanding that will protect the health of 83 million citizens, as the relevant article of the Constitution emphasizes that the Republic of Turkey is a social state. ▪ The principle of the social state is not an institutional principle. ▪ The principle of the social state is a constitutional arrangement of all institutions that should be closely concerned with the country's institutions, which should be firmly attached to this clause, and so, rightly, municipalities must implement this principle of social state. Good things have been done; Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, Gaziantep Metropolitan Municipality, Konya Metropolitan Municipality and many municipalities have been involved in this process, regardless of which party it belongs to. They've done a very good thing, they've done a very good thing, they're fulfilling the need to be a social state, one. Second: municipalities are the most accessible institutions for the citizen. E did what he had to do in the municipalities. What did the municipalities do? İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality quickly stepped in, created field hospitals, converted 12 large closed gyms into temporary hospitals; distributed three meals of hot food, food, and food for thousands of citizens; hosted citizens living on the streets in their shelters. So, what did Ankara Metropolitan Mayor Mansur Slow and his team do? We're six million together. He said, he didn't discriminate. Look, Mr. Mansur, the Mayor of the Metropolitan Municipality, which heads the Slow Way, has been disinfecting, continuing to disinfect, cleaning the streets, disinfecting all the means of transportation until they reach taxis, doing very important things. With only three or five kilos of paper a day, he picked up three or five kilos of plastic, took out the street workers who were trying to make a living, hosted them, fed them with three meals of hot food, hosted them, crowned them. What else did he do? The poor people who lived on the street hosted our citizens, hosted them beyond hospitality, fed them, and did many things. Look, dear friends, as of yesterday, 94 thousand of our citizens have applied to Ankara Metropolitan Municipality for food assistance. Yesterday, after this unfortunate attempt, you'd think these applications would have stopped? Never. The number now exceeds 120,000. As of yesterday, 14,000 of our citizens who lost their jobs, trying to live off their daily earnings, had applied to the city for cash and food benefits. Today, that number has exceeded 20,000 and the applications are still in progress. That's what he tried to do with the donations, Mr. Mansur Slow. What else did he do? He's taken care of the health workers we've been praising. Hospitals asked for shelter near their own hospital -- such as Hacettepe Hospital -- immediately assigned them a home, only Hacettepe employees use it. The city hospital in Bilkent had such a request, and he attempted to meet it. He's assigned private decontamination buses to health workers. What else did he do? I wish that was all there was to it. He installed thermal cameras in many places, installed disinfectant devices in many places, and considered all municipal staff with children under the age of 12. Look, he gave our brother 500 euros worth of cash and food to live on selling 775 bagels, and he continues to do so. I wish we didn't have to be interrupted by these mayors who did what it took to be a social state yesterday. We'd expect that these mayors would be thanked, that these mayors would be given an example and encouraged by other mayors, that instead of being cut off, we'd expect that these mayors would go looking for something more to do. Dear lawmakers, what kind of understanding is that such injustice is being done to the mayors who are on their way just to help them, to help them out with that sense of mobilization, and hopefully to get out of here. I hope that all of us today will not be cut off from individual or broader aid, which we are all trying to do. Look, we've had citizens looking for all of you since yesterday. I've had dozens of citizens texting me, calling me, talking about someone, and I've had their message: I've been a member of the AK PARTY for fifteen years, and I've voted with my wife, and I've voted with the AK PARTY since then. From that day forward, every election period -- my neighbors, my relatives -- I made an effort to vote for the AK PARTY, but yesterday I had a tremendous disappointment -- and I'm going to ask how I'm going to contribute to Ankara Metropolitan Municipality at the first opportunity. Now, that understanding encourages citizens to be rightly concerned. That understanding upsets our citizens. That understanding is not the right approach. You will launch a campaign as a state, intercepting municipalities, which are the most comfortable institutions for citizens to reach. The government does not organise relief campaigns; the state helps out of its budget. Condemning this country to a 27-dollar fit was the most unfair thing to do to this state. Fitre and zakat are the help everyone will give to the strange guru near you, the poor poor. If you need him, I can't find much to say about this country, I'll say, "Woe to you," and I can't say anything else. Let our municipalities continue with that concept of social municipalism, of human-focused municipalism. Whatever you do to these municipalities, you will never be able to stop them from serving the citizens. Today, April 1st, two days before that, on March 30th, was the 1st year of the municipal elections. During that time, our mayors, what they did during this one year, what they did -- public service, what they did, what they did with it, and what they did with it, and what they did with it, and what you did with it, it kept our mayors from displaying this humble work. Don't worry, our mayors will do what they do to help those tens of thousands of citizens, hundreds of thousands of citizens who apply to them. I hope there are no further attempts to intercept these benefits. I am a citizen of Ankara. I'm an Ankara MP. I made individual contributions in peace, and you did, but earlier yesterday, I went to the Ankara Metropolitan Mayor's fundraiser, and I helped with my own means. A few hours later, those coins were blocked, so don't do it, don't do it! Citizens go to places they trust, help. Citizens go to institutions they believe in, they help.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0034par0203	Mr. Bingöl, finish your words.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0033par0204	Thank you. These citizens, if they turn their faces towards the donation of Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, if they support the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality's donation campaign, they do it entirely on the basis of volunteering; there is no pressure. E, the government's campaign, which the President started, which is long after our mayors started its campaign, is being released. Those in charge of the institutions are pressuring the citizens, forcing them to help them here. It's a matter of the heart, dear friends. It will come from within you, and you will feel it from your heart. If you trust where you're helping, be as good as your mother's milk. I believe that Mansur slowly and his friends will give these donations to their rightful owners with the best of intentions, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0035par0208	First word on behalf of Mr. Omar Faruk Gergerlioğlu. Here you go, Mr. Gergerlioglu.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0036par0211	Mr. President, we said that the coronavirus measures were delayed, and there was a proposal for an execution law that had been held for a year, asking us every day about thousands of people, prisoners and relatives of the prison, because it was in no condition to remove the prisons. But here's what came up after March 10th, which we've been saying for a month, there's an outbreak of Coronavirus." The proposal for the law was presented by the ruling parliament only a week earlier in a draft; there is a significant delay. The law must be enforced immediately, and in prisons, importantly, evacuations must be made, fair and even. There's a real danger in prison; it's a risk group. Prisons, immigrants, again psychiatric care centres and others in the risk group must be carefully reviewed immediately. Look, the Coronavirus isn't in prisons. The Minister of Justice said. We know very well that there are coronavirus cases hidden in prisons. Look, I've just been investigated for publicizing Arif Yıldırım, who was taken from Sincan Prison to Bilkent City Hospital last week. Why? Because I've informed the public correctly, and those who have done so are trying to do so to keep the public in the dark. Now look, the information they were trying to hide yesterday has just been released. The former Co-Chair of Mardin Mazıdağı, who was staying in Tarsus Prison -- unfortunately was appointed trustee -- Nalan Özaydın had complaints for days and went to the hospital, which was undiagnosed because he was not properly tested, he was extremely unprofessional, and then he was transferred to Mardin. After days at Mardin State Hospital, the corona had to be evacuated yesterday. Look, days later, the information that they're trying to hide comes out, there's a bad case, the court has to issue an eviction order, but there are many cases they can't see, they don't know; it's very clear. Nalan Özaydın, look how he tells us about the prison: I'll tell you there are 15 or 20 women left in small rooms in the prison. We were in a room with 15 women. It's stuffy, the conditions weren't right. There were mothers over 65, friends with chronic illness, friends with panic issues. In any case, doctors and experts say that those conditions are absolutely inappropriate, that they threaten human health. Today, my evacuation was caused by panic and the threat of the coronavirus. I hope, and I want all my friends to be released while this coronavirus is in the middle. Yeah, look, the Department of Justice doesn't know what to do right now, so he's hiding information, or he's bringing in a gag order. He brought a two-week curfew, no, two more weeks of non-visual ban. What was supposed to happen, in fact, was the immediate release of the execution law and the evacuation of the prisons, but right now, the Justice Department -- like this, the transport turns the mill around with water and -- brought a two-week ban on sightings. It increases people's anxiety. There are now 25 to 30 people in prisons for 8-10 people, and right now, look, we're all trying to fit social distances, but think about it, what social distance can we talk about if there are 25 to 30 people in 8-10 people? Again, problems with the infirmary. People get sick and they don't go to the infirmary. At the moment, the Department of Justice is in prisons, unfortunately, these practices are done a lot; they are expected to pass the fever disease in his ward. I get this complaint from a lot of prisons. There's a tendency not to take it to hospitals, as long as we have an understanding of how cases can arise. Again, quarantine practices are being highly unprofessional. Quarantine wards are being formed, and the already crowded wards are increasing. For example, when there were 35 people in the 7-man barracks in Silivri Prison, a ward was evacuated and made a quarantine ward. There are 45 people in the seven-man wards, what social distance are we talking about? Look, this is all very specific.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0037par0217	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0036par0218	I'm afraid these people are infecting each other with this disease. Look, the prisoners are extremely troubled, I get a lot of messages. Let me read a message from a citizen: My daughter was 10 months old when my wife entered prison, and now she is five years old. Your father works, and when he's done, he'll be here soon. I go to work as her mother, but I'm with her in the evenings. These kids are smart, they know there's a difference. Every day when I go to work, say hello to my parents. He began to ask, "When will he come? ' I can't stand it anymore. He says, "I can't stand it anymore." Dear friends, there are many cancer patients; now, unfortunately, they can't go to chemo because the Department of Justice has been caught unprepared, and there are major problems in hospitals. For example, look, let me read you the information of a sick prisoner: Lütfi Koç, Izmir Menemen T-type Prison Foundation in A-8, brain tumor, cervical hernia, and also, with suspicion of cancer, colonoscopy, endoscopy... the treatment is incomplete. Under these harsh conditions, his life is at stake because of the coronavirus.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0037par0221	Thank you, Mr. Gergerlioglu.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0036par0222	These patients and so on, they can't go to chemo. Let me just say it's a big problem.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0037par0224	Yes, thank you. The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan Under the Proposal for the Approval of Driver's Documents and Agreement and Agreement for Reconstruction Article 1-1 (1) was approved in Ankara on 15 March 2016 in the government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan. On behalf of the group, Mr. Bedri Yasar.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0038par0232	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Before we begin my words, I would like to ask God's mercy on our citizens who died of the coronavirus, his condolences to their relatives, and our patients in the hospital corners, and their homes, for immediate healing. As far as we're concerned, dear friends, the coronavirus is calculated by the algorithm by mathematicians who infected about 59 to 60,000 people at the end of the 10th day, assuming that one person infected three people. When you look at it from this front, we all see that it continues to spread at an extraordinary rate in the world. When we look at the rest of it, right now, the world is infected with over 800,000 people. In the same way, 38,714 people died today because of this epidemic. Of course, even though the situation in the world has come late in Turkey, unfortunately, measures have not been taken at the level we want; the case continues to rise rapidly in Turkey. I remember the first day when the Minister of Health said: "I've lost a patient. " But in the later days, we lost 3 patients, 5 patients, and 46 patients yesterday. At this rate, we'll see a lot of different results in the coming days. The latest situation in Turkey: the number of patients lost is 214, the number of cases 13.531, and the number of tests is around 15,300. All the doctors say is that we need to do a lot of tests, we need to pay attention to the test, we need to increase the number of tests, we need to identify and quarantine the current patients with the extensions of the cases we've caught. The first day, when we looked at countries that had succeeded in this work, their first act was to enforce the curfew. So since day one, we've been saying: this increase is very fast, it's spreading fast around the world; the importance of the measures we took in the first place is incredibly easy when we look at the measures we're going to take later; there's no way to prevent that from spreading. On the 1st day, we said, let's declare this curfew, at least for 21 days, before the disease reaches its full extent, but instead, we said, stay home, Turkey, and the people who had to go to work. Even today, in certain cities -- we watch television -- we see that curfews are not seriously followed. The citizen still hasn't fully grasped it. So, what did we do in Turkey? Of course, because of these epidemics, we are also experiencing serious economic problems. Now, it's been a dream to talk about export targets in our country, to talk about production targets, but the government is here for today. To this very day, especially to the production establishments, to the people who lost their jobs, to show that they're with the government. In particular, the service industry has suffered significant losses. Instead of giving them interest loans, we need to give them serious economic aid instead of loans. Now we're just explaining the economic package. The $100 billion limit you explained. You'll see, an important part of this is not going to go the other way from postponing the credits of people who are already known. Besides, we're still offering incredible conditions to get these loans. In fact, I'll tell you what, today we're all looking at the state side. Have you ever heard of private banks? Today, under the circumstances we're in today, look at the private banks, did you hear them explain any packages, any interest rates, have you ever heard them do anything about credit cards? I called a couple of banks before I got here, and they're saying that we're delaying for three months in terms of their interest rate, or we're adding the amount we're putting off to their final installments. What interest rate? Whatever the interest rate is, we're holding back on the same interest rate. This is what the government is trying to do today. With a certain interest rate, private sector banks are trying to back down to certain rates, if the government subsidizes some of it, according to its own interest rates. Dear friends, with interest payments here, these loans are the only way we'll be able to make our business more palliatively comfortable. This is similar to this: You make the 1st intersection in traffic, and the cars that pass by start to line up at the 2th intersection. So after this postponement, three months from now, you'll see, four months from now, economic issues in Turkey, bankrupt tradesmen, hundreds of unemployed people who can't bring bread to their homes, we'll face each other. The state is the social state, where it has to do pro bono, and these loans have to do it to pay the interest itself. Now, on the other hand, of course, today we must be united and united. Today is the day when we need to be united and united. Well, as we discuss this issue in Parliament today, Mr. President, since we're acting in unity and unity, this is a matter that has gained an important position in the world. Let's see, what do you think about this, what kind of suggestions do you have, what should we be paying attention to? Look today, let's talk about international agreements. You mean it, but we're talking about the country's agenda. The country's agenda today is not about international agreements, it's about the coronavirus, it's about the tradesman, it's about the workers, it's about the medics, we need to discuss them. So even if you wanted to, you couldn't get the water out of the water, but despite all of that, we say, okay, let's be united and united again. The Day of Decision is the Day of Gathering, and the Day of Gathering. Now, we've organized campaigns. Well, of course these campaigns have to happen, but I'll tell you, we're so screwed up about these campaigns that people are now trying to stop us from helping anything. What have we been through? We've had a disaster in the congregation. The same thing happened in parallel with the Lighthouse. In parallel, we experienced the issue of money collected for the fallen police in Beşiktas. In the same way, we're having problems with the money collected for the 15th of July martyrs and their veterans. Dear friends, the same, in parallel, the Redbeard receives $8 million in aid, passing it on to another foundation with 60-70,000 short. Friends, these, believe me, are destroying people's trust in the Red Sea, institutions and organizations, embedding people's emotions to help them. Of course, let's help out today. Let alone, if people want to help through municipalities, do they want to help through other institutions and NGOs... I don't think you have the right or the law to direct people how you want to help them. People have to be able to do that if they want to help through whatever NGO they want to do. Again, I'll tell you this: you know, in the campaigns of our President, whether you do it ferrily or through your companies, it's all tax-free. So I'm saying from this stand that the contributions made by those famous corporations are worth less than the bagel maker's contribution at $10. (JP) For him, dear friends, it is of no importance to help from the heart; it does not matter who the messenger is, but today, of course, we will continue these benefits, through our municipalities, through NGOs, but let's not forget today, our business, especially our farmer's... Look, I can't explain it because there's no time, Mr. President, but if you'll excuse me for a moment, there'll be a food issue behind this.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0039par0247	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0038par0248	I am, Mr. President. At the end of March, it's October. In the fields, our farmers are now planting their crops. Look, from now on, we all know that the more strategic our defence industry is, the more strategic the respirator you see in health, the more strategic those masks are, the more strategic the food is, and the more important part of spending today is food. Well, then, the next one today... maybe the existing stock will be able to take it away, but, you know, we're also dealing with some very serious imports in agriculture. Let's not rank it here. So today, let's support our farmer, and support the farmer's inputs, and let's make a contribution to the price of diesel, the price of fertilizer, especially to the numbers based on raw materials, so at least for food safety, he says that the country should have no serious problems in the coming days, and I salute your high delegation.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0039par0251	The second request on the matter belongs to Mr. Oya Ersoy on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on behalf of the groups.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0040par0253	Mr. President, I salute the General Assembly. Now, according to the world map of the coronavirus epidemic, Turkey was in the 15th place four days ago, and three days ago we came to 14th place, two days ago 13th and now 10th place as of yesterday. From the moment the news of the virus was heard in China, it was at the end of December -- we thought it would never come to us, and that's how we acted. Then, in January and February, this began to be heard in all the surrounding countries, and the world began to talk about the epidemic, but in Turkey, power was dealing with other things. What was he doing for three months? Libya, Syria, sending refugees to Europe were being dealt with in this country. Look, the tests of the umres who were quarantined in Ankara have been positive, and as of today, social media has seen images of them being sent to their own homes, who are not positive, and in each of them there are dozens of people waiting for hours on buses in bus stations. Now, I'd like to ask you, even though you know the danger of the plague -- by the way, the only thing that power did well was to form a Science Council -- did that have any warning of the Science Council going to Umra? And whether or not you're listening to any of this... Secondly, football matches; now, football games haven't been canceled, and there's been some positive tests around here. Now, 21,000 people came to the country, and they scattered all over the country, and now you've lost control. Here, for years, secularism has been vital. We call it secularism, and I want to express it once again -- on this. Yes, everyone sees that if we were living in a secular country, the power would not hesitate to make a decision about it. So far, no measure has been taken to protect the people from the corona. We've been talking about these platforms for two weeks. Let's take precautions to protect the people from the corona. And what did you do? You've invited the public to individual responsibility, you've given $100 billion to the bosses under the economic Stabilisation Shield, and what happened after that law last week? You've narrowed the VAT to 1 percent on long-distance airline tickets. Now, as of this week, you've had to cancel the planes. Yes, you're moving without account and without books, you don't realize the gravity of the situation, you did it just to fund airlines, you encouraged interstate traffic against the virus, and in the middle, the flights have been canceled. Once again, I insist you stop saving the company and save the people. And now you're making calls for help, and you're releasing them under the name of help. Look, this is the message from BOTAŞ to their cell phone; this is the announcement of the Supreme Court. What you call forgiveness is voluntary. ▪ Not by releasing the release you call forgiveness. Now, in the interest of the people's lives, you've opened the Canal Istanbul tender; and now the public is concerned about their lives, and you've started a fund-raiser in this country because you want to protect your own power. Any government, if it were a normal government, wouldn't be dealing with those who would get help, organize solidarity, thank you, and instead of dealing with corona, they wouldn't be dealing with those who would. Now, Noble has confessed, and he said: "I am gathering help. If you say, you want to create a new government. This is a confession. The public is already showing their own solidarity. It's not your job to get help here, it's your job to do it. For example, if you want to create a budget, in order to fight off the coronavirus epidemic, here you go, first start with the companies where you've wiped out billions of taxpayer debt. There's a list of companies here, and it's all over social media. Take a good look at who's reported to what companies, what's the agreed amount, and what's the discount percentage?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0041par0259	Don't fund social media, it's bad news.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0040par0260	Genghis Construction, the discount rate is 100 percent, the tax is all pardoned. For example, Day-Earn Construction is the same, TIVTÜRK is the same. Yes, dear MPs, it's not just these. At the same time, stop paying your companies for bridges, highways, and airports that we don't use. There's an unemployment fund in this country, there's an asset fund, there's a reserve bill with that shroud money, those funds are for today, use them for the public. So I say, "Use the people's budget for the people. The people want what is rightfully theirs, not charity, but charity for the people, and give what is rightfully theirs." Use this budget for public basic vital needs, food health, nutritional safety. Yeah, corporate bosses don't die in three months, but it's obvious what to do to keep the public alive: one: non-critic sectors will be paid off. Look, this is a contract signed by construction workers in Omerli, Istanbul. In this contract, the workers are told: "If there is any illness or death, you will sign a pledge that the company is not responsible. The workers are threatened to be fired if they do not sign it. There are various photos that I won't show now, but while we're sitting here maintaining physical distance, the workers continue to do their work side by side in piles, bottom to bottom in the tail of the mess halls. Two, layoffs will be banned immediately. Postponing bills will not be the answer, but the basic needs of the public will be free of electricity, water, natural gas. With the use of just one portion of the more than 131 billion dollars in the unemployment fund for what people eat and drink, 15 million workers can receive minimum wage support for three months. Now, yes, the corona treats everyone equally, but not everyone is equal in detection and treatment. You're the source of the inequality, the health environment you created. The rich get tested at the slightest sign, and if they're positive, they go to five-star hospitals and get treatment. And you know what happens to the people? Here, these are falling. İstanbul Copperville Dr. Sadi Guest Training and Research Hospital. Here, these are the emergency rooms, where all the patients are together again.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0042par0268	The hospital denied them.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0040par0269	Look, if that's what you're saying, come, let's go to the hospitals from tomorrow, one of all the party groups, right here, right now -- there's me, there's us. Let's not wait till tomorrow, let's get the hell out of here, let's go to all the public hospitals, what's the situation?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0043par0270	Let's go for a ride.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0040par0271	In Sadi Guest Hospital, the chief physician walks around without a mask and gives masks to health workers there. You will use it for a month. It's called drinking, it's called cleaning with alcohol.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0044par0272	No way!
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0040par0273	Come on, let's go check it out. Now, there are those who are playing with Covid-19 tests with laughter. Murat Sandzak, the nephew of Yandash Ethhem Sandzak, plays with tea coffee, along with tests not found by the citizen. Again, because of his friends at the Ministry of Health, there are those who have been hospitalized and tested, like Abdulkadir Özkan. I want to ask you, what does it mean that private hospitals are being declared to be a pandemic hospital? Because private hospitals are still taking money from people. What's to be done here is to strengthen the healthcare system, provide everyone with no money, reachable and qualified health care immediately, right now, right now. But you keep doing what you know. Now, so far, you've opened up the natural areas of conservation. Construction has begun at Lake Salda, you have taken 8 HDP mayors and appointed trustees. You're trying to silence the truth-tellers with a threat of detention, police, a judgment bat. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm asking for an extension.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0045par0279	Finish your words, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0040par0280	You have brought access to social media accounts shared by the Izmir Medical Room. Again, instead of taking pictures of himself in social media accounts and listening to what the truck driver said, you took him into custody. The truck driver said: "Stay home." You say, "How will it be?" I'm not retired, I'm not an officer, I'm not rich; I'm a worker. If I do not work, there is no bread. These words are true, and if you are confident, you will not be so impatient with the truth. What you're going to do is take the necessary precautions. I'm running out of time here, so I'm just gonna say it. You can't run the process with administrative decisions, regulations, decrees. Look, there's an article coming in today, and there's no longer an application of the Secretary of the Watch here. If the ministers don't do their job, if we don't do ours as MPs, get up to the health workers, the cleaning workers, and you can't tell them to work on the front lines.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0045par0283	Mr. Ersoy, thank you. Your extra time is up.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0040par0284	So what we're going to do is we're giving money out of our salary. It's not that if we don't work here, it's that lawmakers don't get paid. Here, the public needs charity, not charity, but their rights. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0046par0287	Mr. President, may I make a statement?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0047par0288	Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0046par0291	Mr. President, I didn't know where to fix it.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0048par0292	You're gonna fix yourself first.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0046par0293	If you'll excuse me, I think I'm allowed to talk for five or ten minutes because it's been a very awkward conversation. Now we don't get angry, we don't get offended, we watch it with a smile. So it's all problems, it's all out of the question. Look, Mr. President, for example, the Umress...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0048par0295	You're laughing at the way you're gonna cry, the way you're gonna cry. Human life; you will protect human life, not your power.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0049par0296	Shame on you! Let the opposition speak!
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0050par0297	Mr. Ersoy, look, there was no interference while you were talking, please...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0051par0298	Ma'am, if you don't listen, maybe you won't understand if you're wrong.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0052par0299	It's not the lady...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0051par0300	Sir, you know what?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0052par0301	Just call me acting.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0051par0302	Congressman, if you're listening, maybe you'll be able to revisit it if you've made a mistake, give me a minute. Look, the Umrecists have been disbanded, the measures have not been taken. This is a total lie, Mr. President. Since this was the first issue, all of our providers so far have been quarantined in their homes, quarantined in the privacy of our family physicians.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0053par0305	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0051par0306	During the next expansion, all of our providers -- thousands of expressed -- were housed in our dorms. At the end of 14 days, if the tests were negative, they were sent home...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0054par0307	No...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0051par0308	He was sent today, Murat Bey. We're in pursuit again. If it's positive today, the quarantine period has been extended. So it seems strange to me, Mr. President, that when we have friends who visit many different countries of the world, when we have citizens, it's just a risk to one social sector. Other than that, the claim that the bosses were paid $100,000, that's a lie. All he's worth is our worker, our employee, our middle income group. If that's the case, isn't it the law that allows the distribution of 100 billion in one day with all of our alliances in this House?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0055par0312	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0051par0313	That's when your Group Presidents signed off on giving 100 billion to the rich last week. Is that even possible? Either you don't follow the Council or you don't follow your party.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0056par0314	Are the Group Vice Presidents running the country?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0051par0315	They were all arrangements in favor of our citizens, all our friends, all our parties together, including you.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0057par0316	You're making a bag, forced, because it's in the public interest...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0051par0317	Other than that, Mr. President, these are the companies that are subject to tax pardons from social media. Would a deputy share papers with social media, for God's sake! You ask the Minister, you examine him, you buy him, you share him.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0058par0318	None of our questions are being answered. The ministers aren't answering the questions.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0051par0319	If it's wrong, we'll follow it together and condemn it, but if you take a document that's been denied on social media every day and share it as a fact every day, it can't be explained by the legislature of Congress. Please, Mr. Deputy.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0059par0320	How is that a problem?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0051par0321	Other than that, Mr. President, he showed me another document, orator, the hospital photo.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0060par0322	There is no such procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0059par0323	Is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0051par0324	The hospital denied it, so here's the certificate.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0059par0326	Mr. President, he's responding to everything. Is that even possible? Matter, matter...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0051par0327	Mr. President, I couldn't finish.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0061par0328	Finish your words, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0062par0329	Let's do a political square, let's do a political square, let's discuss it together.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0051par0330	Well, well, well. Are you uncomfortable?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0063par0331	No, he's talking about this conversation, Mr. President. It's against the rules.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0051par0332	Mr. President, the hospital denies it, the hospital says it doesn't exist. He still shares it here as a document. Congressman, this is a serious establishment. Go share it on Twitter, it won't work here. You can't do that with false documents!
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0064par0333	Twitter is a much more serious establishment right now than you said.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0051par0334	Other than that, there is opportunity for the rich, and there is no means for the poor. Look, it may be in the old Turkey, but now all of our people -- rich-poor, BUG-KUR-KUR -- can take advantage of the same hospital, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0065par0336	Mr. President, he tells you to tease, to insult, to answer everything.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0066par0337	Right now, Turkey is watching us, watching us, listening, following us.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0067par0338	Excuse me, folks, excuse me. Well, from now on, you talk, we don't answer.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0068par0340	You talk, you sit till morning, you talk.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0067par0341	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... ARE YOU going to answer every criticism?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0068par0343	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0067par0344	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0068par0346	Mr. President, I demand an unlimited speech, in advance.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0067par0347	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0069par0348	Let him talk for two minutes.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0068par0349	So instead of opening one minute, one minute, let me talk to you indefinitely, Mr. President. That can't happen! Now...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0069par0351	Should I take the stand, then?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0068par0352	Get out.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0069par0353	But that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0068par0354	I wonder why you took your word for it. It's not for 60, it's not for teasing. Mr. President, we can't run the House by commenting on every speaker in ten minutes, using his tolerance for the members of the Group, out of respect for the group, Mr. Turan. Yeah, there's a tease, there's a contribution, okay, with respect and understanding... we're not shelf diamonds here, look, because of the time economy and the threat of corona, we're working hard and hard to get the House to work fast.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0070par0355	He's lying, he's lying.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0068par0356	Who's lying?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0070par0357	Not you.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0071par0358	Not you, not you.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0072par0359	You're liars, liars.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0073par0360	Your life is a lie, your life.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0074par0361	Sir, if you don't agree, I have something to say now, Mr. President. We're returning it as much as we can. He's lying. He writes $5,000. If there's a lawsuit, you should know.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0075par0364	He's not telling the truth.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0076par0365	They're threatening me.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0077par0366	Mr. Altay, you've found Mr. Erim. That's why.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0078par0367	Now, I've held a press conference today at the Grand National Assembly Press Bureau of Turkey, where we're going to, of course, do, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to do, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're One of them was that the Governor of Adıyaman wrote: "Yes, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President, who has started the National Solidarity Campaign, especially for living on wages, was presented below by Covid-19 donor accounts, to provide additional support for our small-income citizens who were victims of the Covid-19 disease, to provide additional support for our small-income citizens -- we are sufficient for our campaigns, Turkey. Mr. President is angry too. The state does not want such tribute. He does not make himself a beggar in this matter. But why do we have Congress? That's what Congress is for. When we brought this matter up in Parliament today, the same Ahmet Alagöz published a new Tamim at 2:05 p.m. immediately, asking that this time not be sent to the principals of the decontaminations. I'm addressing this Ahmet Alagöz. I mean, I don't want to mess up my mouth, but I'm just saying I'm going to give up occupation, hypocrisy, immorality. So, I don't know which camera we had before -- for this article in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it's called vulgarity. When it's said that Ahmet Alagöz -- wrote in the name of the Governor, he could be the Director of National Education -- he immediately corrected it. That, my friends, is what Congress is for. Everything is spoken in the House, and the bureaucrats of conduct or execution are turned. Mr. Turan, I've taken this opportunity to take a break from every word, every critical speech, and I've made that clear, but it's good, it's good, it's good. Here, Mr. Bulent Turan, these problems are getting better later than later because the House is a place of speech. Let the people speak, there is freedom of thought, there is freedom of expression, let him speak. If they criticize you, if there's any unfair criticism, come out and answer. Besides, you're the first party. You say, "Let's make this much international agreement in such a short amount of time." Then you occupy the Parliament's time and shift with unnecessary polemics. I don't think that's true either. Mr. President, I thank you for your leniency and your respect for freedom of speech, sir.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0079par0370	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0080par0371	Mr. Turan, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Tukyaki is next. Mr. Tircayi, please.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0081par0374	Mr. President, first, the Vice President of the Justice and Development Party Party has said that you are lying to our orator. This is a taunt, our orator will use the right to answer from the bench. There are also words that accuse our group, and I'd like to say a few words to him, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0080par0375	He did not say, but he said, "What he said is not true."
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0082par0376	No.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0083par0377	I didn't say liar, Mr. President, the documents are wrong. I said, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0084par0378	What you're saying is a lie, what you're saying is a lie.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0085par0379	That doesn't mean he's a liar.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0086par0380	No.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0087par0381	Oh, you're making it soft, Mayor.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0088par0382	I think it's your kindness. That's how we understand it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0089par0383	Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0088par0384	Thank you. Now, our MP asks if the document is real. So there's a document like this going around, saying that you've brought 90-95 percent tax pardons to these big companies, 100 percent. If this is true or wrong, you will answer this question, there is no such thing. But the real problem is that everyone knows that these five big companies have all the tenders in Turkey.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0090par0386	Yeah, a five-pack.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0088par0387	So let's say, in the last ten years, if there's been a $1 trillion tender in 15 years, all of this 1 trillion is given to these five companies, almost all of it. Is that true or not?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0091par0388	That's 100% true.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0088par0389	So other than that, there are no companies in this country, no one knows how to build.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0092par0390	Come on, answer this.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0088par0391	You make the offer the way they want it, everybody knows it, you withdraw the offers they don't like, and you correct them, and that's a clear fact. Now, about the hospital, there's one hospital image going around. One of them says "Urfa" one says "Admin" one says "another city." It's not a problem. Isn't that the hospital, the bus stop, where was that shot? Isn't this an image from after the coronavirus? Are our hospitals empty, no patients in the ICU? I mean, are our friends or lawmakers saying something wrong when they're showing this pathetic state of hospitals? It's not a hospital, it's a hospital, but in the end, everyone knows that our hospitals, emergency services, intensive care are packed, so we just want to take the necessary precautions. Now, everyone supported 100 billion dollars of aid together. You say, you brought a bag of laws, and there was a particular clause in the law on the support of SMEs, and we're explaining a 100 billion-dollar package, as if it were something new, before the law was passed. So you filed an order, you raised that 15 billion to 30 billion, 45 billion, no one opposed that support, it's so obvious. So I don't think it's right for you to reflect as if we support the transfer of money to the capital, as if it were our proposal. Now, last but not least, so everything's pink, everything's sunny, and we're exaggerating?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0093par0395	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0088par0396	Hey, guys, check out the case numbers, we've got 2,000 new patients a day. Do you know what numbers we're going to hit in ten days, fifteen days, twenty days? Everyone in this country is genuinely concerned about this. That's why I'm calling on you to take some serious precautions about this kind of criticism. Oh, and, uh, last but not least, the corporations are barely raising money, folks. They're picking up substrates. Do you know who's doing this? He's doing the Supreme Court, so let the judges and prosecutors help him not to be less than 100 TL. As they say, the Supreme Court is setting the track, friends, we're going through a period like this. And you make it sound like we're exaggerating our criticism, like we're saying a bunch of lies, and I don't think that's true. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0094par0399	Come on, that's enough. Take five, Mayor, take a break.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0095par0400	Sir.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0094par0401	That's enough. Our speaker is waiting.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0095par0402	I'll listen to Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0096par0403	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0097par0404	Mr. President, I want a word against bullying.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0095par0405	Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0098par0407	I won't answer our friends as HDP's Deputy Director of the Group. But I'd like to say that Mr. Engin knows best how much I respect the economy of Usul. We didn't get a single word in the contracts today -- although we targeted 14 of them. Other than that, there was bullying, we had the right to stand by the charter, we didn't go out, we talked about it.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0099par0408	I say come out, speak. You talk here for ten minutes, you talk there for two.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0098par0409	So we're careful not to talk too much. But you're going to make a false document, you're going to make a false statement, you're going to give a Twitter document, you're going to interfere with our conversation for a minute and a half, that's not true, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0099par0410	No, not one and a half.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0098par0411	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0100par0412	Thank you. And while we're doing these interventions, let's stress that the speech content of the speakers isn't true, but if you say it's a lie and promise to make an argument or a taunt, don't give up the bench.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0098par0414	Mr. President, it's not true.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0100par0415	Here you go, Mr. Ersoy. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0098par0417	Mr. President, just a minute... on what grounds is he speaking?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0101par0418	What does compensation pay, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0102par0419	Five thousand liras goes.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0101par0420	Okay, 5,000 liras.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0103par0421	Mr. President, if the lady is going to answer, which I do, I respect, then why did the other friend answer?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0102par0422	He's lying. You said it.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0104par0423	If you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0103par0424	We're talking about the same thing.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0104par0425	No.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0103par0426	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0105par0427	He's lying. You said he's lying.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0106par0428	No, I don't think you...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0107par0429	Friends, let me...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0106par0430	I'm lying to...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0108par0431	We'll get a lawsuit for 5 grand.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0107par0432	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0106par0433	Since it's back to question and answer...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0107par0434	Mr. Turan, let me tell you something.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0109par0435	Let him speak, Mr. President, but it's not true. It's the Civil Code.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0107par0436	Excuse me. Since Mr. Oluç and Mr. Beştaş left for a meeting, they have appointed Mr. Günay and Mr. Tiryaki, acting acting chairman of the group.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0109par0437	I know, I'm the vice president of the group. Please, Mr. President, this warning is unnecessary, and it's not necessary to say that I already know about our friend, Mr. Deputy President of the Group.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0107par0439	So I'm not supposed to make a statement because of what you're saying?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0109par0440	But what I'm saying is: Mr. Group Vice President gave the answer to the criticism of the speech, so why is the deputy speaking?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0107par0441	Mr. Group Vice President also said that because of collusion, our friend has a say in the matter.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0110par0442	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0111par0443	No way, he even opposes you.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0110par0444	It was over by now.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0112par0445	Then, Mr. Engin says Mr. Bulent talks too much.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0113par0446	Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0114par0447	Is it over?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0115par0448	It's over.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0113par0449	Mr. Ersoy, it's over.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0114par0452	I'll just say this. You can't call anything I show here a lie by your testimony. These people know exactly what the truth is, who's telling the truth. That's why he's looking at the Turkish Medical Association, not your mouth.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0116par0453	Get out of here! The Turkish Medical Corps doesn't even consider it.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0114par0454	No, he's looking at what the doctors say, and that's why you have to ban it. Let's just leave it at that. Look, I'm warning you, you're laughing right now, laughing at the way you're gonna cry.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0117par0455	I'm laughing, and you're offering me a Twitter document.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0114par0456	This is not a process that requires you to repeat what you've done at any time. You can't protect your own power by repeating what you've done in the face of the economic crisis.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0118par0457	Get out of here!
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0114par0458	Yeah, yeah. ...you can't do this process, this process of life and death, by handing out alms through Neoliberal policies, using religion to feed these people. That's why the Clave must take the necessary measures for the public's health, that's clear. This Parliament has to take these precautions. And the one who didn't take it...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0118par0460	Come on, here you go. Come on, take it.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0114par0461	Come on, take it. What do you mean, you have to take it. If you're sitting there in the name of the people, you'll have to take it together. It's obvious what to do. Come on, let's do each of these things one at a time. If you don't believe what I've just shown you -- what's this Congress stand for, how many times each group has submitted a motion to investigate -- I propose again. Come on, let's get out of here right now. I'm in. I'm in. I'm inviting you. Have a good day at work.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0119par0464	Mr. President, Twitter is not a document.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0120par0465	Mr. Turan, Twitter has noted that there will be no document.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0119par0466	Thank you, Mr. President, you're the best.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0120par0470	On behalf of the groups, the last speaker is Mr. Fikret Şahin on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0121par0473	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Before I begin my speech, I ask God's mercy to our citizens who died of the coronavirus epidemic, and to our citizens who continue their treatments for immediate healing. Yeah, well, like all over the world, we're trying to fight off the coronavirus epidemic in our country. I say, "We're working. Is this fight enough?" And I have to ask, because when we look at it as a physician, I'm afraid I don't think we're struggling enough. We've got some loose ends, and we're gonna have to wrap this up as soon as possible. We can also add these defects under two topics: one, the shortcomings and the things that need to be completed in health care; and the other, the things we need to do in terms of social services. At the beginning of the shortfalls in health care, first of all, the lack of personal protective equipment from our medical staff, our health workers, who are struggling with this epidemic at the very first stage of their lives, is coming, and it is vital that these shortcomings be completed immediately. On this occasion, health workers thank my friends for their service, and I express my deepest gratitude and respect for them all. On the other hand, patients with coronavirus infections and hospitals with chronic diseases are the same, unfortunately, they haven't left. And since he didn't leave, the risky group and the infectious group have to serve at the same hospital, and the infection is increasing. At the same time, the health workers, who were at the greatest risk during this outbreak, are also facing this infection. Therefore, there is a great benefit in leaving the hospitals without wasting time. That separates both the risky group and the contagion group, and in the future, we protect some of the medical staff from the risk and protect our extra health personnel from chronic diseases in hospitals. Another thing is, it's recently come to the attention of a lot of public opinion, and we're getting reports of reservations about private hospitals accepting patients with coronaviruses. At this point, the Ministry must take the necessary precautions immediately. In addition, our citizens can't even apply to the hospital for a normal health problem, and in order to benefit from these private hospitals, I'd like to express immediately that the Ministry must remove the additional contribution to private hospitals in this process at least. Again, we are suffering especially from intensive care. It is a good thing that the hospitals, which were closed when the city hospitals opened, were immediately re-employed and converted into intensive care units. Again, the epidemic has shown us shortcomings in the field of social services. See, this epidemic, like an earthquake, is a disaster, a disaster, like a flood. And this disaster is a disaster, just as our citizens of Kızılay meet the need for shelter, food and hygiene in disaster situations, and unfortunately, we don't see Redia in the field during this process, and Redia has to do its job. We see the Red Sea, which we can't see in Turkey, by ship sending help to Italy, flying help to Spain. Look, you know what Trump said yesterday: we started making ventilation devices. First we will provide for ourselves, and then we will give it to the countries that need it. I want to see the Red Sea as a member of parliament serving my own poor citizens in my own country first. Let him send the ship to Italy later, and send the ship to Spain later. By the way, Redbear, yes, while we're bringing out help, citizens are also waiting for help from the government. What's the power doing? The government is also looking to the citizens to make sacrifices by opening a charity campaign. Yes, I'd like to address the ruling authorities here: look, do you know who citizens expect to sacrifice? With the public-private cooperation model, the Treasury guaranteed foreign currency, the highway, the bridge, the tunnel, the airport and the city hospitals that you're paying for, that's what a bunch of contractors and contractors expect to sacrifice in this period, citizen. Again, who does he expect sacrifice from? He's using the red to avoid taxes, tax evasion, waiting to sacrifice natural gas and electricity distribution companies that don't know what's going on. At least we expect the citizens to postpone their bills for three months at zero interest.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0122par0481	Finish your words, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0121par0482	And again, our citizen is awaiting the sacrifice of the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey, TÜSIAAD, MISIAAD, institutions such as TESK to prevent citizens from becoming unemployed. While the citizen is waiting for sacrifice, you are campaigning for Turkey, which is enough for us. Yes, we're enough because we're a nation that gives us the War of Salvation, but unfortunately you haven't had five contractors in 18 years. What do you say? The world is greater than five. The time has come for you to show that Turkey is greater than five. We'll see that Turkey is bigger than five contractors. We're asking those contractors to sacrifice on behalf of the citizen, and we're following it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit01spe0123par0486	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0123par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 76th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 85. Commission? He's in position. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. On behalf of the group, the first word on the matter belongs to Mr. Ibrahim Halil Oral. Here you go, Mr. Oral.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0124par0010	Mr. President, I have made a promise on behalf of the good PARTI Group regarding international contracts. I salute the General Assembly. Respected lawmakers, due to the coronavirus, which affected our country as a global epidemic, last night's data shows that 13.531 citizens have been infected, unfortunately 214 of our citizens have lost their lives. On this occasion, I offer the mercy of the Lord God to our fallen citizens, and my condolences to our relatives and to our nation. In the meantime, I'd like to thank God for the best efforts and sacrifices of our health workers. I would also like to express a few issues that I would like to consider a constructive criticism of the epidemic. First of all, all of our medical staff, especially our family physicians, suffer from a shortage of sterile masks, glasses, and overalls. Mr. Secretary, we're sending him. He's calling us 10 or 15 health workers a day, and they're expressing their distress in this direction. Our pharmacist friends, our brothers, tell themselves that doctors are constantly coming to ask for masks and disinfectant, and they're trying to pay for it. This is always the case in Ankara, Istanbul, Kırıkkale, and other cities. Our health workers are struggling in a very different way. In the fight against an invisible enemy, it's like not being able to deliver a mask to our army, no guns to the army in the Battle of Sakarya, no bullets to the army. Another issue is to inform your relatives. At Ankara City Hospital, we're not informed of any of the patients I've personally followed at Zakii Tahir Burak Hospital, nor are any of the relatives of the patients involved. This causes fear and panic in the country. At least not permanently, but at certain times, relatives should be informed. In the same way, there is a pollution of information related to the burials of our dead citizens. Some of our citizens report that burials are made without information, and even the relatives of the deceased have no knowledge of their coronaviruses. Social media sees images of a lack of accuracy, burials on roadsides, open spaces. They should be identified as the original lining and explained to the community the right information. It is imperative that our Ministry of Health, on all these issues, conduct examinations and solutions. Precious lawmakers have created an epidemic of health crisis, but as we all know, there are economic dimensions, the whole world faces this economic dimension. However, many states, especially European countries, take and take measures that do not victimize the citizens. In fact, the Turkish Republics, whose economy is behind us, for example, in Kazakhstan, pay the health workers up to 20 salaries, and in Uzbekistan, many public services are free of charge, and in Azerbaijan, there is a hedge fund of antivirals in the state vault. In Turkey, the situation is a disaster. The state presented palliative solutions to the measures it described as an economic shield, saying it would provide ease for the capital and cologne for the citizens. He sees large capital conveniences, but the citizen hasn't even reached his cologne yet. After Europe, there are few cases in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, Azerbaijan, Kyrgyztan, where curfew is declared, let everyone still declare their own State of Emergency in Turkey. On top of that, we heard from Mr. Home Secretary yesterday about an application that will not be forgotten throughout history, that will never be removed from the nation's conscience. The accounts of solidarity campaigns by Ankara and İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality, won by the National Alliance, have been blocked before the government. Allah, the Lord of the Qur'an, directs you to race for good in the Qur'an, while the power is in the mind of a single party, but we are the only ones to gather it. Honourable MPs, the City Code is open. The municipalities can raise donations in a way that needs no comment. In the middle of this, it's a clear mistake to implement the legal regulation of civil society organizations today with fraud. In Islamic law, civil law and universal law, as I've always said, two things are different. One is intention, the other is error. If the Ministry of Interior has done this by mistake today, then Mr. Musavat Dervisoglu, our Deputy Group President, must correct his mistake by calling it the April 1 prank, as stated at the press conference. (PARTI and CHP rows) Ha, if the situation is deliberate, no one will forgive me, it's a crime against the people's feelings of solidarity, a crime against humanity, a misdemeanor, or even a diversion. Precious MPs, in political science, the state is a social contract. For hundreds, thousands of years, people have been providing protection by handing over some of their rights and wills to the government. This protection includes protection from health or economic crisis, as well as protection from internal or external enemies. The citizen pays taxes, and the state serves the citizen with that tax. Today the AK PARTY government has reached the point of breaking this social contract for thousands of years. If the citizen is going to declare his own State of Emergency, what's the point of the state if he's going to settle his own economic crisis by investing in the IBAN number given by the President. (PARTI and CHP rows) Especially for a long time, such as the Turkish state, our nation, which has a state tradition that lasts from Huns, Skys, Ottomans, and Republics, will never accept it. You will give $200 out of your salary to the public institutions, to our officers, and you will give 500 lira. It is a clear and obvious failure of the government. He's already paying a lot of taxes out of his citizen's salary, and he's going to donate it -- I'm telling you, in the face -- obligatory? Is that how it works, guys? And when it comes to trying to block the aid of opposition municipalities, it's never possible for us to think that you mean well. The AK PARTY, so to speak, is in politics with the virus, forming a coronavirus alliance. Our nation could no longer tolerate biological or political viruses. At least in this period, the President must remember that he is not only the president of the EC PARTI, but 82 million people are presidents, and that he should do politics according to him. The government is officially trying to turn this virus into a political Ranta, and how do I hurt the opposition? It's moving with its problems -- with gloves and masks -- plans to tender the Canal Istanbul execution behind closed doors. In fact, if it didn't, we'd be in a position to discuss the Guardian Law Proposal.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0125par0022	Finish your words, Mr. Oral.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0124par0023	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey is an ancient state; it is not a tent state; it is not a banana republic; it is not a person's state at all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I share these views with you, I salute our grand delegation, wish our nation well, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0126par0027	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0127par0028	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0126par0031	Mr. President, I listened carefully to the valuable speaker. Look, I don't want to take up technical debate, I don't want to take up your time, but there's a legal obstacle, we talked about it yesterday, and I'm leaving it somewhere, but on the other hand, it's a process that's already voluntary, and we don't find anything else to be done right. A donation is an act of the heart. Our President has an invitation, to all our people who have the opportunity. A campaign has been launched for our poor people, who want it, who want it, who want it from their heart, who supports it from their heart, except for a coercion, pressure, and so on, and so forth, we deny all the claims.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0128par0032	You have expressed your heartfelt support, thank you, our disciple.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0127par0036	Yes, Mr. Basian, please.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0129par0037	Dear friends, I salute everyone. The world is really crossing a threshold, and maybe a few years from now, we'll start saying, "It's before the corona and after the corona." Because the world is facing itself a little bit. Of course, as the world faces itself, its politics, its form of politics -- this disease may not be a human invention -- but it's actually a result of people's approach to nature, such as viruses and epidemics -- unfortunately in Turkey, we see a desire to face the AKP power itself, its politics, its approach to this period, as many of our friends have expressed, that this is a political opportunity, the opportunity to crush opposition, the opportunity to organize its own ideology in society, and the impact of the future election. Dear friends, I'm going to talk about two things about this: one, we know, like so many other issues, that this corona issue has health-effects, it will have social impacts; psychologically, it will have economic impacts; but in this House, there will be women, who are very little talked about, in fact, on the agenda of power, like other budgets, who will be the most affected by this issue. Now, there is a situation that has been researched in many of the world's examples and reflected in statistics, which is that after the corona is a pandemic, or after the epidemic is widespread, stay at home. After the calls are made, of course, stay in the house as a party. We express their calls in the loudest voice. Once again, stay in your homes, especially to our people, and the power against the corona will not protect you, so let us call again. Of course, we advocate staying at home the most, but, as you know, the most violent acts of violence against women are inside houses because the perpetrators of violence and murder against women are generally -- women's wives, lovers. In the world, violence against women has increased by 90 percent, especially with the spread of the outbreak in Wuhan, China. Look, 18 women have been murdered since March 11th, and 12 of them have been inside the house, with male violence and 12 of them. So, here are the women who were slaughtered in the houses that we called in, which we showed them to be safe. But unfortunately, so far, on the ruling front, there is no preparation, there is no study, and even the mechanisms that exist are not properly and properly run. Look, in many of the women's shelters, women are now required to report for assault as a condition of admission to shelters. The police will take the assault report. That's why women are so conflicted about going here, and they can't go. There's no safe environment in the women's shelters right now. From that point on, women's shelters are not a mechanism for women to go to, to apply to. Hello, there's a line 183. Hello, the 183 Line -- our friends have tried to determine that -- it's not women and specialists who opened it. So women don't get information from experts they can get information from and women they can trust again. With the discovery of this coronavirus, there is another conclusion in statistics that many of the women who have already worked unsecuredly have either been relieved of their jobs or forced to leave for free. The main reason women already accept violence is because many times they can't manage themselves financially. When a woman is violent, she has to have an economic ability to stand on her feet to get away from the scene of violence, but unfortunately, women don't get the opportunity to get away from their violence when they're out of work, and they have to be forced to face this violence, to be exposed. Now, we would like to call from here one more time: the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services must be established in this process, to prevent violence against this woman in all cities. The Alo 183 Line must be seriously activated, and when women arrive, they must be able to get information and access it from experts. There is Law 6284, but since most of the courts are now closed and there are no immediate acts of violence against women or against women or children, the women who apply for this law cannot benefit from its protection. In that sense, crimes against women and children, especially women and women, should be accepted from urgent jobs for the execution of Law number 6284, and this should be made public. I mean, women need to know that when they get violent, when they go, they can take advantage of that protection under the law. The bunkers... as we've seen in the examples of the Earth, with this pandemic spreading further, the bunkers are somehow quarantined, and in that respect, the shelters need to be increased, as a result of the violence that women have experienced, to create places where they can go and settle. Now, we're making these calls, that's what the power has to do. Now, what does power do? Let's say we're going to be opportunistic again. Last week, on March 22nd, eight trustees were appointed to our municipality, including our Batman municipality. There are a lot of objections from the ruling party when we say that the trustees are misogynists, that we're against women, that we're against Kurds, but I'll tell you what the trustee's first actions are, let our people appreciate it. The first task is to remove the Kurdish button on the municipality's fucking website. What's the explanation? There we are making a new arrangement, a technical issue. When there is a technical issue, the website is closed, but the removal of the first Kurdish, in fact, reveals clearly what is in the background of why trustees are assigned to municipalities, in the background of brains, in the secret agenda of power. Again, what was one of your first activities, my friends? We're expressing an attack on our women's system, our co-chair system, and one of the consequences is that we've seen it in the trustee in Batman again: a man is being led by a woman's administration. It seems that wherever a woman sees a man, she's got to put a man on her head, a man to speak, a man to make decisions for her. Here, it's actually a sign of power and misogynistic politics. That's what all the trustees did when they first arrived. Look, I'm just saying the statistics are, why would a woman be assigned to a woman's office these days in need of mechanisms, predicting that violence against women would increase so much, that women's murders would increase? So, this is, in fact, what we're looking at as a sign of what kind of attack on the system we want to set up in the local government. The same was done in previous trustees, when the trustee first arrived, the women's institutions were either shut down or disabled. I think you might actually get healthier results if you came up with an idea of how to avoid this violence rather than dealing with our female institutions. Again, like I said, what was the AKP doing in power when we were offering so many proposals? Two of our co-mayors were detained; again, there was no concrete evidence, friends. I have repeatedly expressed here the indictments, the questions asked about our arrested co-mayors, who were taken into custody. Two things were asked here: First, the actions and activities they participated in during the pre-election process, their propaganda work; secondly, our co-chair system was asked: did you apply this co-chair system? Did you do this? This is not a covert job, my friends. As HDP, as a result of our great struggle here in this Parliament -- the Political Party's Law. In all the propaganda we did during the local elections as HDP, we have stated that we will run with equal management of women and men with an equal mind. This wasn't a covert study; there was no public harm in it, but the AKP is developing these attacks on setting up the single, conservative, Kurdish enemy, misogynist system that it wants to create for itself, but let's say again from here: what we, the HDP, want to create is a democratic, woman liberal, communist local government perspective, and we are not going to step back from the point of view, nor are we going to be involved in the social roles that you've put us in, as you dictated to us.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0130par0051	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0129par0052	As women, we will continue to deal with both your misogynistic, anti-female politics and this gender discrimination that you want to establish in society. The municipalities were ours, and we'll be back in our co-chair system. You can have your manager, we've told you before, those women managers are ours. There, we will continue to promote our politics, our perspective, and solidarity with women. Thank you, guys.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0130par0055	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Engin Altay. Here you go, Altay.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0131par0058	Thank you, Mr. President, and I salute you and the Grand General Assembly. Mr. President, I made a sincere and stately call to our President yesterday. Now, today, Mr. President, there is no point in being a state within the state as a basis for the unconditional, non-profit attitude of our citizens to our municipalities, and let no one get involved in all this work." He sent a message. Mr. President, you'll have to shut down the municipalities. Mr. President, one must remind the Constitution of Article 127, and Laws 5216 and 5393, which are in effect based on this clause. The government's helping. The municipalities are not campaigning; municipalities are trying to grow up on their own budget to help our hungry open citizens, who are now forced to stay at home with their own means, just like the state; one is general administration, central management, one is local government. Mr. President says, "Wait a minute, don't get involved." And he doesn't say, "Don't accept donations." Mr. President, I don't know who's giving you the wrong information, they're deceiving you. Our municipalities have opened a campaign according to Law 2860 and are not walking from here. If that were to happen, our mayors would know that the governorships would have to be allowed to do so, and he would have a way of doing so. Our municipalities accept unconditional donations under the power vested in them by Laws 5216 and 5393, and deliver it as services to hungry open people staying in their homes, carrying out a bridge mission. Now, the President says: I help as a state, but I'm not enough, my safe is empty. People, gather money and bring it. The mayors don't say it, they already help, they say they'll accept unconditional donations. You're telling the city you can't donate without asking. We're always saying, Mr. President, that we call you one man, that I understand from here, that if you can't manage yourself, you reject the local authorities and the administration, you don't tolerate it. There are these practices in the municipalities and similar municipalities; they are free to go to CHP municipalities and invest money in them; and what do you say in its name and also: there is no state within the state? Mr. President, Turkey has seen the state within the state, has seen the EC POTI period. From the cosmic rooms of the state, from the judiciary, from the army, from the safety, from the health, to the education of the state, there is only one example that has allowed the state into your time. (CHP and GOOD PARTY) Don't be afraid, from now on, even if you want, we won't let any terrorist organizations infiltrate the state. Mr. President, I told you yesterday, and I'm telling you again, a fire can't be put out with a bucket. A house is on fire, and people have taken a bucket, and you say, "Leave those buckets, and I will put this fire out with my bucket. You can't put it out. I apologize to my people again tomorrow, God forgive me, my people forgive me. We don't want you to say. Get rid of this ego; don't stop the municipalities from volunteering, unconditional donations of citizens. Despite you, our municipalities will catch up with everyone in the area they're in charge of. Don't be a fool, we don't want any more favors, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0132par0064	The film of Sener Şen would have to be sampled.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0133par0065	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0134par0066	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0133par0067	I'd like a moment of your time, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0134par0068	I'll give you my word for a minute according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0133par0072	Mr. President, I'd like to make a contribution to Mr. Engin's speech -- let's just say he's feeling it -- look, there's a technical debate here. Help is one thing, charity is another. Among the relevant municipalities are those from the EC PARTY, and they are subject to the same law. I'm going to pass, there's a lot of other things that have been accountable, crime committed, $150 box is actually $90, but that day, not today. I say, since we're going to be together today, come, let's all support this campaign. This campaign -- the president's campaign -- is not the campaign of the EC PARTY, it's the campaign of our government, it's the campaign of all our institutions. Come on, let's all support this campaign, let's all shoulder our poor people, our needs together in the painting. There's no point in fighting today, bringing up a different kind of legislation today. I hereby propose, again, that we make our campaign together and shoulder the solution to all problems together, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0135par0074	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0136par0075	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0135par0077	Mr. President, by inviting the heads of the five political parties in parliament, or by inviting the heads of the group in parliament, or by co-operating with them, let's face it together. As I have said, there is no intention and desire, and if there is fire, I will extinguish it alone. We're concerned that the girl has a handle on money laundering, tax evasion. Anyone who asks will, of course, help our President's campaign, but the institutions, the Supreme Court, the county administrations, put the money here at least this much, and bring me the receipt. This is not a campaign, let me underline it.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0137par0079	It's extortion, extortion.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0135par0080	It's extortion, sorry, extortion. Second, direct assistance to municipalities may be more acceptable because it will be assessed in a neighbouring solidarity that will be used in its place.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0138par0083	Let's turn on the mike.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0135par0084	We, unfortunately, have to consider that in a place where the Dianet Jobs have a fetal fund, the president has to cut off voluntary donations to our municipalities by citizens, to carry out this crisis with political ulterior motives, and to be politically deployed from this crisis with desire and motive. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0139par0086	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0140par0087	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0139par0089	Mr. President, Mr. Group, I'm not going to enter again because we've discussed the Vice President's claim to martyrs and veterans many times. As far as that goes, our Minister of the Family has already given a very detailed answer. Other than that, this aid is not a foundation, as alleged, but a special campaign that our president has led, which is supported by all the institutions of the state. In the event of this campaign, we have always shared that through the Social Aid Foundation, it will be distributed by our most needy, neighborhood, street-knowing people, our chief, our governor, and our governor. The next time I say, "This is not the time for me to fight, this is not the time for polemics; let's all come and support this campaign, through the foundation of the state, and support our citizens with no means.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0140par0091	Thank you. The first word on his behalf is Mr. Hussain won't run away. Mr. No-Run, come in.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0141par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear MPs, I've actually stated from this bench before, and I'd like to repeat. Nature told us what the real beka problems were, and it's actually giving us a message. Chemical pollution, climate crisis, epidemics are actually telling us what the real problem is. But even at this time, when all humanity is threatened, even in this period of common wisdom, solidarity and cooperation, the government unfortunately insists on separatist policies and separatist policies. Dear friends, have you noticed? For the first time, people don't speak of parties in a case, they don't speak of Turkish-Kurdish-Arab-Ermen, they don't speak of Alevi-Sunni, they don't speak of Muslim-Jew-Christian because nature doesn't look at your religion, your color, your race. In fact, nature is saying something clear here, it says that for me, you humans are any of the 1.8 million species of life. In fact, nature is giving us a clear message. Dear friends, in our geography, we've experienced a lot of suffering and suffering over constant wars, sufferings, sects, divisions through etnisity, and they're still going on. But in this period, friends, nature also offers us an opportunity to come up with a common mind, and the common future, to actually join us in terms of what the common beka problems are. Today, if we still insist on daily policies, if we still appoint trustees to HDP-based municipalities, as the government has done, if other opposition municipalities are trying to build a network of aid and solidarity, forgive me, everyone will pay the penalty very severely, I'd like to make it clear. Dear friends, we are critical of the power's attitude towards the virus. Many countries have given support and confidence to their people. Unfortunately, our people have left with counsel, advertising and campaigns, and the IBAN has fallen into our share. Seriously, guys, people are watching us on their TV right now. He's tired of shouting and slogans, and he wants us to come up with a common mind. Today, even against this virus, if we can't produce the common mind, if we don't fight against its power, its opposition, a common mind that is involved in its institutions and organizations, we will not have fulfilled our responsibility to our own people and to history. So, in this period of time, friends, really, this crisis is also giving us an opportunity. In this period, we can establish peace; in this period, we can put aside the policy that we are constantly arguing about, which is being used by people's budgets, and produced by shouting and slogans, and actually create a mechanism for the common future, which gives us this opportunity. Let's create this opportunity together. First of all, of course, it's falling to power, but so far, unfortunately, we haven't seen any positive steps to establish this co-operation, the mind of solidarity. But we'll keep asking for it. Even in this period, when there is a plague of viruses, we see that there is discrimination in the package in the execution law brought by power. Guys, this is unacceptable. Tens of thousands of our alleged political criminals are in political prison; they have neither killed nor sold drugs, nor have they committed any fixed crimes. Because of what many of our friends think they share, it's today under the Anti-terrorism Act -- in truth -- it's as if they're terrorists; that's wrong, that doesn't get us anything, and that keeps us spending our energy on the same things over and over again. As I was saying, friends, come, let's turn this coronavirus crisis into an opportunity, but, of course, we can use it as a common mind in this country, not as God's grace. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, a very brief greeting...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0142par0108	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0141par0109	Friends, as I finish my speech, first of all, what we really need right now is solidarity, cooperation, and love; hope is the hope that will really move us forward. In this period, as I said, if you still block trustees to HDP municipalities, co-opting other opposition municipalities -- excuse me -- the 25-year-old aid and solidarity that comes from that national line of opinion, which is the means to reach the poor, the public will only ask you about it if you make it lawful for yourselves. I salute you all. May we meet again on healthier days. My respects.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0143par0113	The second word on his behalf is Mr. Suat Özcan. Mr. Ozcan, please.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0144par0115	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. We're dealing with a pandemic of coronavirus that has affected our country and the entire world. The day goes by when we and many countries will find that the deaths and cases have not been detected due to the epidemic. Thus, in the coming years, inter-country trade, strategy, health and friendship relations will be re-examined, shaped, and no one should have any doubts about it. As in many countries around the world, we don't seem to be taking it seriously because we don't think it's going to turn into a virus epidemic. We've watched the world, we've always talked about closing schools, sports events, artistic events, academic, social gatherings, umre visits, the decision that Friday prayers should be performed at home as the noon prayer. In fact, even when the refugees were sent to the border gate collectively, even after the death of 34 Mehmetçik. After the significance and seriousness of the incident is understood, measures in many countries around the world have been implemented by the minds of science, common minds and state, while we face segregating, other words and practices. Let us not forget that in the early years when our republic was founded, it was founded to protect public health, and rabies, flowers, cholera, tetanus vaccines were sent to many countries around the world. However, we say that the Hafzzisshiha, which spread cures to our country and the world, was closed in 2011, a very important institution for study of epidemics was destroyed, science and reason were abandoned; it could be used to explain virus epidemic measures to all students, isolation, and awareness of the families of nearly 20 million students until the school's holiday decision. Remote education is provided through technological tools, such as the Internet tablet and computer, especially television. Today, however, three million, 621,772, of 18 million 108,860 students, do not have internet access. In the training exercise launched through the Finnish Information Network (EBA), during the course, our children were shown the execution animation of Adnan Menderes, and the head-cut violent images. Is that the role of the Ministry of National Education during a time when life is on the line, or is it about taking measures from the kindergarten that will satisfy the victims of elementary school, secondary school, high school, and university students? Helping in disaster times is one of the main methods in the world, not just us. Of course, it is necessary to keep the feeling of social solidarity strong. But the days we live in are days where the state should show that the state is the state, that the institutions are standing. Help each other, help the government... You can't raise help, you're saying I'm going to raise it. Aren't the citizens of our country the citizens that the municipalities will share their help with? The economy, which is already worsening due to the outbreak of the corona virus, will force municipal revenues in the process. What do you say when our citizens are unable to pay their taxes, when municipalities need to be paid out of power, government budgets, and debt delays? You can't raise help. As a result, the appropriate television, support for children without Internet connections, and the education of our special children who require special education will also be compensated for, and family benefits will be applied to poor families while working in restaurants, coffeehouses, barbers, etc. Although the second half of the 2019-2020 education year was tried to continue with remote education, many uncertainty remains. In this context, what is the degree of students based on? Is losing a year going to happen this semester? Will students and teachers be able to take a safe look at the end of the year? Let paid teachers pay for the corona virus vacation. May the Red Moon be with our people in the battle of the coronavirus. As of today, I pray for mercy to our citizens who died of the coronavirus in Mugla. In the fight against the Coronavirus epidemic, I support the work of the Mugla Metropolitan Municipality and its municipalities, and I wish you success. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0145par0124	I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. I'm having them read the third article. Article 3- (1) The President shall carry out these laws. On behalf of the group, the first word on the matter is Mr. Hussein Orris. Mr. Anres, please.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0146par0130	Mr. President, I salute all of you with the greatest respect. Dear lawmakers, since the first day we encountered the incident with the corona, I would like to present today a service delivered to me by our citizens from both my electoral district and all four sides of Turkey. For us Tripolians, they say: "The Trabsonians are friendly, they are friendly, but they are quick." Yes, they are, and I am a little quick. So I'd like to make an introduction to what I was going to say at the very end of my speech, and I'm asking you, friends, where is our Redhead? Where's our redhead fighting the corona that we know is supposed to be with us in our hard times?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0147par0132	He went to Africa.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0148par0133	The house is closed.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0146par0134	Many of our citizens ask us that question. And I ask the question that our citizens ask us from this seat of the High Assembly, and I say, "When will Rediay take the initiative at this time?" Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm going to give you a simple chronological reminder in the process of dealing with this corona plague. On January 31st, the Anadolu Agency reported that the owner of a private business security firm, Turkey, has run out of mask stocks, and manufacturers are now giving time for deliveries in eight weeks, including the production of three shifts on Sunday. The Health Department said there was no sign of a virus. God forbid, if it spreads to our country, we don't have a stockpile of masks right now. That's why we could be in serious trouble. The black market begins, and our citizens may be victims, he says. Who's he talking to? He's talking to a reporter at the Anadolu Agency. When does he talk? January 31st. The archives of the Anadolu Agency are there, we can check them out. Now, I'm going to give you a 2nd date on March 17th. Again, the Anadolu Agency reports: the vocational high schools are preparing to fill an important gap in the lack of masking in the market. After the production of disinfectant as part of the Coronavirus measures, professional high schools will also begin to produce masks. In his statement on the issue, the Deputy Minister of National Education said they co-ordinated the process with the departments of municipal education. Now, here's 19 Marta. On March 19th, the Turkish Deputy Director General of Kızılay shares 30 thousand mask aid for Erbil (a.k. a.k. a.k. a.k.a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. Let's walk a little further, March 22nd... as Mr. Süleyman Soylu, the Minister of Interior, answers his questions on the Instagram live broadcast of the Postal Journal writer Candash Tolga Iztagram... We've given these firms enough time. If they don't release their stockpile in ten to twelve hours, we'll start processing. We'll seize the factories if we have to. We have the authority to do so. Now, you see, my friends, in the 19th of Kızılay Mart, we have distributed 30,000 masks in Erbil. The National Ministry of Education is taking additional measures to sew masks, and on March 22nd, our Minister of Interior, Mr. Süleyman Soylu, says we will seize the factories of those who have taken steps to address the mask shortage. Now, I'd like to ask you here: when we're dealing with this plague in the country, in a process where we're dealing with the problems of the mask -- a simple chronology that I just said -- we've sent 30,000 masks to Erbil. Dear MPs, since the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, and even since the Ottoman period of 93 Wars, where is Kızıyay now, who is ready and ready for flight and war, disaster and holiday, plagues and natural disasters, and even sort of a watcher?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0149par0140	It's everywhere, in every square.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0150par0141	He's locked up, he's home! Stay in the house. It fits.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0151par0142	Africa, Africa!
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0152par0143	The Turkish Redee is an army of volunteers standing by the government without any funds for employees, with donations made by its own resources and by the people from its origins to the day it was founded.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0153par0144	Look at the squares of every county.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0152par0145	This army of volunteers has done a great job. In fact, the reputation of the Red's contribution and work in international institutions not only received applause, but was modeled in other countries as an example. The greatest achievements of the girl are her self - sacrificing work at 93 Wars, the Battle of Çanakkale and the Battle of Salvation. They did everything they could to avoid any shortages in the army, especially in the myth written by thousands of writers, doctors, and businessmen, including Halide Edip Adıvar. The Red moon is a warm soup, a warm home, a warm hand, a home for the homeless, a tent for the victim, a home for the victim, a tent for the victim, a home for the victim, a warm home, a warm hand for the victim. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] In any disaster, large or small, Kızılay is in that province and in that district. The volunteers who found the hundreds of thousands are with their army, in every neighborhood and every street. And that's why we've never heard the sound of this Kızılay. But where is this state? We know many of the events called "Where is this state?" Dear lawmakers, loyalty groups have been formed in our country over today's pandemic of coronavirus. The formation of these groups, of course, is a very good practice in cooperation and solidarity, but earlier, the Kızılay volunteers were already doing it. Why were such loyalty groups needed? Because nearly 600 branches of the Red have been shut down and the district has been weakened. It's called a new configuration as a cover. ▪ Under the name of the new organization, it might be possible to understand that if the rulers who run these activities were ex-Reday volunteers. But the only people who don't even know how to pitch tents in their life are the ones who hand out rations during holidays and Ramadan months: Have you prepared any Natural Disaster Strategys? Do you have any practical training or theoretical training on this subject? So, what was the point of shutting down about 600 branches and upsetting hundreds of thousands of Redbeard members and thousands of more volunteers, and what was the shame of these people? Yes, today, the Loyalty Group goes to our people and tries to meet their needs, but only those who suffer the embarrassment of saying that I have no money to an officer who lives at home with the help of their neighbors and who has no one. No one has the right to lead such an historic and radical organization, such as a company, such as a small group of friends, or a group of friends, who run to help Alexander of Hayrat to help him with all kinds of disasters and disasters, and who proudly carry and identify our flag all over the world. [[BEHIND THE GOOD PARTY and CHP]] The cure for each problem is the entire Turkish Red Sea, which is ready and under control everywhere, and the establishment of the Kızılay Real Estate Investment Partnership, which is an economic and profitable change, and the managers are given honey wages, and a subcontractor was returned to a subcontractor, who has been able to avoid paying taxes with similar applications.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0154par0153	Exactly.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0152par0154	To sum up the point that Redbeard has come today in the words of a citizen, I wish we could see the masks with the red flag everywhere. If any of you know the whereabouts of Rediay, who had not even read the code of the Red Sea, which had come to their mind only with earthquakes and floods. In the Elazığ earthquake, when the warm human bodies are crushed between the concrete blocks, raise money to the public and send SMSs to a president who says, "Will Kızılay be the manager and the chiefs who have been replaced in the past days?" [[BEHIND THE GOOD PARTY and CHP]] A package of economic stability has been announced, as you know, during the anti-corona struggle process, and the support explained in this package is insufficient in many sectors. The incentives and assistance in economic packages announced as part of the corana struggle in the European Union hold a proportion of more than 10 per cent of the national income, while our package has a national income rate of only 2 per cent. On March 30th, Mr. President called for a donation to his account numbers. This kind of fundraising campaign, of course, is done during difficult times, but in times of crisis, it's also very, very important that the state makes itself strong. In fact, the President himself is campaigning for the Turkish Red. Rediay, unfortunately, has lost a great deal of credibility with the citizens because he has transferred the money collected under the name of subsidiary donations to other foundations and associations. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm so sorry, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0155par0159	Complete your words, Mr. Anres.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0152par0160	At this point, the question arises: Is it because of the thought that the amount of donation collected by such a campaign through the Kızılay would be far below the desired level that Redaya was not assigned to this fundraiser? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the negatives of the field hospitals, which are now established in the soup, in the mask, and in the borders of our Ministry of Health, are unfortunately on the shoulders of today's executives of the Red Ones. Turkey says it must be remade with the Kızılay branch networks, it must mobilise members and volunteers again under the Kızılay roof, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0156par0163	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0157par0164	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0156par0167	Mr. President, I'd like to contain a matter. In the process, the Red Moon and other institutions took great initiatives. It's in social media accounts, they're sharing. I know I'm following Çanakkale. There are people working as hard as they can. I don't think it would be very elegant to say things that upset their motivation. Therefore, for a hundred and fifty-two years, the Red Moon has been almost there again today, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0158par0169	The Red Moon is asleep, asleep! Stay in the house. It's a good fit.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0159par0170	Mr. Oztunç...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0158par0171	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0159par0172	For your information, you're sitting in the position of our group president.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0158par0173	I know, it's okay, he's a congressman, and we're MPs.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0159par0177	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Mehmet Rüşt Tiryaki.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0160par0179	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. Yesterday, lawmakers from the Justice and Development Party -- let's say with their partners -- submitted a proposal for a number of amendments to the Execution Act in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. The Justice Commission will meet on Friday, and we expect the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to come on the agenda next week. It's going to be on the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, of course, we've all said a lot in a few days, there's a lot to be said about it, but it's important to hear what people inside feel, and we may not all be able to express it from the heart, but I'm going to read to you the letter of a prisoner who's been in prison for 27 years. It's not a letter containing such embittery, it's not a personal request, it's not despair. On the contrary, it's a promising letter for our country and for humanity. We've received a lot of sensitive letters, letters to many of our MPs. I assure you, there was no insult to the Justice and Development Party, nor to the House, nor to the swearing. On the contrary, there was a fair solution, a demand for equality in execution in all of these letters. I'm sure you've received such messages, letters. The letter begins as follows: to friends... hey, you in there. I salute you with love and respect, and I wish you all to be good and healthy. I embrace it with longing, and I kiss it. Don't be afraid, I can kiss you freely, with free verbal embrace. Since you're careful and I think you're taking the matter seriously, I don't want to bore you with warnings -- seven days and 24 hours on television is not enough. I can only say that the most serious thing to do on the day of the corona is to laugh at whatever you say. Don't forget to laugh and laugh. The other day, I watched a video on TV, and I was... I was... I was upset, and it was Kurdish for me to laugh, and I was sitting at a job talking to four guys, and they were all running away, including someone who sneezed and sneezed, like they were caught in an earthquake. There was one person who was putting his coat on his head as soon as he heard the sound of a sneeze. What can you do besides laugh and laugh? And while you may remember that the world is a mortal world, you may wish for long reductions from your list. Start with love; work, career, school, and the rush to make money. Do what's left in you with love that you've forgotten. Play games with children in your homes, help them study and learn Kurdish. Talk to the residents -- who do you have -- your spouse, your children, your parents, your brothers and sisters. Speak not only of the weather, nor of the corona; but by touching and listening to each other's hearts. On the condition that it's on the Internet and on the phone, contact your loved ones, your friends. Read it and watch good movies. Oh, and if you want to write, I'm here. I don't think you'd be posting a piece of paper when you're standing in an ambush on the street, but let's just say, if anyone writes it, don't forget to send it with a commitment. According to the professors I watch on TV, when I get your letters, I can disinfect them with boiling water. I'm not kidding, a professor said to wash your hands with boiling water. I can wash it with bleach, put a latch on the clothesline in the vent, air it out for three or four days, or I can wash my hands with soap for 20 seconds after reading your letter. What do you say? Which one should I do? "D" makes sense to me. On the other hand, for the first time in your lives, you're living a life of prison that might be a little bit empathic with the rest of us in there. The prison that keeps you from your freedom is something we don't desire for anyone. We hope that the millions that are temporarily out there, but essentially in there, will understand us, who are in there permanently. What do you think, they'll understand? Is Corona smart? I'll tell you this, though you and I are inside, our conditions are still not equal. There have been times when we've lived in prison, but it's the first time we've met like this. Indoor activities, such as sports, chats, and closed visits have been cancelled for a understandable reason. Our only connection to the outside world is 20 minutes a week with telephones and letters. He understands the measures that need to be taken, but the most disadvantaged part of society is not being shown to the dungeons. Those inside are the weakest people in the immune system. We're already people who haven't eaten healthy for years, who have been under a lot of stress, who have struggled with chronic diseases, who haven't been treated enough. Bottom line, we're easy prey for corona. I assure you, not a single case spreads fast and ends up with mass death. No county hospital can deal with hundreds of patients from prisons, infrastructure, human resources. What's going to happen? In prisons, behind closed doors, we are left to die without saying goodbye to our families, our loved ones. While that's reality, there's talk of evictions these days with a reduced execution, saying they'll keep us politicians out of the picture. We're the first prey out of sight. This is not only a grudge and hatred that is counted for the right to live, but an approach that will make the country's decades of social peace and domestic politics conflicted. The message to hundreds of thousands of people, if they're whipped with hundreds of hundreds of hundreds of thousands of people, is that I don't care about national and international law and ethics, I pursue feuds, social peace doesn't interest me. Is the corona a blessing this way? What, he's going to get rid of the stone in their hearts and not hang them and feed them? The trauma and consequences of the violence of September 12, 1980 took 40 years of a country, its most valuable sons, its social resources. With mass death, the trauma of September 12th will face the consequences. Can't you see this? Has hatred and hatred blinded them that much? On the Corona safari, being offered to the hunter on a golden platter as caged prey will cost the country the entire country. Corona reminded the world and humanity that we are in a mortal world. Perhaps it will lead to the creation of a new world, where no one can reach the new world with yesterday's luggage. Only countries, local and national, who have solved all their issues, established inner peace, established democratic, free, equal and participating politics, heard nature's scream, stopped harming nature, and states can find a place in the new world. For eyes that want to see and ears that want to hear, the corona reveals a very simple truth. Statistically, 10 times the number of people who have lost their lives, even though 100 times the number of people who have been infected, they can be cured. It is the fact that tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people from a short period of time were infected and their health infrastructure was not enough. It shows that it's capitalism that kills, not corona, but killing, that capitalism and nation states, in fact, transfer their resources to health, science, education, man, and nature, to the enrichment of a population of war, occupations, the plundering of nature, the release of gas that increases global warming to communities. There must be some irony in history, when a nuclear war is thought to bring about the end of the world, a microscopic virus has stunned the world's super-hegemon from the U.S.A., all nations who boast about racist rituals like rabbits. Now it's time to ask questions about our homes that we've been sitting in, closed down. I know from twenty-seven years of experience that prison is where questions are asked the most. We wish for weeks, maybe months of your experience of this contented life, too. It'll be a lot of questions. For example, questions may be asked: Can the bombs thrown into Hiroshima, Nagasaki, and Aleppo, be destroyed by hundreds of nuclear weapons in the warehouses? Can it be destroyed with inflation and tenkille? Can giant warships fight the virus with F-35s, F-16s, or millions of armies? Could the S-400 have been shielded by the Patriots? Can the SIHAs, the drones, neutralize them? Can giant skyscrapers, floating palm cities, plazas, concrete cities, millions of cars protect a handful of gold mankind from the virus, causing the destruction of hundreds of hectares of forests, the contamination of water with cyanide? Will the prayer of conquests and the salaments work, as was once done, in hundreds of mosques in 80 provinces? And the most dirty object that has become a means of spreading the virus, can money save us? The irony of fate is that not all of us, with corona, are hanging from their own legs anymore, but in our world returning to a global village, one of us has the virus of all of us. Salvation is possible together. So now is not the time to sit at home in a lazy and hopeless state, but the time to ask questions and think. It is said that there are 5,000 viruses in the equator belt that have not yet been identified, and that global warming is moving even more.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0161par0193	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0160par0194	I'm ending it, Mr. President. Tomorrow, when faced with a more powerful, more stubborn virus that has mutated, if the questions that need to be asked are not asked and not met on the right answers, then humanity will look for the day of the corona. Are we going to run to our apocalypse with four horsemen to the Apocalypse, or are we going to learn our lesson and seek a new world? That's what humanity will decide at this time of break that closes to their homes. I'm not hopeful with governments who think and act with yesterday's luggage, but I'm hopeful with humanity. After the dark corona days, I hope there will be life, hope, love, and peace at the dawn of mankind, as long as we heed the question of the coronah as the horse fly of Socrates. It seems that we will not be released at the expense of social peace, whether it be fifteen, or twenty years in the sentence of one person, whether it be for those of us in their age, 70, 80, or any of us in their prime, who have spent three years and five years in prison, or the chronic fatal one, or the woman with children, even at the cost of social peace. Maybe if you people out there, the people in there, the democratic parties and organizations, the intellectuals and leaders of society, were to be pressured on decision-makers. We don't want our existence and our death to lead to new fights, to suffering, that's our only concern. Take good care of yourself. [[The microphone was turned off by the automatic device.]] With greetings and respect, I salute all of you.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0162par0199	Mr. President, I want a promise.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0163par0200	Are you going to object to Mr. Tirak's speech?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0162par0201	No, no, no, I won't.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0163par0202	Mr. Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0162par0205	Thank you, Mr. President. I got a complaint from a few citizens, to be honest. You know, about these bank loans, a package was announced last week, and the loans were legally postponed and structured without interest, but I have two credit samples from the People's Bank.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0163par0207	Without a pro bono delay, you say?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0162par0208	Configuration. Yeah, well, that's what's been declared a procrastination without interest. The consumer loan has now risen from 97,970 TL to 100,302 TL. In another example, it rose from 83,974 to 85,974. Now, this is obviously an illegal way of taking interest, and it's not possible to accept this kind of damage to the public during this time of the epidemic.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0163par0209	Do you know about the banks? What banks?
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0162par0210	Halkbank, I'm saying it directly. This involves deceiving the public, and in the end, it is inadmissible to take this kind of abuse and interest from the legislature, which is legalized, declared, expressed by the President himself, and we all bear witness here. Of course, I would also like to remind the public that the other issue is the speech of Mr. Varank, which I think is the way these banks are approaching: the epidemic, the coronavirus, will come to Turkey before it reaches Turkey. On February 16th, the virus that hit the world, it's the virus that's working for Turkey. This virus, like the whole world, is hitting us, and it's threatening our people. Finally, the Science Council, you know, they have regular meetings, and the public is very curious because everyone is concerned about their lives and the lives of their loved ones, but the Science Board doesn't explain anything. We'd like to make a call to the Science Council from here: What are your proposals to conduct these meetings to the ruling party of the epidemic? How much of these suggestions are accepted? If these are not explained and there is a missing application, the plague, I regret to inform you, will also belong to the Science Council. Thank you, Mayor.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0164par0215	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0165par0216	If the application is wrong, we warn our friends.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0164par0217	Yeah, yeah. The request for a statement on behalf of individuals on the matter is for Mr. Serkan Topal. Mr. Clumsy, here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Don't make fun of me, Mr. Clumsy, please.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0166par0225	Thank you. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I give you my regards and regards to all my citizens who watch us on the screens. Dear friends, in five minutes now, I'm not going to talk about the failures of the AK PARTY's power in 18 years. I simply want to say, dear friends: Now, we all say, "Stay in the house." Yes, what are we really doing to keep our citizens at home? There's nothing we can do, dear friends. Look, my fellow Hatayli made an irony by saying that if we didn't die of the virus, Malik Yilmaz, the truck driver, we'd starve to death. So now, somehow, they're taking this citizen to the police station, and now they're releasing him for probation. Dear friends, now you tell this man that you don't work, you stay home. But really, this man will starve to death, not from the virus. I'm telling you, our citizens are really going to starve to death, not by the virus. Now that our citizens are out of work, the merchants have closed down, many of our citizens are victims, so what do we do? Now, he's started collecting donations, Mr. President; good, good. What's a social government? The social state comes into play at the point of solving citizens' problems. Social government doesn't beg, social government doesn't raise, it donates. Dear friends, when a man is born, he is taxed, taxed when a man opens his job; in all matters, he is taxed by the social state of the flying bird. Thanks, he's supposed to get it, but now we're looking at the earthquake, the donation's coming together, the coup, the fundraiser's going around, the fundraiser's going around, so... so now, friends, the citizen's got something left to donate? Where would the citizen donate? The virus, the plague, the flood, the earthquake, the coup? So there's only one thing left for the citizen to donate, and you know what? That's her life. And I'll tell you this: yes, we have a life, and if we're going to give our lives for this country, we're going to die for it, and I want to express it here, but as our citizens say by our truck driver, our citizens are literally going to starve, not from the virus, and I want to express it on this stand. So, in the case of the social government, let's solve the problem of our victims. I've said it on this stand many times, and I'm going to say it one more time. In fact, yesterday, Mr. Ali Öztunç, our Alderman of Kahramanmarash, voiced: Many of our citizens abroad are victims. Look, especially in the Middle East, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar, Libya, Algeria, our fellow workers are seriously victims. Look, there's eight people in a room, 10 people in a room. I just want to read a few messages that were sent to me before I gave them their names: Look, 10 people are in Riyad. There is no money, no food, leave the house on April 1st. At the embassy -- on the virus -- are we to wait for our own destiny? Look, do I have to kill myself or throw the children away so the government can see and hear, says the citizen. The consulate is not responding. Should I kill myself and commit suicide? Another message. My wife is pregnant, and at the dorm right now, please, help her. She says, "Please, help me." And thousands of messages, thousands of them. Dear friends, I've said this many times, and unfortunately the AK PARTY Group has remained insensitive, including the Deputy Presidents, and the power has remained insensitive. Mr. Speaker, you are the Deputy Speaker of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I once again demand that you be sensitive about this: look, we have citizens out there in Saudi Arabia, in Kuwait, in Qatar, in Qatar. Let's send a plane, or we can solve these problems of our citizens there. Look, they're working there. So they're in there, they can't make money, they can't send money to our citizens here, they can't send money to their families here; they're hungry, they're hungry. Dear friends, we need to find a solution. I mean, for God's sake, for Muhammad's sake, Ali, I'm asking you, please. My phone is really ringing off the hook right now, thousands of messages coming in, dear friends. And finally, I want to say that I want to express what the government has to do here one more time. Traders, farmers, mortgagers, small-time citizens, employees abroad... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I think you'll give me two minutes since I'm the last speaker.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0167par0235	Finish your words. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0166par0237	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0167par0238	Not the last conversation, but three more after you.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0166par0239	I repeat once again: let's move them out for a year, push them over, push them over, push them over. Look, very quickly, because of being a social state... you know, we've helped Italy, Spain. Friends, don't do that help there; come, let's send the veteran to the district of Samandağ of Hatay, Defne, Reyhanlı. People are really victims there. The people of Hatay were number one in all kinds of disasters, but unfortunately we can't even see the Redbear, the government, just leave it there right now. Please, I beg you, let's solve the problems of both our citizens abroad and our citizens from Hatay, and I present you. My respects, thank you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I suppose you'd say something about that, Mr. President, about overseas, they're really victims.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0168par0244	These demands of yours will be transferred. Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0169par0248	Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, Mr. Secretary, have accused us of being insensitive to the Deputy Directors of the Group, and, frankly, you're upset about that. How is it possible to be insensitive in a situation like this? I'm not gonna name names, but...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0168par0249	Mr. Altay has already asked for a word, and he's taken, yes.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0169par0250	In the process, I followed every request of our fellow lawmakers in their own group -- but I'm sure that's what my other friends did -- one by one. We've even had an e-mail right now with a substitute friend of ours, CHP group. Now, here, of course, the operation on our people living abroad is a very large operation. In fact, Turkish Airlines, I know that, you know, there was only one Turkish Airlines that could fly for 15 or 20 days, especially when the flights were completely cut off between Europe and America. Turkey was the most important country that other citizens of the country who followed the 14-day rule, not just Turkish citizens, and in that sense, it was the most important country that they applied to. About those trapped in Kuwait, there are three planes... that are about to be shut down: there are other procedures, sometimes because the flights are closed, and sometimes because of their own internal procedure, there are countries that shut down their own flight lines. In that sense, this is about our citizens, and three new planes will go and pick them up. I want to underline that. I think it's important to help each other through this process, at least to be aware that we agree on the same point in feeling. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0170par0253	I thank you. Of course, there are similar situations in many countries. It's the same thing in England, like, for example, where we got the students, but it doesn't look like our other citizens didn't show up. I mean, there are similar problems in different countries, but Turkey has been very successful in this, and I have to hand it to you.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0171par0255	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0170par0256	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0171par0258	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you and the Grand General Assembly, sir. In the sense of constructive opposition, it is his natural duty to reveal the shortcomings, negligence, and inadequacies that our fellow minister means. Mr. President, on this occasion, I'd like to make a brief statement. While the fighting with Corona continues, so does life. Just north of the 40sli Kaynarca district, after the meadow watering dam was completed by State Waterworks, we received a report that the dam watering site had been transferred to the Pınarhisar municipality of AK PARTI at 25,000 acres in Kaynarca. On the one hand, Mr. President says "unification," he says, saying, "compassion," but on the other hand, if it were just to give the dam and the irrigation plugins to the Pınarhisar municipality as Kaynarca City's People's Party, and to predict the operation of that Pınarhisar City by a co-op, there would be a lack of insight. I don't know if the Minister has a date or not, but I know the article goes to the Ankara DSI General Directorate. I also submit the petitions to Mr. Özlem Rich. I demand justice and justice in this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0172par0266	Talks on matter are complete. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't... Those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, the full vote of the proposal is subject to an open vote. In the second statement of Article 145 of the Civil Code, "In case the president sees the need, the open vote can be left to the end of the session or to a specific day of the week." It's called. Under this provision, the entire proposal was given an open vote Thursday (April 2nd 2020). An open vote will be held on the agenda's part of the motion. In addition, all proposals to be finalised and voted on today will be put to Thursday (April 2nd 2020). It's for your information. We will begin talks with Turkey's Grand National Assembly Minister Izmir Bali Yıldırım, in the 3rd place, offering the Dair Law and Foreign Commission Report, where the approval of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and between Mongolia is appropriate. Commission? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed by 107 rows. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Hakkı Saruhan Oluç. Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0173par0277	Mr. President, Congressmans, we will continue to discuss this matter. I hope this won't take too long, but we'll continue to discuss the coronavirus outbreak. So, for the first time, I want to stress once again that it is important for the ruling parties to listen seriously to criticism and proposals. There's no response to the whole know-it-all attitude, which means there's nothing in Turkey, and there's nothing in the world. Therefore, especially for the sake of power, not taking into account the criticism and suggestions of social and political opposition on this issue reveals a very serious error. Look, I'm talking about social and political opposition. And by that, I mean both NGOs, trade unions, trade organisations, political parties, local associations -- all the institutions and organizations in which citizens are organized. Now, when we look at their demands, they actually add up in a few things, and I want to make a brief point about them. One: They say that working during the epidemic must be immediately halted, except for the basic, mandatory, and urgent work of producing goods and services. • This is very important, this is really needed. Two: They say layoffs during the outbreak should be banned, small tradesmen should be supported, employees should be allowed to work for wages, and unemployed people should be paid unconditionally. Three: They say that mortgages and mortgages and credit card loans and electricity, water, natural gas and communication bills must be postponed without interest during the risk of epidemics. Four: They say that private health services should be taken into public control during this period; that citizens should have access to health care without exception and without preconditions, completely without money. Five: They say that a strict discipline in co-ordination in combating the plague should be implemented, open and transparent in scientific approach and sharing information. A scientific, widespread, rightful, and fast-explained process must be established regarding the Covid-19 tests that have become the criteria for trust. Six: They say that all necessary tasks, including physicians, health care and municipal employees, should be removed from all necessary tasks, all deficiencies, including protective equipment, should be given confidence that there will be no setbacks, and everyone who works in these tasks must be tested regularly. Seven: They say that actual and legal provisions, considered to be disadvantaged during the time of the outbreak, must be carried out for the poor, immigrants, and prisoners, who have no income or savings, and who are imprisoned, to protect their lives and health. These are the demands of NGOs, trade unions, trade organisations, Turkish Revolutionary and Labour Unions Confederacy, the Union of Public Workers' Unions (KESK), the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures (TMMOB), the Union of Turkish Medicines (TTTB), and many civil society organizations, the association of professions, the foundation, the political party. It is vital that the government take these demands seriously. Why? Because the problem is that it's not just your problem; it's not just your problem; it's the government's job that we've been stressing it, and we've been stressing it for several times -- it's to use public resources to comfort the citizen with economic and social care, so stay in the house. All of the citizens that we call home need to be met so that people feel that there is no situation for them to lose trust, and that they should feel that there is no security for themselves, and that they should think that they need to be satisfied while they're staying at home. That's why this is a serious matter. That's what all countries' governments do, and that's basically what Turkey needs to do. When we don't do this, when that doesn't happen, this transparency is really very difficult to achieve in fighting this virus when it's not guaranteed. There's no source. If he says there's power, look, there's resources. There's a source, and you know it, and we know it; it's important to know what choices this source is being used for. Basically, where's the source? Look, in the 2020 budget, you'll see these resources. Choices are important. Look at the arms and security expenses. The source is there. Look at the covered funds. The money is there. Look at the palace expenses, the waste, the luxury; the source is there. Look at the unemployment fund. The source is there. As a matter of fact, the unemployment fund has been served either as capital or banks for years, as services to various difficult business environments, where the source is available. The unemployment fund must be used as the source of unemployment, unemployment, unemployment, unemployment, housing, tradesmen, farmers, the poor. If it's not going to be used today, when is the unemployment fund going to be used? When will it be used for the unemployed, for the poor, for the laborer, for the worker? Therefore, it is also very important because it is a matter of public and public health. Look, this is what we're discussing measures for. That's what we care about when we say "test. " You get angry when you say "Test. " Tests are inconclusive. 20,000 per day must be exceeded; 30,000 must be reached, 40,000 are available. Do you know how these tests should be? You know, public research is being done before the elections; this is the situation of political parties this month; this is the situation of the leaders this month; this is the situation of the leaders, this is what it is, and that logic is that test results must be explained every week, and that transparency should be seen by everyone. If this is followed, however, in the face of this corona virus, when the actual number of tests is found, the 20,000s, the 30,000s, the 40,000s, the fight against the coronavirus, the struggle to suppress and stop it; look, I'm not saying that suppression and suppression can be carried out successfully. This is a very important thing. Look, I just want to make one more point. The perception of this crisis as an opportunity for centralisation in politics is not really the right idea, you will see that it is wrong. Look, I'm telling you why I'm saying this: right now, it's imperative that the government co-operate with the local governments that have various opportunities in crisis management -- all the local governments -- co-operate with them. What's going on now? Eight trustees were appointed to our local governments last week. So the local governments fighting the corona virus were neutralized, but the opposite had to be done. What's going on now? These opportunities are being blocked by local donors. It's not the right attitude, it's definitely wrong. Look, your Home Secretary says that I am collecting help without permission. If you say that you want to create a new government, another government. Could such understanding be such a democracy? This despotic, this has nothing to do with democratic understanding. Moreover, the Minister of Interior does not know that municipalities receive the basis of grant acceptance from the Law of municipalities, from Laws 5216 and 5393. The Home Secretary's statement is also contrary to the Constitution, contrary to the 127th and 137th amendments of the Constitution. But of course, the Home Secretary has nothing to do with the Constitution, the law, or international democratic contracts, regulations and so on. He's put it all aside, and he really sees it as an opportunity to centralize this pandemic disaster, the Home Secretary. If that's the way you see it, if you're taking these steps as a power, and you're going to take them, it's going to be really heavy. Just so you know, let's stress this one more time. I want to make one last point. Our various friends have spoken here, and we'll continue to talk next week. Look, prisons, this is a very serious matter. Why is this important? Every person in prison -- whether they're arrested or convicted -- has a right to live, has a right to health, and those rights are guaranteed by the state. The state can't say that I put them in prison, no matter what. There can't be that understanding. Such understanding can't even be found in modern states, in any state, in the most despotic state. Therefore, it has to protect the rights of prisoners and prisoners in prisons. So if you don't consider the equality of execution in matters we're discussing more intensively tomorrow, if you don't protect the rights of all people who are imprisoned and convicted in prisons, in accordance with the equality of execution, life and health rights, that would be a great sin. At the same time, it would be contrary to the Constitution, as well as to democratic international contracts.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0174par0291	Mr. Oluç, finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0173par0292	I'm packing, I'm finishing, sir. We will continue to discuss this issue, of course, and don't ignore this: we are all facing a pandemic of coronavirus, a major plague, all over the world and Turkey. Everyone's struggling to get through this with the least amount of damage, and it's important to share this struggle, and we say, look, for the next semester, I'm saying this plague threat, for the period after we've been through this plague: there should be a new white page for Turkey. In terms of law, democracy, peace and justice, a new chapter should be set in terms of social peace. The way to open this new page is to take into account the proposals, demands and criticisms of social and political opposition, especially regarding prisons and measures taken. Once again, I'd like to remind the ruling parties of this. Thank you for listening.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0175par0296	Mr. Beştaş, come in.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0176par0299	Thank you, Mr. President. Actually, I took it because Mr. Saruhan received a note after he went to the stand, or I wouldn't have taken it; it's too short, Miss Özlem is here... Now, Maraş Türkoğlu is in prison -- they called from the open prison -- and the families have called later -- 12 people from Ward A3 are already quarantined as of today, and they can buy masks from the canteen for 2.5 TL. "We're very worried, " they said. You know, let's confirm that, let's look into it, and of course, we need to evacuate the prisons as soon as possible, because that's where the plague is making the biggest threat. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0177par0306	Yes, word requests have been met on behalf of the groups, the first word for the individuals is Mr. Servet Üssal. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0178par0309	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to start my speech with a statement from Victor Hugo: you want the poor who have been helped, and we want the poverty that has been eliminated. [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] Well, my friends, our country is going through a very critical time. Everyone from the government, from the people who run this country, has come up with a very, very strange picture of new ways, new support, to get through this process with minimal damage, so the mountain gave birth to a mouse. The people who ruled the country came out in front of millions, and instead of a solution to comfort the workers, the peasants, the small-incomes, the tradesman, he asked for money by handing out the account numbers. Yeah, guys, what does that mean, what does that mean? Our people are going through a very difficult time, and it's not very acceptable. There's an earthquake, the Redbeard wants money, there's an epidemic, the government wants money. Next thing you know, there's no money missing from the Federal Reserve for today. Why have millions of citizens been paying their taxes for years, where they are, where they are, where they are, friends? As a matter of fact, everyone knows it, where it is. In debt to the businessmen, to certain individuals, palaces, bridges, the biggest bridges, the biggest palaces, the largest hospitals, luxury, luxury in this country. Just a moment ago, my dear Bulent Turan said the Family Ministry solved the 309 million problems gathered to the martyrs and veterans of July 15th. But it's not solved, my friends. When the Minister of the Family talked about it, I was here, 309 million, 338 million, standing in the bank. There was an incident in Beşiktaş where 46 people died, and there was an attack, and 52 million were not given to them. So when you're in a difficult situation, let the citizens give you the money again. No, no, that's not happening anymore. Our people are already anxious, miserable. Friends, the government isn't asking for help, it's helping. I'll say this in particular once again: the government is the one who helps, not the one who asks for help. [[Applause from CHP rows]] A solution? Well, friends, the solution has already happened in this country. If we collect the taxes that the non-compulsive corporations who owe billions of pounds should pay, a serious problem will be solved. Waste, luxury, a little savings, an application like that, all needs are met. In nine years, there have been Syrian citizens who have reached five million. Guys, we've been looking at this for nine years, over $40 billion has been spent. Can't we take care of our citizens in this country for two or three months or four months? This is our, really, internal problem. If he's looking after the Syrian, the government of this country will take care of its own citizens. Yes, the crazy projects have been spent billions, but I still don't see the 131 billion collected at the unemployment fund. Just a few months ago, we said, "Don't do it," and we didn't get to see the security lines at the Central Bank, and the money for these difficult times is gone. Yeah, there was a tender with masks and gloves, a comedy, and I'm surprised how it happened, but the new airports, the bridges that were guaranteed to fly, we've been through them all the time. The executives are asking the public for money today. So, folks, I'm going to ask you about an institution right now -- and you're all thinking about it -- but where is this Redbeard? So, friends, where is Redia now, where millions are returning, donations flowing, astronomical salaries being paid? Where are the resources, why aren't they being used openly? There's silence at the time most needed. In the name of so-called philanthropy, millions have been transferred to foundations, associations. Friends, you all remember some of those foundations: here, we want to see the people's love, the TUGVA, the archers, Ensar, Limak, Kolin, Kalyon, Genghis, Çuk, Toruns, Demirören, let's see, let's see the charity of the people I count, we want to see the people's love, the state's devotion. Okay, guys, I just want to say that tourism is going to be a problem after the corona case. Give it to the farmers this year without the OTV. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yes, dear friends, there's still been trouble these days: we've seen Ankara, Istanbul municipalities, Constantinople, Urban and Antalya...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0179par0323	Mr. Ünsal, finish your words.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0178par0324	Yeah, but even Acun collects money, there's no problem, there's no curfew, but when you come to these municipalities, there's trouble, guys. [[Applause from CHP rows]] As a physician, I couldn't diagnose it, what a trauma it is to even separate people's feelings of help; I repeat, people's feelings of help cannot be isolated. Guys, I screwed up the economy, I'm gonna fix it. There's this weather, there's this image. Well, my friends, our greatest force against the epidemic, our greatest weapon is our health workers, and I would like to emphasize that here in particular. In every conversation I've had over a year and a half, I've always talked about violence in health. I repeat, I will put an end to Nazim's lines; he says: There's not much to worry about, The ears of the heart are deaf, The air is heavy as lead, I'm screaming and screaming, Run, I call on you to melt lead. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And I would like to suggest that you all come together to all political parties for the law of health and violence. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0180par0338	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0181par0339	Mr. Rich, come in.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0180par0342	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement based on the question asked by Mr. Bestaş so as not to interfere too much time. The information we received from our Ministry of Justice is, of course, that no one in Kahramanmarash has ever tested positive for corona in any prison. But in practice, if there's anyone in there who's coughing, having a Gribal infection, we're taking them to the hospital by not having them in there, and we're not putting them back in the ward after they've been treated, we're keeping them in a different place, they're staying somewhere else, they're taking precautions. So far, there are no prisoners or prisoners who have tested positive in Kahramanmarash. Such a precaution was made. This is the statement from our ministry. I'm just saying, maybe it'll be a way for the bullets to melt. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0182par0345	Thank you. The second word on his behalf belongs to Mr. Erkan Prime. Mr. Erkan Chief, please.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0183par0352	Thank you, Mr. President. I respectfully salute all the people of our country, who are watching us at the beginning of the General Assembly and their screens, who are living hard, hard-working, hard-earned lives. Now, I'd like to make a call to my friends inside the General Assembly: When you sit here all day, you lose a little connection to reality, and we get too caught up in this atmosphere. Let's remember, this is the National Assembly, we're the nation's deputy. The question is, what do millions of people in this country think from the moment we walk out that door? What's wrong with these people? What are we talking about here? I want everyone to ask themselves that question, dear friends. Look what happened here last week. We immediately added a decree from the palace to the bag, legalized it, and then we went on an open-door vacation. This week, we're here for 50 or 60 MPs, what do we do? We're negotiating international agreements. Now I'm talking, it's on TV, it's here in international agreements. Ask yourself, what does the citizen think? I mean, when I was like this, the international deal... I don't know if you guys ever looked at it, I got it all out, the international deals we're going to discuss. Look, it was signed in 2018, signed in 2015, signed in 2018, signed in 2016. So, these have been sitting on the dusty shelves of the House for four or five years, and we've found today to talk about it? Is that the problem with the country, or should we talk about it? Dear friends, if we ask you some other time, we'll say that the people are with the people. We'll say that most of them are sitting at home, staying at home. From there, we'll write on social media. But I'll make it clear that when one citizen can't stay at home, there's no chance that the people's deputy can stay at home. I mean, can we tell doctors and health workers to stay home? It's not just a health issue, but it's also a social and social problem. If this isn't gonna work out, if this isn't gonna happen, who's gonna talk about it? I really have to ask. I repeat, even a citizen can't stay at home in peace, the MP has no right to stay at home. We've been tasked with solving the problems of the people, we have to do our duty, and we need to discuss real problems, talk about real problems. Look, I talked a lot to some of the tourism guys yesterday. Millions of workers are currently unemployed, and you know what they say? Mr. President, we are not victims, we are prisoners. They say, "The prisoner, we are prisoners." What are we gonna tell these guys? We've signed international agreements, so we're just gonna say don't worry, guys? Really, everyone put your hands on your conscience and answer that question. Now, something new happened, what happened? Look, dear friends, here we have been shouting for weeks, saying that the people are poor, helpless. You say: "There is no such thing; there is no such thing. " Well, why are you doing this charity campaign? If these people aren't poor and desperate, why do we have to do this charity campaign? Because we can't solve these people's desperation. Look, really, you're the last person to tell us enough. Didn't you accuse this community of terrorists a year ago? Didn't you charge everything but yourself with the alliance of the bell? Now you say we're enough. One of the citizens said, "We are enough for you, but we are not enough for you; we cannot afford your palace, we cannot afford your bosses. So what do we need you for if we are enough for us?," says the citizen. I really think we should ask these questions. My dear friends, what needs to be done is quite clear: First of all, my brother, the truck driver, if the virus doesn't kill me, your order will kill me. We must produce formulas for millions of workers, workers, when they don't go to work; we must say, "Don't worry; you don't go to work, protect yourself, stay at home; we guarantee your children, your home, your future. [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] There's an unemployment fund, right? Why do you have this fund? That's what you get from the worker when people are in trouble, when workers are in trouble. We can't even talk about giving the worker the money we got now because we don't know if there's money or if you've used it somewhere else, or what you've done; no one knows. Dear friends, I'm saying that even if this virus doesn't kill, it kills people, so we need to change this order. Come on, let's turn this into an opportunity. I mean, we're dealing with a big trouble, a big trouble, but let's see what we have to do here, because we're competing with time. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0184par0365	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0183par0366	My dear friends, I come here at other times, and I say: "Look, the workers are in trouble. This Parliament doesn't think about workers; this Parliament doesn't do anything for workers. I've had this conversation over and over again; I've tried to share with you what I believe in all of them, what I've seen, what I've heard, what I've felt, but today... look, our people are dying day by day; every day, every day we lose... keep going to the miner today. We say, "Keep going to the miner today." We say, "We can die tomorrow; we're locking them in buses and vans. This scheme we've created is taking people away from us, so I say we stand up to it. Look, the President says we're enough. There's a $17.1 billion budget. You know what that means, guys? He spends 500 liras a second. With the money the Presidential Palace spends in four seconds, the citizen must earn a month's living. Let's not let this palace waste this money, let's give it to this citizen and live, let our people live.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit02spe0184par0369	Yes, the negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Social Security Between the Republic of Turkey and Mongolia The Law Proposal That Approvement of His Agreement Is Approved The approval of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and Mongolia signed in Ankara on March 7, 2018. Yeah, well, there's no demand on the substance. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 3- (1) The President governs these laws. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Dear lawmakers, the whole proposal is subject to an open vote. The open vote is scheduled for Thursday (April 2nd 2020). We will begin the talks of Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Sentop (Tekirdağ), the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the State of Serbia's Government of Serbia, offering the Law and the Foreign Commission Report, which are in the 4th place. Commission? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with 115 rows. He doesn't want a word on the whole offer. The negotiations are complete. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... Sustained. The government of the Republic of Turkey and the rule of the Republic of Serbia have been established in accordance with the understanding of air deployment in the area. The approval of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which was signed in Antalya on October 19, 2015. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There's no demand on the substance. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 3- (1) The President governs these laws. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The entire proposal is subject to an open vote. The open vote is scheduled for Thursday (April 2nd 2020). We will begin talks with Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Sentop (Tekirdağ) and Turkish Republic of Turkey's Government of Turkey and with the proposal of the Dair Law and Foreign Commission Report (Kurkish Republic of Cyprus) that the implementation of the Business Union Appliance Protocol on Shared Data is appropriate. Commission? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 122 rows. There's no rhetorical demands on the entire proposal. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... Sustained. THE PROTECTION OF THE PROTECTION OF THE CONTROLATION OF THE CONTROLATION OF CONTROLATION OF THE CONTROLATION OF THE CONTROLATION OF THE CONTACT OF THE CONTROLATION OF THE CONTROCY OF THE CONTROCY OF THE CONTACT OF THE CONTROLATION OF THE CONTINUATION OF THE CONTROCTION OF THE TURITURBIS The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey, signed on February 7, 2019 in Nicosia, and the Business Union Appliance Protocol on Sharing Data Between the Government of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 3- (1) The President governs these laws. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Dear lawmakers, the whole proposal is subject to an open vote. The open vote is scheduled for Thursday (April 2nd 2020). I'm taking a minute off from the merger.
tbmm-2020-04-01sit03spe0184par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 76th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will begin negotiations with Law Proposal No. 163. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin negotiations with Law Proposal No. 192. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission will not be found after this, the decision is made that law proposals and other tasks from the commissions will be discussed in order of Thursday (April 2nd 2020), at 14 p.m. on Thursday (April 2020). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
