tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 72nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Dear lawmakers, in these days when we're fighting against a global problem, it means a lot to me to participate in the work of our Parliament and to run the General Assembly, because this Parliament is a source of hope, excitement and enthusiasm for our nation. Even in the most violent days of disaster, this Parliament has maintained its function, instilling hope in everyone as a ray of light that does not cast the horizons into darkness. Even when bombs were dropped on Ankara's steppe during the invasion, members of this House were bound by their duties. And when he saw the effort of the host, he and his chiefs stood firm. And the Corona virus, as one of the many disasters that this nation has fought and won, will soon be history. A thousand years ago, orhun Abides, planted in the steppes of Asia, and the National Assembly, which opened up to the steppe of Ankara a hundred years ago, say the same thing: the nation will not give up until the wind breaks down below, and the blue sky falls above. [[AK PARTY, MHP and GOOD PARTY]] Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Kırıkkale MP Halil Ozturk, who wants to talk about the problem of digital addiction in Turkey. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the problem of digital addiction in Turkey. I salute, respectfully, our esteemed viewers, who are watching us at the beginning of the General Assembly and their screens. At the beginning of my speech, I'd like to say that we want all our citizens to maintain a high sense of staying at home in the process of the coronavirus that we've been through and we've been in a serious public struggle. We, your representatives, are working as a representative of your will. Please declare your own State of Emergency and stay home. But I would also like to remind our citizens who have not left their homes due to measures against the coronavirus. Some of us use digital technology to pass the time. Please don't let technology turn you into an addict. May your sensitivity apply to all individuals in the house as well as to yourself. Read books, listen to music, paint, chat with wives and children, let's have social interests. Again, in this critical coronavirus process, terrorist organizations should not be allowed to share provocative coronavirus by causing fear and panic to the public, by spreading information and documents that are contrary to reality, and by publishing them, to be allowed to take credit for official statements. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, today technology is moving and evolving very quickly, and it's spreading. In the name of self-satisfaction, many people use different places like the Internet, social media, and the game to an extreme degree of addiction. According to TÜİK data, computer and internet use rates are increasing every year when age groups are studied in Turkey. Not only has our country's digital addiction threatened the new generation and the middle-aged people, but it threatens everyone from the children's home to the children's car. I'm just saying that it threatens, because it can also be seen in people who use technology in extreme and unconscious ways, which is digitally addictive. Complainings such as physical fatigue, body posture disorder, numbness in the hands, burning in the eyes and muscle pain have arisen in this scope. In addition, problems such as obsessive, depressed, overprotective, anxious, distracted, self-safety, lowness, loneliness, and face - to - face contact can be seen. Professor Dr. Tuncay Dilci and his colleagues who have done serious work in this area -- and I congratulate themselves on their dedicated work on digital addiction -- and according to a recent study of 842 workers, 28 per cent of employees who touch digital objects during the evenings or over three hours of rest have been identified as having low performance, low attention loss and increased business accidents. Dear lawmakers, another problem that arises in digital addiction is digital games that turn our children and young into addicts. From an early age, we can see that violence is increasing in our children and young people who play violent games. These games also trigger and restrict our children's ability to solve problems while creating turmoil in their inner world, as well as a negative sense of conscience. The number of suicides caused by digital games in Turkey are not yet out of our memory. The family factor is important, not in the virtual environment, but in providing social needs with their real - life or relationship. Let's not forget that the most important thing about the Turkish nation is that family ties are very strong. We ruled for centuries from the Adriatic to the Great Wall of China and did not lose ourselves. So let's not let our family bond break through digital addiction. Let's keep them away from digital addiction by creating environments to spend a lot more time with our children. Let's not forget, technology is good, but it's much better not to be technological. He believes that as soon as we get out of our coronavirus struggle, we'll have a national victory, and we'll celebrate our health workers once again, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0003par0021	The second non-responsive statement belongs to Servant MP Özkan Yılim, who wants to talk about the impact of the coronavirus on the economy. Here you go, Mr. Yum.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0004par0025	Mr. President, my dear Court, our dear colleagues and all our fellow citizens who have been watching us, I give you all my warmest feelings of love and respect. I wish to congratulate them all for their hard work, especially our healthcare workers, in the hope of having no viruses, no disease. Dear friends, I point out that this disease is a problem that we can all fight together, with all our cabinets, all our esteemed ministers, especially Parliament, and our mayors, our governors, all of our citizens, together. For him, what I'm about to do here is certainly not the opposition, but only in the interests of our citizens, a talk about our support needed to make it through this process in the best possible way. First, we've had a lot of drivers in two days, about 60 kilometers on the side of Bulgaria, 10 kilometers on the side of Turkey -- because they ran out of rations. I called Edirne Mayor Recep Gürkan Bey last night, who temporarily solved the problem with support for more than a thousand people. I'd especially like to thank the mayor of Edirne. Dear citizens, dear fellow lawmakers, you know, last week, I'm going to give you an example or two with a speech by the President of France, especially in France, which was the head of these infected countries before us. I ask that the President, the Minister of Interior, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health, take a particular example of this conversation from here. You know, it's been announced by the government that we have about 131 billion TL in the unemployment fund. I hope this money is in order because I'm stressing that money should be used these days. Mr. Emmanuel Macron declared a war on this disease -- a war was declared, certainly not on any other country -- but on just one virus -- a 300 billion-euro budget for this war. You know, of course, health first, but health will come with this virus, and we will certainly do everything we can with our health workers. However, during this virus, we have problems with our workplaces and our citizens working in these workplaces. For that reason, Mr. Macron -- as we just said -- explained that a budget of 300 billion euros has been set aside. No company will go bankrupt in the process, providing the basic needs of the public. In the meantime, the soldiers will be assigned to transport the patients. All companies will be paid and no layoffs, employees will be paid in insurance and unemployment. All public needs, such as soap, gel and detergent, will be provided for free. In the meantime, all hotels and taxis will provide free support, and this will be provided by the government. There's more like this... Today, however, I have observed that the People's Bank lends 25 thousand to our tradesmen, 25 thousand to 50,000 TL. Of course, it's useful, it's not bad, but let's not borrow any more of our citizens and tradesmen, but let's talk about what needs to be done. Look, what has been explained by the presidential decree, what sectors have been closed? In short, I'd like to share this with you first. Look, our valued lawmakers, our valued citizens, hotels, restaurants, cafes, theaters, theaters, men's barbers, women's salons, baths, beauty salons, entertainment venues, wedding halls, meeting halls, transport industry, shipping, shipping, all sectors in the land transport, travel agencies, even flower industry closed today, you know. So as soon as Canada has set aside 83 billion euros, France has set aside 300 billion euros, we need to do that with our budget of 131 billion euros, and I, Mr. President... We have workers working in these sectors, we have records, we have business records, we have employees working in all those sectors, we have NGO entrances. For this reason, these records are being examined, so in order to prevent these people from going bankrupt, the workers' insurance first has to be covered, the workers' insurance is either covered by the government, and they definitely have to be covered by the government, because these citizens have to live in their homes, and these citizens have to continue their living activities in some way. Besides, you know, as in many sectors, electricity, water, natural gas, as well as this process, until this extraordinary situation is over, until the effect of this virus wears off, any family of four needs water, electricity, and natural gas should definitely be met by our government. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, you're going to say, how are we going to do all of this? Our valued citizens, our valued parliamentary friends; again, if the budget in this 131 billion-dollar unemployment fund is not enough, I'm telling you: about $8.5 billion, a year's worth of money, that's guaranteed access to highways, bridges, tunnels, hospitals, and airports -- when we extend these payments for just a year, it's enough to pay for one month's needs, rents, pensions and insurance for all of this sector. So I think that's how we're going to solve this, and I'm particularly highlighting that. Another thing is -- you know -- a reduced sentence. From here, we address our fellow AK PARTI MPs: our fellow trustees in the Commission have asked you to do so, and they are expecting you to do so, and I say, "Bring this proposal for our citizen immediately, and we will do what we need to do to get it right." Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0005par0041	The third statement outside the agenda belongs to Istanbul MP Osman Boyraz, the founder of the Grand Unity Party, who has asked to address the 11th anniversary of the death of the deceased Mr. Muhsin Yazıoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Boyraz.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0006par0045	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise on the anniversary of the death of Mr. Muhsin Yazıoğlu, the founder of the Grand Union Party. On this occasion, I salute you and our beloved nation, watching us on their screens, with my most heartfelt feelings, longing, and conversation. I'd like to share a poem of his own, which we all feel in our hearts, which is a lisp in his tongue. O master of eternity, I want to reach you. Wait, don't close my windows, Don't turn off my sun, The concrete is so cold, I'm cold. That's how he described how he felt. He said, "I feel cold." He couldn't have known, or anyone else, that the place to say goodbye would be as cold as the poem he wrote 25 years ago. The verses written on the broken stones of Mamak Prison were, in a sense, the lines of Yazıoğlu's fate. Not on a white page in a black hole, but on the white snows of Berit. His life was full of endless struggles, a feeling, a thought, a man of the cause, Yazıoğlu. Whether he agreed with her or not, he was a man everyone appreciated, everyone, his humanity, his gentlemanliness, his dignity. He lived as one of the thousands, millions of patriots raised in the bosom of Asia Minor, and one afternoon, he disappeared into the unknown of his hometown, which he loved as much as his soul. His departure was as gentle as his presence, quietly, in his own way. What is this fire that burns as it burns? / Don't know, how to turn it off, how to turn it off? / His absence is stuck like a dagger. / No longer smell of thyme. As the poet puts it, I had the first chance to know the brave son of Muhsin Yazıoğlu, who burned like a fire in our hearts from that day. In 1991, we noticed two posters of Sivas' streets, streets, squares, and streets: "Who is Muhsin? Who are the streets, the streets? Who is Muhsin??" The wave was equipped with posters; everyone was curious to the provinces of all Sivas. Yes, who is Muhsin? A journalist asked him the same question years later -- two months before his death -- who is Mohsin to you? In his answer, Muhsin Yazıoğlu: I'd rather leave the evaluations to my beloved nation than to myself. Because in one place, the politician's owner is not himself, but the people. The love, prayer, and support of the nation are the mirror of the politician, he said. Now, that's a question he left to the public. I know how difficult it is to say a word, to make a statement about Muhsin Yazıoğlu. I'm aware of neither the words in my vocabulary nor the time. Now, as the nation's representative, when my tongue turns, I'll try to tell you about Muhsin Yazıoğlu. Who's Muhsin? The hands of the mud, in patched clothes, a fat-faced Anatolian boy who's been running down and down the steppes, holding on to the dream of getting back on his feet every time he falls. Like the years on the moors, the head of the Kulmac Mountains is a dry country boy. A cypress tree saluting the sky alone in the eyes, in the mountains' bosom, in the bed of thyme smell, in the love of dreams beyond. Don't be afraid, God is with us in the days of the sultan's refuge in the cave. A faithful man who puts his code into it. You don't know, they're shooting him in the back from a mile away. Go grab him by the collar and grab him by the tie and tell him who told you that. We shoot the man not in the back of his back two kilometers, but in the forehead ten centimeters. On July 15th, he sends his greetings to Omar Halisdemir. He is the name of a man who fears no power but Allah. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] A nunar, whose branches grew from the bosom of Osman Gazi, to the mountains that saw the sea, to the mountains that held the name of Ahmed Yesevi, Sultan of the Sultans, for sixty-three years, for the love of Muhammad, and for himself to see this world as a prison. It's like a dolphin who kneels down at the bottom of his knee and grooms his soul while a famine cuts through the door, and he takes to the chamber of worship and brings wheat to his people. Who is Muhsin? The closest of Chechen volunteers who brought the Russians to their knees in the Caucasus Mountains was an ademoglu, who was worried about their troubles. Zeybek in the Aegean, a horon in the Black Sea, a halay in Anatolia, a slander in the East, a star of the seven climates that have made every part of the land their own heart. It's a snowflower that touches the round mountains, the unbreakable rivers, the oppressed hearts.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0007par0062	Pack it up. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0006par0063	Like an eagle in the plains, a man who breaks all the chains, a man who goes beyond me, a man who loves other lands. He's an Anatolian lover who prays with tayammum and prays in a dark room in cold, painful prison days, despite torture and suffering. On February 28th, at the most brutal, frightening times, I will not bow to a tank that has turned its name into a libas on the words of its heart. On July 15th, I will not salute the tank, guiding its nation from many years ago. Who is Muhsin? Mohsin is a man of courage; I asked him, in fact, from Sivas; he is the son of the people; Mohsin Yazıoğlu. May his place be in heaven, God rest his soul.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0008par0068	Congressmans, now, I'm going to promise the first 15 lawmakers who enter the system to their place for a minute. After these words, Mr. Group, I'll meet the VP's demands. Mr. Chepni...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0009par0072	Thank you, Mayor. There are over 100,000 people working in call centers. Those who are not involved in the call to stay home are the call workers. All call workers, including those with chronic diseases, are in the same crowded working conditions, and these environments are an average of 1,000 people. Ferhat Ceylan, the Vodafone account representative, was fired after sharing risky working conditions, but refused to accept the incident because the company ran it through subcontractor. The power leaves millions of workers, workers, to die. All employees must be put on sabbatical immediately.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0010par0075	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0011par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. Our national wealth is the forest, the lungs of our country, and the greatest source of wealth. The forests we can't end up counting their benefits prevent erosion, prevent floods, feed underground water supplies, and restore natural balance. Therefore, the protection of our forests is vital to the future of our country. With that consciousness, under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we have made huge investments for nearly 18 years as EC PARTI governments to increase the number of forests and trees in Turkey, to improve its biodiversity, to protect the environment. We have increased Turkey's forest presence as the world's forest presence wanes. In 2002, 20.8 million hectares of forest increased our presence by 1.8 million hectares in the last 18 years to 22.6 million hectares. We've done 40 times as much wooding as the burning areas. On the occasion of Forest Week, I salute all the employees of our Forest Service, who have worked so hard in all this success, the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0010par0079	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0012par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, March 22nd was the World Water Day. Today, it is recommended by our doctors that the most important drug to be used to protect the world's plague from the coronavirus is water, and the hands are often met with water, soap. In developing countries, 80 percent of all diseases are due to lack of water and medical hygiene. Turkey is not a water-rich country. From the year 2030, there's a good chance it'll be a water-poor country. For this reason, resources must be protected and wisely used in order to leave healthy and adequate water for future generations of Turkey. The use of gray water should be considered. My constituency area is the Metropolitan Municipality, especially in the industry, which is spreading the use of gray water. The water is not only for drinking, but also for cleaning up and preventing disease, and I salute the General Assembly, he says.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0013par0084	Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0014par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. I celebrate the Emergency Medical Technologies and Technicians Week of March 22-28 of Emergency Medical Techniques and Technicians, who work day and night with all kinds of hardship and hardship. We've always been there for them, and we've always been there for them, knowing that each of our greatest powers in achieving our goal of being a healthy society are our healthcare workers. I'd like to say once again that we will be saved from this difficult process by our dedicated medics. Our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, led by Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, let the state live. With his understanding, our country has set an example for all countries of the world in health. With the policy we've seen in the Coronavirus epidemic, it's seen again. While many European countries' health systems are down, we are beginning to produce local respirators, local test kits, vaccine development. Turkey now says it follows the results, instead of following the events, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0015par0091	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0016par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to thank the Minister of Finance for postponing credit cards and credit payments for our tradesmen and our people. Of course, our farmers expect good news from our Minister. Our farmers and our livestock workers need to delay their debt to Agriculture Loan, Agriculture Bank and other banks without interest, to open the additional credit limit, to support our producers. Without the peasant, without the farmer, without the livestock people, we don't exist. Debt delays should not be left to the initiative of banks, but a general decision covering everyone must be made. In addition, our Ministry of Family, Labor, and Social Services should increase the number of families in cash benefits that poor families make per capita, and every family with benefits must be given in cash. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0017par0098	Mr. Kaya...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0018par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. Emergency Medical Technicians and Technicians Week is a very important week, which reminds us of what could happen to us at any moment, which we should be so sensitive about. Our EMTs are the hope that people are waiting for when life and life intersect. We give thanks to all of our medical staff today, from doctor to nurse and health workers, who all work selflessly and selflessly, who spend their nights in the daytime, who are fighting against the epidemic, by bringing morale and healing to our entire nation. On this occasion, I congratulate all of our health workers, who are working with great sacrifices, who have made life-saving principles for themselves, who are an essential part of providing quality health care to people, who are dedicated to their duties, and who are dedicated to their tasks, and to all of our health workers, who wish superior success in their duties, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0019par0104	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0020par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, we are also dealing with the new strain of coronavirus. In this regard, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President, I am deeply convinced that all our citizens have carried out the measures taken by our ministries and all our authorities. In order to avoid spreading the epidemic and to maintain the health of ourselves, our relatives, and society, we need to be careful of personal hygiene, avoid social contact, and not go out of our homes except in necessity. We must act on ourselves, on our loved ones, on our neighbors and on our country. It's a total struggle, and it's up to us to get rid of the plague and make it work together. Our call to all our citizens for tomorrows of our children, our family, our loved ones and our country. Stay home, Turkey! I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0019par0108	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0021par0110	Mr. President, we must observe the rules of hygiene and health against infectious diseases, and we must do it all the time, not underestimate the advice of experts. In the 1400 years, the American medical examiner, Soapcuzade Şeraftin Efendi Mucerrebname, reportedly wash his hands well in the days of the plague. And again, in the circumstances of that day, they disinfected the dirt with lime dust. Health is a matter of the body, but it's a matter of the mind.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0019par0111	Mr. Erel...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0022par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. In each period of his life, in a sense of unrequited dedication, the rise of national and spiritual values has made it a principle to sacrifice his existence and his future for the existence and unity of the nation and the country. I am Turkish, not without a Turkish flag; I am Turkish, not Turkish; I am Turkish, not without a Turkish state; I am Turkish, not without Turkish freedom; I am Turkish, not Turkish; I am Turkish, not Turkish prisoners. He has always been a straight follower of a great cause, a pure and simple leader of a pure and pure country. On the 11th anniversary of the death of Muhsin Yazıoğlu, a lover of the land and nation, I pray for the mercy of Genab, whose place is in heaven and his soul.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0019par0115	Mr. Ozsoy...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0023par0117	Mr. President, we have to be as careful and attentive as possible in the pandemic of coronavirus that affects the world. It is clear that our fight against Coronavirus is far more powerful than its counterparts in the world. I give thanks to Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our president, Mr. Fahrettin Koca. Our health minister, Mr. Fahrettin, and to all of our health workers, the Treasury and Finance Minister, Mr. Berat Collarak, our Minister of Interior who did not challenge the opportunists, Mr. Süleyman Nobleman, our Security Agency and everyone who worked hard in this process. Our government has taken all the necessary precautions and measures; it is aware of how serious and sensitive the issue is. Our greatest duty is to follow the rules of hygiene and support the process by staying in our homes. Each must declare his own State of Emergency in his own home and nearby environment.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0019par0119	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0024par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Power, our esteemed congressman friends, especially thousands of citizens abroad, are trapped. Especially in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar, Cyprus, and many other countries that I can't count, our workers, our citizens, have become seriously victims, and are now trapped. Therefore, the State Department must immediately come with an economic package to solve the problems of our citizens there. We can also send a few planes and bring them in, the ones that are in a lot of trouble, because there are seven or eight people left in one room. We'd like you to come up with a solution as soon as possible. Really, our citizens are victims, our workers are victims. Once again, here I say we're waiting for a solution. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0025par0124	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0026par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. And I wish you once again the success of the health workers who are ahead of the battle against the coronavirus. I'd like to state that Turkey is behind the Grand National Assembly. Other than that, we appreciate the fact that local governments are particularly successful in public transportation, but unfortunately, there is a problem with interstate bus transport. There have been problems with that in my constituency. I'm afraid the hygienic conditions aren't being provided. Some precautions have been taken today, but we don't think that's enough. I would like to ask that the sector be supported on this issue and that measures be taken to ensure that no further victims of the corona virus will be exposed regarding inter-city bus transport. There are also 1,500 workers working at the Josephite Dam in my constituency. There are no hygiene conditions here. I'd like to request that all necessary measures be taken, if necessary, be taken in the matter of hiring workers on sabbatical. Mr. President, thank you for this opportunity.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0027par0131	Mr. Eyebrow...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0028par0133	Mr. President, in these troubled days of our country, measures should be taken that will benefit us financially, as well as the measures taken by our government for one of the fundamental stones of our economy, our tradesmen and employers. Because it's well known that our financiers and artists, whose capital is limited, do not have the strength to endure as large businesses do. Because of the outbreak, the market and the streets were empty, and our tradesmen and artists were unable to do business, but their payments, such as checks, bonds, rent, taxes, credit, electricity, and the SGK continued. All expenses must be postponed, non-refundable, non-refundable loans and financial opportunities until people return to social life, when the threat of the virus has been explained by officials, and credit debts must be flexible. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0027par0135	Mr. Stoneborn...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0029par0137	Mr. President, members of parliament, March 22-28 is celebrated as emergency medical technicians and Paramedic Week. Emergency health care is an important service that provides health care that our people need in their most difficult moments, which is self-sacrificing, self-absorbed, determined, and selfless service. On this occasion, let no one doubt that we will be able to go through this process with the zeal and self - sacrificing work of our health workers. At such times, the power of our government rises on the shoulders of health workers who work with great sacrifice. Happy Emergency Medical Technicians and Paramedic Week. The great Turkish nation, emergency medical technicians and paramedics on duty, says, "Stay home, Turkey!" I thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0027par0139	Mr. Aydemir...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0030par0141	Mr. President, thank you. The saddest, most impressive concepts in this environment are social solidarity and social sensitivity. You-I'm going through a time when we're going to remove your subjects from the ligament. In terms of the health of mankind, the common act is essential. Those who act accordingly are our crown. We are grateful to the municipalities of Yakutiye, Palandöken and Aziziye County, especially our municipality of Erzurum Metropolitan, which brings this sensitivity to its peaks. Houses are being cleaned, corners are being cleared of germs. Again, Paşin, Horasan, Bridgeköy, Tetman, Karayaz, Ashkale, Çat, Marketway, Hınis, İspi, Tortum, Narman, Oltu, Ollü, Longdere, Şenkaya districts are also really filling their eyes with their sensibilities. The same goes for the original efforts of the City of Mamak. We thank and express our gratitude to all of them, along with the white-hearted localities and all the other agencies who act with responsibility.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0031par0144	Now, Mr. Group, I'm going to make a promise to the Vice President. Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0032par0147	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we continue to fight the coronavirus, which underpins all humanity. Yesterday, we received news that Galatasaray's manager, my dear friend Fatih Terim, also tested positive, and I learned with regret. The negligence of the Turkish Football Federation and the government, which did not decide to postpone the matches in time, unfortunately, has led us to this sad news. We wish our dear Master Fatih and all our patients well well, and we wish them a speedy recovery. I've been telling you for days that measures should be increased, more radical measures should be taken, restricted to the streets. Mr. Minister of Health Fahrettin, we value the transparency and effort of the husband until now. But if the government doesn't declare that it's restricting to the street, if it delays any longer, the number of cases will increase without being interrupted, and unfortunately these figures -- I regret to say -- confirm our view. One thing I've noticed, politicians don't listen much to the Science Board. According to information that I have received, the Science Council is reporting to the government that it wants more radical measures, particularly restrictions on the street, but the government does not approve. We still don't understand why it's not appropriate. We're wondering what the government is waiting for, despite the Science Board report, when curfews are being declared in many countries where the virus has spread, and things are getting worse in our country. On the other hand, I'd like to congratulate our hard-working health workers. At a time like this, they shoulder an important burden, and they continue to shoulder it.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0033par0153	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0032par0154	President Erdogan announced the appointment of 20,000 teachers following last week's coronavirus meeting with the ministers. We find this appointment to be a positive, even though it's late, and congratulations on our assigned teaching. Even doctors who have been suspended by the SEC and waiting to return to duty should be called to duty, but we haven't seen that sensitivity yet these days. The appointment of 32,000 medical staff was made by the Minister of Health, Mr. Husband, in his statement last night. I'd like to give Mr. Husband a warning: With the number of cases and casualties among the public, the number of people who are getting better; more specific explanations, such as how much we lack if we don't have enough respirators, how much production or imports; how many patients wait as reserves in the intensive care unit, how many patients are in intensive care, and how many patients are in intensive care, we expect to be more precise figures. Otherwise, that trust that he created could disappear very quickly. Another thing is that the government still hasn't taken the necessary measures to address the citizens' concerns. Look, I'm off to school one night and I'm off to school, and you're not paid. How will these people live? They were already paid $1,350. How will those who can't pay their bills, who can't go to work live, how will they live? We also heard President Erdoğan's statements today, and he said it might be helpful to discuss a postponement of the payment of the bills. ▪ Such a decision can be made. There's no way that natural gas and electricity could go off. The state is a social state; we are determined on this issue; such a step cannot be taken in the social state. And we want this to happen as soon as possible.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0034par0159	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0032par0160	Our suggestion is that by following the advice of the Science Council, by taking further consideration of the health of our people, by making more comprehensive assessments. I salute the great Parliament. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0035par0163	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0036par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. I pray to God for the mercy of our citizens who died of the Corona virus and for the healing of our patients. In the 21st century, mankind and all countries face the disaster of the Colorado epidemic, the source of which is China. The world is now opening the door to a new order. The Coronan era will create economic, social, individual and political transformations and then determine the path map of the human race. It is a historic duty to be prepared now, to act with a sovereign will, to be prepared in case. Intercontinental interaction with globalization has caused this epidemic to spread throughout the world. An Operational Centre was established in the Ministry of Health on January 6, 2020, in case of a possible outbreak, and on January 10, 2020, the Science Board was organized and the development of the deadly virus was closely monitored, and alternative combat plans were formulated. The Coronavirus was declared by the World Health Organization on 11 March 2020. Our country has taken action before the European and American continents in order to prevent the outbreak, in accordance with the analysis of the Science Council. The epidemic has brought down the unity of European countries, and our border neighbors have faced major problems that will result in later years. In our country, we've been dealing with a high-intensity corona agenda for the past two months.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0037par0170	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0036par0171	In view of this situation, it is a fact that the coronavirus, with its nationally-time spirit, has achieved significant achievements in state-national hand-to-hand. Let the people live so that the state can live. The consciousness is well held in all levels of the state. The Economic Stabilisation Shield Support Plan, announced by Mr. President on March 18, 2020, will give our citizens a relatively good breath; a decent move is a clear result of the understanding of the social state. The important thing for our country is to face the siege of the virus with unity, unity and awareness of responsibility, gradually reducing the damage and damage that can be caused. The rule of stay at home is a national task, a rule that every citizen must observe carefully. Pennsylvania crumbs and foreign media organs have attempted to undermine our country's reputation at every turn.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0037par0174	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0036par0175	The defamation campaigns of the charlatans and the media assassins who are at the end of their rope in Pennsylvania are futile. On July 15th, the final struggle of these evil centers that hit the Turkish nation's steel heart and its riveted will is tragic. Our nation must be on alert against the black propaganda of the klicks and invalids. Every darkness is a messenger of light, and every calamity is a bearer of glad tidings of a prosperous day. Our government and our nation have the strength, experience, and scientific savings to defeat this plague that surrounds the world. All our citizens must obey the rules explained by the Ministry of Health and the Science Board, obey the rules of responsibility and obligation, and should not be respected for any comment or explanation except official explanations.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0037par0177	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0036par0178	Mr. President, on 25 March 2009, my hand and the death of our friend, the chairman of the Great Unity Party, are at peace with the 11th anniversary of his death. As of today, facts and evidence have also revealed that this helicopter crash was the assassination of a terrorist organization. On this occasion, we also condemn this wicked and treacherous organization of terrorists. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0037par0180	Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0038par0182	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I mean, of course, it's something we don't want to talk about these days, but we have to. Look, something incredible happened yesterday; perhaps many of you don't realize it, but as of Monday morning, the Ministry of Internal Affairs appointed trustees to eight of our municipalities; they appointed trustees to eight of our municipalities. Batman County Municipality, Diyarbakır Silvan, lice, Ergani, İğdir Halfeli Municipality, Bitlis Norşin Municipality, Siirt Gökçekağ Belde Municipality; 8 municipalities were appointed trustees yesterday. In the entire society against Coronavirus, we were suddenly appointed trustees to eight of our municipalities as we struggled, fought together, protected human health, public health. Now, what these municipalities have done, what they've done since this corona virus came out, I want to briefly sum it up for you. These municipalities, number one, have created emergency communication lines that our citizens can reach at the time of need. These municipalities prepared social aid packages for our citizens who could not provide basic food and cleaning products and continued to work to identify and meet the needs of elderly and disadvantaged groups. These municipalities have allowed pregnant, chronically ill personnel and disabled employees with children under 12 years of age. These municipalities have increased their control over businesses trying to buy opportunities for the Covid-19 epidemic. These municipalities have announced that they will not delay the infrastructure work that will cause water shortages, and in the coming months they will not cut the water supply of any households or workplaces due to water debt.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0039par0190	Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0038par0191	These municipalities, public transportation vehicles, places of worship, fruit vegetables, neighborhood markets, animal markets, parks, public transportation stops, bussiers, parking lots and citizens' busy areas have been regularly decontaminated and continue to provide this service. These municipalities have decided to postpone the planned mass culture, art, etc. activities to a later date, and have ensured a thorough and detailed cleanup, disinfecting work in all the municipalities and buildings operating within them. So these municipalities have been dealing with these studies that they've been doing since the day the corona virus came out. But what happened? These municipalities are now appointed trustees. So far, it has left 26 municipalities from 65 municipalities; it has now appointed trustees to eight other municipalities, 18 municipalities to go.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0040par0195	Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0038par0196	Thank you. Now, where do we think we're going to keep it when we're talking about it, so if you look at it legally, from the beginning of the law, from the beginning of the law; if you look at it as a humanity, a truly anti-human attitude; if you look at it from the public perspective; a hostile attitude to the people; politically, if you look at it, I ask the ruling of the Justice and Development Party, how can you defend this kind of thing? So, when we're all fighting against the coronavirus, you're arguing that these services should not be given by assigning trustees to the municipalities that provide this service to the Kurdish people? Now, every time we take a step, you're hostile to the Kurdish people. When we say, "You're angry, you're jumping to the ceiling, but let's say it again: What is this? What in God's name has gotten into the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the government that removed the municipalities fighting against the Corona virus? Is that something to defend?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0041par0200	Mr. Oluç, let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0038par0201	I'm picking it up, sir. Really, sometimes you can't get a word in edgewise. I mean, it's not tangible at all. We're very interested in how you stand up for it. Get out of this chair and defend it. Now, you're suspending, that's not enough -- you're working on the D.O.D. Act, not enough -- you've detained the co-chairs. The mayors of these eight municipalities are now in custody. Yeah, he went to the front of the municipality, eight to ten people, and you took them into custody, saying, "Why are you taking them away?" Some were released last night, some are still in custody. I mean, you're going to evacuate the so-called prisons with the Execution Act, but on the other hand, you're doing it. Now, really, it's hard for you to decide what words to judge, but once again, let me say a few things in particular. We clearly define this as hostility to the Kurdish people, and how you do what we define this work, the government shows it once again in every step of the way to the public. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The last sentence, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0042par0207	Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0038par0208	I assure you, not just the Kurdish people, but everyone in this country, the whole community -- especially the Turkish people -- will never adopt your hostile attitude, and this opportunistic attitude, rather than cooperate with these local governments, will surely lose the opportunity to suspend local governments. The trustees and trustees will pass through history once again as a black mark. In particular, let us once again stress to you that we would never accept your hostility toward the people when solidarity in the fight against the coronavirus was necessary. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0043par0211	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0044par0213	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, 37 of our people were killed yesterday in the outbreak of coronavirus, and I wish them all God's mercy and my condolences to their relatives. In light of the data released yesterday by the Minister of Health, 24,017 of our citizens have been tested, and 1.529 of our citizens are being treated, and I wish for immediate recovery. Since the World Health Organization's real challenge is based on carriers, we need to run more tests, make the process more transparent. It's vital that our people stay home at this time. We're calling all our citizens to stay home, but if we're calling our people to stay home, we have to provide economic and social conditions for them to stay at home. Unfortunately, we entered the Corona epidemic with unemployment based on 14 per cent. Stay in the house. Our people are concerned about both unemployment and loss of work. We have paid teachers who are paid by the hour, people who set up counters in the market, people who try to make ends meet at the end of the month with minimum wage, people who make a living by collecting paper; we have manufacturers who can't figure out how to pay for the worker next door; we have shoppers who have lowered the shutters. If we don't give our citizens a breath, we can't keep them at home, we can't get through this process. The social government must take care of its citizen now. Yesterday, the 13-point proposal that Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu explained to the public includes the responsibilities of the social state, the basic conditions for the process to be overcome with minimal damage. Our president's proposals are as follows: 1) The Economic and Social Council, which has not been convened since February 5, 2019, must be convened, all relevant institutions must be invited. 2) The medical needs and housing needs of health organizations must be met immediately.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0045par0221	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0044par0222	3) An employee deficit in public health care companies must be fixed quickly, while those sent with the NGO must be called back to health services. 4) Military hospitals must be opened in terms of both the epidemic and national security. 5) Central administration and municipalities must work together. 6) The temporarily closed workplaces should be covered by the Treasury Department, while employees must be covered by minimum wage, and employees' loans must be delayed by three months. 7) Farmers' debts must be restructured and delayed without interest. 8) Victims of paid teachers and schoolteachers who are unable to receive a fee due to mandatory school holidays must be compensated. 9) A new arrangement must be made in Turkey's Grand National Assembly for small and medium enterprises to use loans. 10) The accommodation must be made easy for places that show activities such as transportation. 11) As the poor deal with their health, two thousand liras of income must be guaranteed.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0046par0232	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0044par0233	12) Those who endanger their own health must be paid two wages per month, and violence in health must be prevented immediately, and this law must be passed. 13) Guaranteed Treasury payments made by public and private cooperation must be postponed by one year. We've moved 22 of our motions for the implementation of these foundations that Mr. Kilicdaroglu announced yesterday to the General Assembly's agenda. In order for our country to survive this process with minimal damage, to maintain the lives of our people, we need unity and solidarity. I believe that these arrangements, which are essential to our citizens, can be carried out by hand, with respect.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0047par0236	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0048par0238	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the General Assembly. Once again, I salute our health workers, who have taken over the world and put great effort and effort to fight the coronavirus, which has spread to almost all the geography around the world, and I congratulate them. Again, I wish God's mercy to our citizens who have been infected and lost their lives in the fight against this virus, and my condolences to their relatives. Mr. President, Mr. Kemal Kılıçdaroglu's sister Fikiye Dalklıç Rahmetirahman has recently been reunited with the Republican People's Party's Party, and we, the AK PARTY Group, offer them our condolences again. The talks here have been criticised for certain policies of power. Of course, political parties will be critical, we can't say anything about that, everyone is getting close to their own issues. But I don't think it's right to accuse us of Kurdish hostility. We don't accept that. There's no way we can have any hostility towards any of our citizens. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0049par0243	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The People's Democratic Party Group has a motion in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet 24/3/2020 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 23 March 2020, the parliamentary inquiry motion for the appointment of trustees to Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) municipalities (5920 group) was proposed by the Deputy Chair of the Siirt MP's Party, to be met on Tuesday (24/3/2020). On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Diryet Dilan Taşdemir.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0050par0259	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, we've been talking about the trustee regime, the trustee gas, the corruption of trustees on this bench since 2016. It's embarrassing for Congress and for the history of democracy, but unfortunately, you've been going on this embarrassing situation for four years, and every time you stand on the stand, you take this embarrassing situation, and you insist on being a part of it. Dear friends, once again, trustees are the name of theft of wills, trustees, Talamer, trustees, extortion. Look, while the AKP is dealing with one of the largest epidemics in the history of the world, it's obviously political opportunism by turning this epidemic into Allah's grace once again. While everyone is in a hurry to fight the corona, the AKP is fighting the Kurds, our municipalities. People are looking for lives, and dozens of people are dying every day. What's the first thing you think of in this red apocalypse? You get up one morning, you carve out our municipalities, you raid them. We have to deal with this fascism created by the AKP, leaving our people, our health, aside. Yesterday, along with our Batman municipality, our municipalities, Ergani, Silvan, lice, bow, Gökçebağ, Halfeli and Güroymak, were seized by the AKP, our 40 municipalities today. Our co-chairs have been taken into custody, arrested. You know as well as I do that everything that's being judged is a slander, a lie, and a conspiracy. If there had been a neutral, independent trial, those who had filed these indictments and sent a general order to take our municipalities would have been tried today, because these are the ones who committed the crime, the ones who took the will of our people. You may want to reverse the truth with perception operations, but our people know very well that our municipalities have shown rare examples of democratic, transparent public municipalism in this geography, and they continue to show it; that's one of the reasons for intolerance. Dear friends, when the outbreak started, our Batman City Hall, which you took yesterday -- our Deputy President of the Group -- actually counted what he was doing -- was at the head of the municipalities that said he would not take the water money for the people of Batman. But what did you do? You have punished the people of Batman, you have seized their will, because you do not see this people worthy of service, and that is the name of this trustee. Dear friends, you seek to plunder the people's resources in this time of the plague, and give up your sense of looters as soon as possible. Look, for days, you've been in the language of social solidarity, the union, the union, and you've put these concepts in your language, but what have you done in such a situation? You've taken away our municipalities. So you don't see Kurds as part of this community. For him, the AKP is a separatist, a deterrent, and the AKP is a Kurdish enemy; clearly and clearly, that's the name of this policy. But no one will shut up or bow down to your policies; we will fight you, we will fight you, we will fight you, we will fight you inside, we will fight you, we will fight you wherever we breathe. Look, thousands of our friends are being held hostage by you in prison today because they own their will. So you won't see a people, a HDP reality, who will shut up in the face of your lawlessness, your arbitrary practices. We're not going to go and wait behind the doors in Russia, and we're not going to let you come back and gloat over us, and you're not going to roar at us. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) We will raise our fight against him and against you and your understanding. Dear friends, look, we have a suggestion for you. It's like you guys have really had a hate agenda for 18 years, and you've done a lot of bad things to this community, and summer isn't over. Look, everybody sees the color as a mile. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My final word, Mayor.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0051par0269	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0050par0270	Come, you too, start a generation after the corona, have a change, stop taking the people's will, respect the right to choose and choose Kurds, and you owe this community an apology, so stop doing this evil thing as soon as possible. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0052par0273	Mr. President, I have a brief request for my position.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0053par0274	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0052par0277	Mr. President, esteemed MPs, we can never have a hate agenda. We don't accept criticism here for our citizens as if we're acting on such a instinct, such a motivation. Each political party will make its own criticisms, but we don't hate our society, but we love it, we think about walking with them, and since we can, the support of our nation is still behind us in the most powerful way. I'd like that to be known by the Parliamentary General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0053par0279	Ms. Semiha, come in.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0054par0281	Thank you, my precious President. I'll always hold Hakk even if he's the Grim Reaper. Even death is good in holy cases. It is the 11th anniversary of Mohsin Yazıoğlu's arrival in eternity. İsmail Sun, the journalist who walked with our Muhsin President, Erhan Azüzdağ, Vice President Murat Cetinkaya, Yüksel Yancı and pilot Kaya Wanttepe, also God's mercy and condolences to their families. I also ask you again to have mercy on Corporal Ramazan Naiyer, who was a martyr in Idlib, on March 19th. I'd like to share with you here a promise that our martyr father said after he buried his son that day. Our father, Hüseyin: If I had a thousand children, a thousand children would be sacrificed for this country. And our mother, the martyr, asked me to tell you that the hill of martyrs will never be empty, and I have children who will grow up from behind. I kiss here at the hands of all our martyr mothers and fathers, especially our Uncle Hussein and our Fadime sister. Sultan, stay in the house, Sivas. We work for you here. I say, I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0055par0290	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Adıyaman MP Abdurrahman Tutdere. Here you go, Mr. Tutdere.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0056par0293	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Of course, Turkey has recently been locked in a war with the pandemic of coronavirus, while we have faced the illegal practices of power. As far as we've seen from the media and from the press, the mayors elected by the public's will in the March 31st elections -- some mayors, particularly the mayor of Batman Central Mayor -- were removed from their posts by the Ministry of Interior; they were replaced by trustees, governors. Dear MPs, according to our Constitution, the Republic of Turkey is a state of law. Again, according to Article 127 of our Constitution, municipalities -- particularly I want to attract the attention of the General Assembly -- are public legal figures chosen by voters. See, this is a very important place: by the voters, your trustee practice has made the municipalities a legal person, chosen by the trustees; it has no place in law and democracy. Dear MPs, the fundamental principles of democracy are the state of law, the sovereignty of the people. Now, this process of trustees, trustee politics, has recently been an ordinary situation by the power. You all remember very well, what was done during the state of emergency, under the Act No. 674, with an addition to Article 45 of the City Code? Due to terrorist crimes, an exceptional arrangement has been brought into place for aiding and abetting crimes, and with this exceptional arrangement, the dismissal of mayors has been created to replace them. However, recently this exceptional practice has become fundamental, and there are almost no municipalities left in the East, in the Southeast. The Ministry of Interior, at work, is discussing practices related to our municipality of Ceyhan, the municipality of Yalova. And it certainly has nothing to do with the law, especially recently, when these mayors are suspended. Everyone here needs to know that power, especially in the polls, is trying to bring down municipalities that it can't beat, which it can't knock down in the polls, using the power of power, through trustees' politics. It certainly does the most harm to democracy. The needs of a democratic state and the policy of trustees are certainly not compatible.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0057par0298	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0056par0299	I especially address the ruling lawmakers: democracy's most fundamental principle is that of an unconditional nation. The practice of trustees undermines the sovereignty of the people, eliminates the sovereignty of the people. If these practices continue, our democracy, our democratic climate will suffer. So we're calling from here, from the nation's bench: Stop the antidemocratic practices. The Constitution and law also limit power, not giving you the authority to perform arbitrary practices. I'm telling you to give up these wrong practices. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0058par0303	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, I give my word to Adıyaman MP İbrahim Halil Fırat. Here you are, Mr. Firat.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0059par0306	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. Honourable MPs, terrorism is a crime of humanity. One way or another, he's a partner in this crime that either supports terrorism or remains silent in the face of terrorism. Our country has been fighting terror for 40 years. We must not allow the municipalities to become institutions that fund terrorism.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0060par0308	Who? Which municipality? Tell me your name. The AKP municipality?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0059par0309	Of course, mayors who have failed to distance themselves from terrorism, terror organizations, unlawfulness at a time when our country needs unity, unity, brotherhood most. The election must go with the election, but our citizens do not choose mayors to use the resources of the state to take the resources of the state elsewhere.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0060par0310	Prove it! Prove it! Don't talk like that, prove it!
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0059par0311	Being elected would never justify working as a branch of the terrorist organization and betraying our beloved homeland.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0060par0312	Where's it written? What time of trustee? Which Court report? Court reports are full of your corruption.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0059par0313	It's our most basic human duty to stop terrorism, to protect the right of the oppressed.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0060par0314	It's embarrassing.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0059par0315	City halls are service-making centers. City halls have the means to serve citizens.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0060par0316	Only Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) people are served with the resources of the municipality; the AKP is plundered, the trustee is plundered, the trustee.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0059par0317	The municipalities should be remembered not with terrorism, but with their projects, with their services.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0060par0318	The trustee is looting. And you're talking shamelessly!
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0059par0319	With all their time and resources, the mayors must focus directly on solving the city's problems and the public's problems.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0060par0320	In fact, the Court reports are full of trustee corruption.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0059par0321	No one can turn the will out of the chest into terror. You're gonna break the law, you're gonna break the law, then you're gonna talk about democracy, you're gonna talk about the will of the nation.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0061par0324	No one chews but you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0062par0325	You are the ones who break the Ark and you are the ones who break the law.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0059par0326	I'm sorry, no state would agree to that.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0062par0327	What's up, guys? What happened to the people, they made your municipalities go after you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0059par0328	It shouldn't upset anyone that the mayors who turned the municipalities into the logistics base of the terrorist organization have been dismissed.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0062par0329	What happened to the lot where you sell parcels?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0059par0330	If we believe in the law, we have to respect these procedures in accordance with the law and the law.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0062par0331	All the brothers of the city camped in your municipality. What happened?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0059par0332	Our nation expects unity, unity, service. We carry people's trusts on our backs. A democratic state must ensure the safety of its citizens. We can't ignore this cry.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0062par0333	People have re-elected. He didn't choose the trustee, people, he chose the mayor.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0063par0334	You've made camp.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0059par0335	We will always take legitimate steps to protect people's rights, to protect their law, to eliminate threats to democracy.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0062par0336	He didn't choose the trustee, he didn't choose the trustee; he didn't choose the candidate.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0064par0337	Listen, listen, listen!
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0059par0338	In the group proposal, he makes his administration concrete, his view of Kurds. We do not participate in the statement.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0062par0339	You will respect the will of the people! You will respect the will of the people! You will respect the will of the people!
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0059par0340	There is no problem with Kurds, the problem is a total terror problem. As a Kurd, I believe it's not a Kurdish problem. I don't know if this is a terrorist problem...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0062par0341	You'll learn, you'll learn! You will learn to respect Kurdish will!
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0059par0342	We serve our beloved nation, 83 million people -- 780,000 square kilometers.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0062par0344	You will respect the will of the Kurdish people, you will respect the will of the Kurdish people!
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0059par0345	If the city has anything to do with terrorism, it has to stop.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0062par0346	You will respect the will of the Kurdish people.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0059par0347	Thank you. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0062par0350	Who's the terror?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0065par0351	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0066par0352	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I don't think it's right for you to interfere when you're speaking or speaking. Mr. Group, your Vice President has a voice request.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0062par0353	He's slandering you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0066par0354	Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0067par0357	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, you know, at a time like this, when you're dealing with the corona virus, and when you're taking this kind of step, it's going to be a little bit embarrassing, like a trustee's appointment, and it's waiting for the speakers of this power to talk a little bit about it, but really, it's like, really, it's a lie, it's a lie, it's all a lie, it's a lie, it's a lie, it's a lie! We've told it here, we've told it once again every time a trustee is assigned, and we'll tell it to each and every one of you until we die. Look, I'll tell you this: we don't have a single municipality that's been punished for transferring resources to terror, but we don't have a single co-mayor who's been punished for transferring resources to terrorism.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0068par0361	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0067par0362	We don't have a single mayor who's been punished for this. There is no such report on a single mayor. You're lying to me! You deceive the people, you deceive the people. How can you tell yourself these lies? Aren't you a little bored? Look, you're saying, yes, we're very clear -- you're taking the will of the Kurdish people. You're breaking chest law, you're violating chest justice, you're violating election law.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0069par0363	You're lying!
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0067par0364	If you are using a phrase called "stealing the will out of the chest," you will look at it. You're going to look at the people you've co-operated with for 12 years, looking at the terror you've placed on all levels of this state for 12 years. You did this. You led the will out of the chest into terror.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0070par0367	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0067par0368	Sir, I have one last sentence, may I say it?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0070par0369	Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0067par0370	Thank you, Mr. President. Finally, I want to say this: Yes, we will continue to discuss this illegality, and we especially perceive it as creating a threat to the Kurdish people about the corona virus, directly, to the Kurdish people's hostility and attitude towards Kurdish municipalities, which the Kurdish people chose at this time. We'll keep saying that.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0071par0372	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0067par0373	Look, I told you here today, I told you about these municipalities' work on the corona virus, and you're blocking it. So it's also causing the public to be threatened by the corona virus. Let's just say that.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0072par0374	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0073par0376	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're not here to discuss our ideas in order to get them to agree to any party. Here, each party gives its ideas to the citizens, tells the public; the public evaluates the opinion, the opinion of each party, and when the day comes, it states its opinion at the beginning of the polls.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0074par0377	Well, he did, you don't know him! The public has given their opinion.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0073par0378	Our ideas... You're lying. We don't accept his statement once. You tell your opinion, our friends tell their opinion. The second issue is that the fight against the subject... of course, we have run out of feathers in our language on this matter. Look, this country is also fighting ا, it's fighting the PKK terror organization, it's fighting the DEAS, it's fighting the DHKP-C, and it's our party that's fighting the hardest with the DHKP-C, and it's our party, and I want it to be known.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0074par0380	Are you fighting against will?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0075par0382	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0073par0383	The other issue is that there are 81 provinces in our country and in all of these provinces, our citizens of all ethnic origins live. People of other ethnic backgrounds also live in the southeast. Only the Kurds voted for those who took office there. It means that you are hostile to Kurds, or just to say that they are the people of Kurdish descent in the region." I mean, look at his party's name -- the people's democracy -- and I'd like to point out that we also object to the fact that a party using the plural expression of the people fell into such a duality. There are Turks in that region, there are Arabs who live, there are Zazas who live, we have other ethnic citizens who are all the same to us.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0074par0384	Why are you dismissing HDP people?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0073par0385	HDP also calls it the People's Party, not just the Kurdish party. Because he called it the People's Party... Other Kurds live in Turkey; Arabs live, many other ethnic citizens live, and I wanted to point out.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0076par0387	Here you go, Mush.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0073par0388	I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0077par0389	That's not the argument.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0078par0390	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0079par0391	Mr. Oluç, there's nothing in this statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0078par0394	Yes, thank you. I'm just gonna say, Mr. Mush really made a point by saying the name of our party. Yes, that's right, the HDP says that all different identities, cultures, native languages, beliefs living in Peoples' Democratic Party, Turkey, are a party, and they develop policies in this regard. That's right, the Arabs live in that area, the Turks live, the Zazas live, the Ezids live; you're right about that, you say that, but we point out that these voters in places where you appoint trustees -- if any research is done -- are a large majority of them -- 80 percent, 90 percent of them are Kurds. So while we're stressing this, we're pointing to this reality, or we're not ignoring the rights of other peoples in any way, not because we don't see them. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0080par0397	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like your word.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0081par0398	Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0080par0400	When I look at the statements of the two Deputy Directors, I see them meeting in a serious rhetorical unit. Whatever its ethnic origins in Turkey, regardless of its religious heritage, we call all of our people who live on this land the Turkish nation. If you begin to separate these from their ethnic origins, you can't get the end of this, and you'll support the terrorists' claims, perhaps not willingly. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0081par0406	I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0082par0407	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0081par0408	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0082par0411	Thank you, Mr. President. The argument, of course, is that the trustee issue is a separate bet; it's controversial, they express their opinion. But to discriminate against 83 million Turkish citizens according to their ethnic origins and to make a statement on this issue is pure racism or a policy based on ethnicity. This, of course, is not the right approach; it is not true, but it represents a serious error. So we need to see 83 million of our people, our citizens, their thoughts, their ethnic heritage, whatever their faith is.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0081par0414	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0082par0415	Otherwise, it means discrimination. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0081par0417	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0083par0418	I'd like to say a sentence.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0081par0419	Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0083par0421	I mean, I don't mean to be polymic about it, so don't get me wrong. But I understand the sensitivity of the last two Group Vice Presidents, but we would expect them to show the same sensitivity in terms of democratic politics when they appoint trustees. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0081par0423	Dear lawmakers, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and processed and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/2477) I respectfully submit that my original Law Proposal, under Article 37 of the Civil Code, should be brought up directly. Aydın MP Süleyman Bülbül, who has an offer on the motion, will speak. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0084par0435	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I stand before you today in December to propose the amendment of Law No. 6284 to any violence against women. The law proposal was given to the Ministry of Labor and Social Services, tasked with taking preventive and protective measures in any violence against women, children and family members, to ensure that the plaintiff's approval and notification was received during law enforcement and investigation. Under Article 41 of the Constitution, the state's obligation is to take constitutionally preventive measures, rather than simply following cases of violence and abuse that have come to prosecution. Therefore, cases reflected in the state's first contact points of law enforcement and prosecutor's office must be reported to the Ministry immediately. In this way, the ministry will be able to protect the victim from any potential threats he may face during the ongoing process. Of course, in the past two months, not just in our country, but in the world, a lot has changed. Thousands of people have died because of the Covid-19 virus, thousands of people are being infected and treated. This epidemic we're experiencing is so big that it's not only affecting our respiratory pathways anymore, it's not increasing our temperature, we're also being socially damaged. Violence against women and children is increasing in homes closed by the epidemic. I mean, even though time has passed, women and children are also victims of the crisis. Precious MPs, based on the data of violence against the woman in 2019, about 52 percent of women's murders were committed inside the house. This makes it inevitable that there will be more chance of male violence in women's homes where they have to stay. According to World Health Organization data, one of three women suffer physical and sexual abuse. In times of crisis, such as natural disasters, wars, and epidemics, the risk of gender - based violence increases. United Nations officials also say that staying away from social life at this time offers opportunities to inflict more violence on those who practice violence. China, the point of origin of the virus, stated that domestic violence reported to local police agencies in February has endured 3 ▪. Women in the United States who are looking for the national domestic abuse line say they have similar problems. In short, women and children have become more open to violence while trying to protect themselves from the virus. NGOs and associations have been doing field studies that the government has not done for the woman in any way. Now, NGO and association work have been postponed under health measures. That's why violence can become more invisible. The law enforcement force must act quickly and quickly to report any violence these days when the courthouses are not fully-timed and efficient, and should be reported to the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services. On this occasion, this bill must be accepted. It is also important to remind that women should call the Ministry's Alo 183 or Family Violence Emergency Helpline in any case of violence. In addition to public health, we need to prioritize security. And don't forget the burden of domestic work and maintenance on women, the inequality they're experiencing. If we say stay home, we should also say that the egalitarian work department should be required. We must strive to divide domestic affairs and care burdens equally. Dear friends, speaking of public health, I'd like to mention something very important. I bow to our health workers who look at hundreds of citizens every day, but it's 21 o'clock every night. The act of support, which was made at 00, and is truly precious, must now become an act of protest, because we have begun treating our doctors, our health workers. The need for gloves, masks, glasses, clothes, which are vital to their ability to do their work, unfortunately, is not fully satisfied. We have to object to that. Mr. Health Minister Fahrettin Husband must take steps to improve these unsecured working conditions immediately. It is imperative that health workers with possible contact, especially in triage, Covid-19 clinics, services, and intensive care, should plan places where they can stay and stay off-duty without going home. All health workers who are thought to have been infected should be given a proper diagnostic test, and these employees should be monitored closely. The working hours of health workers must be regulated with urgency; the appointment of tens of thousands of non-assigned health workers must be made because the health care of our health workers who are struggling with this epidemic must be a priority despite any difficulty and lack of equipment. I wish and thank you for accepting the offer of the law by the High Council.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0085par0446	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda with the proposals of the Law and other tasks from the Commissions. We will begin negotiations with Denizli MP Nilgün Ök and 46 MPs in the Plan and Budget Commission Report, which are ranked in the 1st place. Commission? He's in position. In the 70th Amendment, dated 18/3/2020, the votes were completed in the first chapter of the Law Proposal 196, which was considered to be the main law under Article 91. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second chapter covers 21 to 40 ▪ Articles. The first word on the second chapter belongs to Mr. Zeki Hakan Sıdallı, MP of Mersin on behalf of the GOOD PARTY Group. Here you go, Mr. Sadalı.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0086par0459	Mr. President, in the last statement of the Minister of Health, we have learned that 1.529 of our citizens have been infected and 37 of our citizens have lost their lives. I pray to our citizens who are now being treated in our hospitals for immediate healing and God's mercy on our dying citizens. Covid-19 rapid diagnostic kits, which reached our country yesterday in 15 minutes, need to be implemented much faster in people who are suspected of coronavirus, and we shouldn't be late. In addition, increasing reference labs to apply for if tests tested positive with these kits will make rapid diagnosis even more functional. As long as the diagnosis is slow, you can't identify infected people or prevent new people from getting infected. In such matters, it is not enough to be sincere, transparent, and well-intentioned, but also to be able to manage the process and to achieve results. Release these centers to all Turkey immediately. Congressmans, another effect the coronavirus has on humans is economic. The damage the plague has done to the world's economy is over $3 trillion, and it looks like the damage will continue to increase. The situation in Turkey is no different; we were already in a serious crisis, as a result of this global threat, the crisis in our country is getting deeper and deeper. First of all, what we need to do is develop concrete moves to manage scarce resources better and more in need and to get through the process with minimal damage. The most basic duty of the state is that its people live a healthy life in prosperity and peace. In the process, industrialists, SMEs, and citizens need to live in a way that is as safe and unconcerned in economic matters as it is in health. We all see that the worldwide economic pandemic of the virus poses a serious threat to our country. The measures against these threats are not enough. Members of parliament demand that our citizens isolate themselves socially, and we call them stay in the house. Yes, it's a necessary precaution. Who doesn't want to wait at home safely and peacefully for the plague to pass? Most of our citizens are safe at home now, but they're restless. Like all governments fighting the threat of the plague, you have taken economic measures. There are some points in your package of economic measures that we find positive, which unfortunately does not help our nation. The package produced encouragement to the big bosses and supporters, disappointment to the farmer, the worker and the unemployed, and cologne and masks to the pensioner, only to Ankara and Istanbul. The package clearly shows that the financial burden of the crisis will be weighed heavily on the backs of the SME and employees. You're saying you're going to delay paying public obligations for three months, and even that's a product of your strategy to save the day. How will our SMEs, who are currently unable to open their doors and can't do business, pay this debt in three months' time? I would like to present here the proposal for a solution by our President, Mr. Coral Akşener. Give our COBI's public loads a year-by-year instalment, so that our tradesman can breathe a little bit, and your substance can recover a little. Unfortunately, there is no room for those in need again in this announced economic package. The fact that only $2 billion of the $100 billion supply package is reserved for those in need suggests that you are far from social government. These days, no one in France will go bankrupt, and no one will be worried about money, the state says. Germany makes the state's presence at the same minimum clear in the citizens' economy. In America, American youths who are trapped in their homes due to the outbreak of the virus are told to pay a thousand dollars a month in digital money to adults. What about us? Everyone here is afraid that he won't find his job and his job. If you hadn't listened to us and wasted our hard-earned money, I mean, if you hadn't touched your discretion, you could have made a citizen feel the state's presence today. You don't save on dignity, you say. But you're waiting for the hard days to come by, playing like a cicada. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we say to our citizens, "Sit in the house, don't go out." What about their debts? We have hundreds of thousands of citizens on pro bono leave, working on a salary, on a sales bonus; they have no income this month, how are they going to make a living? Therefore, at least electricity, water, natural gas, telephones and internet bills must be postponed. Moreover, it is a relief for our citizens to have the tax burden of such services delayed for a year. Again, 80 thousand of our teachers, who work as paid teachers in public schools, have suffered a great deal of loss here. It is unacceptable for private sector employees to allow such a victimization zone while waiting for their wages to be paid uninterrupted so as not to be victimized. The victims of our paid teachers must be removed immediately. Besides, even under normal circumstances, it's impossible for our college graduates to be able to pay their debts right now. Postpone KYK payments immediately for three months and then restructure. While we were waiting for you to take under the Economic Stability Shield our workers, our pensioners, our unemployed, you chose to buy contractors and relatives again. While we were waiting for you to download the value-appropriate tax on basic needs, you chose to download it from the planes, we didn't understand. We're going to get through this crisis together, we're going to get out of the epidemic as healthy as we can; no one will be left unemployed, no business will be closed; don't worry, we'll delay the debt bills; we'll create a source, so that you don't have a problem, we'll create a source; you can stay in your homes comfortably; it's our job to protect your health, your economy, and your future. The state is waiting for the state's mind, the state's survival. But the shield you've declared is not even capable of protecting the citizen, let alone protecting his ally. Make the right move for once. Free our economy, which has been blocked for years, from the grip of this disease, which has collapsed in its lungs with corona. Or your wrong choices will sink us all, and if the ship sinks, not only will those who voted for us, but those who voted for you will drown. Members of lawmakers, anonymous heroes struggling with their lives in the first place in the fight against the epidemic, unfortunately our health workers are forced to continue this struggle without the necessary equipment. You refuse, but those who can't reach you write to us. This gap is being expressed from all over Turkey. In fact, our Minister of Health mentioned this in his press release yesterday, ▪ Small examples are being deliberately raised. He said, and added to the continuation of his speech: "There are people in health care who are positive for the coronavirus test. " The Minister debunked his own thesis with his own speech. When we're struggling with the virus, when we've got medical personnel who've been infected with equipment, does that mean that there's a big, small part of it? There's got to be a more serious approach. We call it, it doesn't work. There are exceptions to that, folks. ▪ Every health worker's life is important to us. Every neglect creates a chain of risks. You say, "Well, isn't that neglect considered a chain of risk?" The longer you go on like this, the more you break the chain of infection, the more you add new rings to the chain. This deficiency creates a great weakness in the fight against the epidemic, which poses great risks both to our health and to their families. This critical situation must be dealt with at once, and the equipment shortages of our medical staff in all our hospitals must be completed immediately.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0087par0470	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0086par0471	The most vital and effective measure of this difficult time is not to leave the house. With this consciousness, I also pay my respects to all our citizens, saying, "Stay home, stay well." Never despair, Turkey will be fine. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0087par0474	Mr. Enginyurt...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0088par0477	Mr. President, the world is in grave danger because of the corona virus. Turkey is struggling very successfully with all its ministers, especially our President. Stay at home. We try to keep our citizens from staying at home and prevent the spread of the virus. But our workers, working in over 10 million private sectors, are in danger of coronavirus every day from textiles to construction, agriculture to industrial sites. The private sector should also be allowed and private sector employees, construction workers, textile workers should be allowed to stay at home, he says, thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0087par0481	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Esin Kara. Here you go, Mr. Kara.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0089par0484	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our National Party of Action on the second chapter of Law Proposal 196. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. During this difficult time in our country, I would like to express my thanks to our Minister of State, Berat Collarrak, who has delayed the declarations by hearing the voice of our colleagues who have filed millions of bills from all over Turkey and who have been exposed to the threat of the virus. I wish for a great reason to include the income tax and the tax on the industry, rather than the taxpayers of institutional taxes. It is also a question of how free accountants who are over 65 years of age and suffering from chronic illness will give their declarations to the taxpayers who are unable to use them for any particular reason. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the proposal we've been discussing has made technical arrangements for many areas. Some of these include providing minimum wage support for employers for 75 euro a month, the ability to conduct accession operations in an electronic environment, the ability to provide age-perpetuation allowance for those who continue to work from duty and war disability, the establishment of deterrents in financial crimes and illegal betting, the prevention of abuses in paying the rents of charities, the preferability to use of renewable energy to consumers in natural disasters by up to a year. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important problems facing the world is the growing demand for energy. Energy has been and continues to be one of the factors that has defined the socioeconomic and political power of countries for centuries. About 80 percent of the energy still available in the world consists of fossil fuels such as oil, natural gas, and coal. However, the trend to renewable energy resources is increasing in our country as it is in the world. To minimize external dependency and ensure energy supply and security, to increase efficiency in energy and the share of national resources, and to ensure that energy is environmental and human friends should be the basis of our national energy policy. For this, as we say in our electoral declaration, the expansion of renewable energy and the increase of its share in energy production must be provided as a proper basis for the investment of domestic and foreign private capital in the energy sector, along with public energy investments. As of the end of 2019, 62 per cent of electricity production in our country is covered by local and renewable sources, 48.7 per cent of installed power from renewable energy sources. Thus, Turkey is ranked sixth in Europe with the power of the renewable energy board and 13th in the world. The law proposal aims to create a large-scale Renewable Energy Resource Area (YEKA) in our country, aimed at efficient and efficient use of energy sources. The collection of disorganized legislation on renewable energy sources is envisioned in places declared YEKA, the start of publicisation operations over three years, and the tenders will be made in Turkish liras rather than based on foreign currency prices as part of YEKA competitions. In addition, the law offer allows us to consume electricity produced only from renewable sources of energy, such as sun and wind. The National Movement Party sees the need to implement effective incentives for the production of electricity to assess more wind, solar and geothermal resources, and we believe that a Turkey that has minimized energy dependency will be one of the key actors in the international energy market. Dear lawmakers, veteranism is a sign of virtue and sacrifice. The Turkish nation is a veteran nation. Of course, we owe loyalty to our martyrs and veterans both to the heart and to the soul. As we say in our election statement, we view it as a necessity for everyone to act with sensitivity and to take responsibility for the solution of our veterans' current problems. We believe that the way to keep the government alive is to keep the people alive, that their country's value will increase with the value it gives people, and that in order to look to the future with confidence, the martyr relatives, veterans, pensioners, and elderly must be provided with an honorable life. The proposal provides improvements to some of our veterans' pending problems. In this scope, it is possible for our veterans who receive duty and disability pensions to continue to work on the basis of services passed after their disability allowance date, to be granted an age-old pension, provided they have paid at least 20 years of insurance and a 5,000-day premium. In addition, the damage to a small number of gasses that have been cut off from the monthly period depends on the procedure. However, we find it necessary for all of our veterans to be paid the same amount, whether the honorary salary paid to combat veterans or not, to be paid the same amount of money, to be given employment for all of our martyr orphans, to give our veterans ovv/free vehicles, to be relieved of the victims of non-injured veterans, and to be taken into consideration for the other legitimate demands of our veterans. Dear lawmakers, with the proposal of the law we have discussed, there is an amendment to the Association's Law on electronically keeping all kinds of records kept in physical environment by the associations and authorities. Civil society organizations and associations are certainly the essentials of our democracy. As a matter of fact, the right to establish an association held in Article 33 of our Constitution depends on that people do not suffer from the abuse of this right. The arrangement makes it possible for individual freedoms and democracies to be carried out on a transparent and voluntary basis based on the will of individuals to conduct accession to organisations. The other issue is related to the General Directorate of the Foundations and the long-term rentals of the institutes. The sentence allows tenants who do not pay their rent for three months during the period of the contract to be released if they do not pay the full rent in 30 days. In this way, it is intended to ensure the continuity of the foundations' rent revenues and foundation services. The discovery of all foundation monuments, supported by the government, and protected by the purpose of existence, will undoubtedly be necessary to maintain and preserve the trusts of our ancestors. Dear lawmakers, an important issue that is arranged by the law proposal is minimum wage support for employers. Under the change, minimum wage allowance of 75 euro per month is provided to employers who provide the necessary conditions within 2020, without a division of sectors per worker. About 7 million insured people are expected to receive the support of our employers, which will be implemented to reduce the cost of labour and increase employment. Our election statement stressed the increased production and employment by taking into account the minimum income standard, a balanced protection of labour and employer's rights in working life, a structural measures that will accelerate growth in the medium and long term, and boost employment. In this framework, we assess that the continuation of minimum wage support is important and useful for production and employment. However, we also find it necessary not to be taxed on minimum wage and to be taxed out of the minimum wage of those who are paid. We are determined to bring our country and nation to safety by opening up bright horizons to Turkey. We believe that by providing economic growth, social development and national integration with the presidential government system, Turkey will become the leading country, and Turkey will move into the future. With these thoughts, I ask that the proposal of the law bring good results to our country and our nation, and I salute our Veteran Assembly and the great Turkish nation watching us at the beginning of its screens.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0090par0500	On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Diyarbakır MP Garo Paylan... Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0091par0503	Dear friends, I salute you all. Dear friends, the whole world is unfortunately under the outbreak of coronavirus and we're losing people every day. In these conditions, all democratic parliaments talk about it, friends; they form commissions; they discuss all the measures that need to be taken immediately, all the parties at once. Look, folks, the pandemic of the coronavirus has surrounded the world, and this Parliament has not taken a single task, but has not been able to set up a single commission. We couldn't discuss one thing about health and economic crisis measures together. What are we doing now: a package of decrees from the palace called the Economic Stabilisation Shield, which we will not publish to the existing bag of legislation, if we allow it today. What we need to do is to take all the measures in common with common sense, but unfortunately, the palace decrees, and this House is authorized only by sealing. We deny it, we must reject it together. Dear friends, of course there's a health epidemic, there's a coronavirus epidemic, but there's an epidemic of economic crisis, and it's all around the world. The world's economy is falling and businesses are shutting down. In these conditions, all the world's parliaments say: "Go stay in the house. " But when they say stay in the house, parliaments do this: they guarantee the work, the vaccine of every citizen in the house, they delay their bills, the bank delays their debts, and guarantees the basic vital needs of the citizen staying home. Is our Parliament talking about this right now? No. Dear friends, stay home. We are not equal in the call. Who can stay home? Rich people can stay home. Who can't stay home? The poor can't stay home. What are they doing? They buy groceries for rich people with couriers. You order online, the poor make your packages in those crowded environments, bring them home; they work at gas stations, they fill up your car's tank. Dear friends, do we have a measure for people who work in markets in this sense? No, we're just looking at the rich with an understanding. In that sense, we're no match for the pandemic of the coronavirus, my friends. Look, what's in the package of economic Stability Shield that the groom brought in, fellas? It's a 100 billion-dollar package, 98 billion going to capital, going to 1%. What's 99%? A two-billion-dollar package will only be given to two million families. Dear friends, will we accept this package? What's with the poor, fellas? There's a package that only contains cologne for people over 65, and that's in Istanbul and Ankara. Are we going to accept that? Here, today, we'll look for an answer. Dear friends, everyone wants to stay at home, but this Parliament must ensure the basic vital needs of those who remain at home. If we are a conscientious Parliament, stay at home. We must also secure all vital needs of our fellow citizens. Do you have these in this package? No, I don't, guys. Look, what we're proposing is that all activity be stopped, my friends, except for the factories that produce the basic vital needs, food, electricity, health supplies, cleaning materials, energy, so the factories that produce the basic vital products and the tradesmen who sell them. Everyone should have the right to remain at home. In these sectors, such as food, electricity, cleaning materials, the pharmaceutical industry, the most radical measures for workers should be taken, the most radical measures to ensure their health, are these in this package? Look, there's an umbrella in this package. Who's that umbrella protecting? It protects 1%, my friends. 99 percent in this package, 99% in the cold. That's what we need to talk about. Dear friends, workers must be given paid leave in all sectors, except in sectors that produce basic vital needs. Currently, millions of workers have to live in their homes because businesses have either been shut down or without demand. What are the bosses doing? Friend, go home. I'm taking you on unpaid leave. Dear friends, stay in the house. Are we going to feed our citizens stones or stones? Look what England says: "Go sit in your house, your salary is my guarantee." America says: "I will send everyone a check for a thousand dollars each month. " What do we say? We'll give you cologne, we'll call it cologne. Is that the assurance this House will give its citizen? Dear friends, this burden must also be shared by the employer and the state. In that sense, look, the U.S. has announced a $2 trillion package, $2 trillion. Germany announced $800 billion in packages; we're in the same population, 800 billion dollars in social packages. What did we explain? What's a groom's brain pack? 14 billion euros, that's one in 45. One package has been announced, Mr. Son-in-law. Ninety-eight percent of them go to supporting capital. Is this the package we're going to explain? Look, we've announced a package today, my friends, that we've announced the HDP's package of economic security against the outbreak of coronavirus. Dear friends, stay at home. This is the package that guarantees the basic vital needs of all the citizens we call citizens. I'd like to present this package to you in that sense. Look, we've announced a 12-point chain of measures, and we say: 1) We say all rent payments must be frozen during the outbreak. 2) We say all loan payments to banks must be frozen. 3) We say electricity, water, natural gas, the Internet, telephone, should be provided free of charge for the duration of the epidemic to the limit of need. 4) We say layoffs must be banned, and all support for the merchants and the COBI must be conditioned on the condition that they do not lay off. 5) At all workplaces that have halted its operation, workers must be given paid leave and workers must be covered by the SGK and all taxes from the state budget. 6) We say that 50 per cent of the salary of paid workers should be covered by the employer and 50 per cent by the state budget. 7) All unemployed persons from the unemployment fund must be given unconditional income support. 8) We say that tradesmen who have stopped operating must be compensated and that during the outbreak, the tradesmen's rent and tax payments must be frozen. 9) We say farmers' support must be paid immediately. 10) We say that students should be cleared of their debts to the Credit Homes Association. 11) We say the minimum pension must be withdrawn to the minimum wage level for now at $2,400 a month. 12) The diary says that women who work on a home axis, who live alone, and who have to take care of their children should receive direct income support. Dear friends, here's the package that guarantees HDP's citizens, and on the one hand, the groom's brain guarantees only 1 percent. Here, a conscientious assembly must provide for all its citizens, when they say, "Stay in the house. " Dear friends, in a moment, you'll have the package, the supplemental needs. Look, what does it say about the decree from the palace? It says: "If the workers can't work, if they stay at home, we will give them compensation or partial work grants. " If he's worked for four hundred and fifty days in the last three years, we'll give it to him. Friends, I'll tell you, if there are 100 workers working in a workplace, that condition can only be provided by 20 workers, you know, at the most. So, you gave 20 workers a dime, what's 80 gonna do? Is he gonna eat rocks, guys? What we need to do is stay in the house without making this distinction. We need to make an arrangement that guarantees all the workers we call it, not to put them on the spot; we need to make a package that guarantees the poor, the unemployed, the workers, the workers who were sent home. Okay, guys, that's our problem. Citizen, you know, he's in trouble. There's solidarity all over the world, you know, in these conditions, solidarity? All political parties are talking about how to put that separation aside and secure a citizen by hand, aren't they? Look, we're trying very hard to contribute. So, what are the people doing in the palace while we're doing this, what's the Home Secretary doing? He's throwing trustees at our municipalities, guys. Eight other municipalities were appointed trustees yesterday. So if you love God, if you knew that there would be an apocalypse tomorrow, look, I mean, there's a pandemic of coronavirus, and if you knew that there was going to be an apocalypse tomorrow, you'd still throw trustees at the HDP municipality today, you know that? Can something like this happen in this environment? The citizen is dying, starving, trying to protect his life, and you're throwing trustees at our municipalities. What you're doing is unconscionable, and I don't want to use any more adjectives.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0092par0532	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0091par0533	What you're doing is unconscionable! In the days when we need solidarity, we're trying to secure both the lives and health of our citizens and their jobs and our municipalities and members of Parliament, what are you doing? You're being unconscionable to appoint trustees for our municipalities. I can't find another word for you, so either stop this execution or friends, the country is drifting into a great darkness. If we don't find a fundamental partnership of conscience, we'll have more disasters in the day of the coronavirus. The coronavirus we need to stop, of course we have to stop the virus. We have to stop the economic crisis virus, but we have to stop the trustee virus, guys, and the trustee virus.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0092par0535	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0093par0536	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. I wanted to promise him he'd get to the records. First of all, we don't agree with the speaker's speeches. We're one of the best countries to handle the Coronavirus process. Praise be to God, in our President's rule, our Minister of Health, the Science Board, is managing the process in the best way and informing the public in a transparent way, and the necessary measures are being taken. On the other hand, a package was announced in our president's rhetoric last week. This package is also an intervention in the process, which is explained to relieve the process. The process is dynamic. Yes, if there are setbacks, if there are economic measures to be taken, there will be reevaluation within consultation with the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Events related to the trustees have also been given the necessary response to the group's proposal. I present to the public knowledge, to the discretion of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0094par0540	Miss Oya, come in.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0095par0543	Now, we've been reading from the press that the release of prisoners in prisons due to the corona epidemic has been discussed in these days when women's killers were being released from sexual assault and child abuse. We, as women, find it unacceptable for female killers to be released into the community to kill another one of us or to let the perpetrators of sexual assault commit new crimes. When we are isolated in our homes to prevent outbreaks, the risks are already increasing for women already under domestic violence, what needs to be done is to endanger our safety by sending these criminals among us, not to punish sexual violence, but to effectively implement the preventive measures against women. While the bill has not been finalized and has not yet arrived at the Commission, we warn you. The child's sexual abuse...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0094par0548	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Bulent Kuşoglu will speak. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0096par0551	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I made a promise on the second chapter of the Law Proposal of 196. Our agenda is a matter of coronavirus, no matter how many different laws we're discussing. So far -- which was announced as of last night -- we have 37 casualties. I ask for God's mercy, my condolences to his relatives, my condolences to our nation, I ask for patience, I ask for strength. Dear friends, because of this Covid-19, it's unclear how much trouble we're going to have because of the corona. We don't know exactly how long this will last. We wish these troubles would be over as soon as possible. But it's our duty, of course, to wish for the best and wish for the best and prepare for the worst, together, we have to do it. We have to be ready for the worst-case scenario. It affects the whole world, and it's clear that our private life and our public life will change significantly as a result of the measures taken. There will be significant changes in the lives of governments and in individual life. There will also be changes in our business. These are a separate discussion, we need to discuss, we need to talk, but it seems that in the field of health care, agriculture, energy and education, the public will need to be followed by more weighted policies. Again, we're going to need to monitor policies that are more public weight in health, education, agriculture and energy, and we're going to need to develop some measures, and we need to know that. Because these areas are the areas that directly affect the health of the people, the citizens, and we need to see that. Now, we're discussing a bag of laws with very different subjects. I've talked about the whole thing, and you know there are 22 different laws. We're organizing 22 different laws. But it was a law proposal prepared before Turkey realized that the virus was so dangerous. It's been discussed on the committee. It's arrived. Now, we need to talk about these things in a very different way, because the areas that are affected by the virus are economics, health, everyday life, and there are a lot of issues about public space that we need to talk about here. We need to reassess this new development. There's a lot of stuff here. Which means we need to create a new discussion. Turkey represents the nation in the Grand National Assembly -- on its name -- MPs. There is no question that lawmakers do not oversee or discuss the measures taken. My dear friends, we have to sit down and discuss this. If we're public defenders, we have to discuss these issues, oversee them. There's no other way to explain this. It would be a big freak if lawmakers who swore on the independence of the state, the indivisible integrity of the country and the nation didn't evaluate these issues, discuss this extraordinary situation, review the measures taken -- repeat -- would be an anomaly, an anomaly. Look, it's possible to take two kinds of precautions against this virus, two measures at a different end. One, as we do now, is that as far as all countries are concerned, you're going to lock as many people in their homes as possible, you're not going to have contact with them, especially those infected with the virus, and that's going to be over in a while. How long will it take? It'll take at least three months, five months, we don't know, and as far as the World Health Organization is concerned, we'll make sure that not everyone is affected at the same time as possible, and we'll spread it as much as possible. According to the World Health Organization, as a result, everyone is expected to be affected by this virus, and on the other hand, he is, but it is said that in two months there will be much more success if it spreads not in three months, but in as much as one year as possible, so the capacity of health care will be sufficient. I understand that. And in this regard, the whole world is taking precautions by accepting this option, so it's trying to make sure that the world's health capacity is spread, depending on its health capacity in the countries. That's okay, that's what our country is trying to do. Now, Turkey is a country with a lot of jobs; according to official figures, we have close to 5 million unemployed. We know it's about 8 million, at least 8 million unemployed. Our debt is overcharged, our reserves are too tight, and our reserves are too low. We were caught in an economic crisis with this corona virus. So there's nothing abnormal about America, England, Germany taking the measure I just said. They're trying to isolate economic impacts, cultural impacts, social impacts, by pouring money into the system from outside, by printing money, by directly supporting businesses and citizens who have been damaged by the virus. They may have been particularly successful, but we, Turkey, already have problems because we've been caught in an economic crisis. It's not possible for us to inject money into the system, but it's very different here, because in America, Germany, there's a waste of money in the system, it's impossible for us to do so. Then we need to think, think, discuss these measures in a different way here. Of course it's possible for us to print money, but what's the scale? How long will it be possible for us to borrow from the outside? How long can we provide these opportunities for our citizens? We don't know if these matters need to be discussed, evaluated by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. If these measures are not taken, there will be a great deal of trouble in Turkey, but if these measures are taken, Turkey will face a great tribulation in case it remains three months and then longer. The problem we call the Beka problem will arise here, and we need to see it. These are not issues spoken properly in Turkey, I'm afraid, for some reason it's not spoken, but this is the place to talk about, the Great National Assembly of Turkey, the assembly of the nation, but these are not spoken of. We need to talk about this together, we need to discuss it. Dear friends, there are some very important issues in this second chapter. For example, it was the last item, it was the 20th article, and we raised the KGF (KGF) to 50, when 35 had previously been predicted. Now I ask: Why did we go up to 50? I don't know who to ask. Now there's no representative of the executive officer here. Our fellow bidder gave it to us as 35, and now it's gone up to 50. Why was it raised to 50, KGF? So in terms of supporting the tradesman, the Loan Guarantee Fund is being raised to 50. Why is it being removed? Will it be enough, won't it be enough, to whom? We don't know anything about any of this because there's no representative of the executive officer here. In an environment like this, look, we've been caught in an economic crisis, but we've also been caught in a political crisis. Over there, the representatives of this nation, the representatives of the nation, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't. If there's no minister here, who are we going to tell? If he has no political responsibility -- no political responsibility, no elected -- who are we going to tell, who are we going to argue with? Look, we're talking to ourselves. But it's also a political crisis, and we need to see this side of it. It really is. The other issue is Social Insurance Act 5510 and General Health Insurance Act, and there's a significant change in that.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0097par0560	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0096par0561	Thank you, Mr. President. Up until last year -- three years -- the incentive for a worker in the business for 150 lira per employee will now be applied at 75 lira. I looked, and it's changed. 75 lira is going to be very inadequate because 150 lira is not enough -- I'll tell you about it -- there's a surplus in the number of businesses that are closed down. In a situation like this -- there's a reduction in the number of employees -- 150 lira measures weren't enough, so we're lowering it to 75 lira. There's no way we can hope or hope that this will be enough. It is not possible for this House to do its duty, my dear friends, without discussing it, without discussing it. Of course, we don't discuss it in every way, like a normal law, and it's from the commission now. And there's no way we can get into the details here, because there's a different line of communication here, I'm afraid. There's no way we can get the facts out that way, but I suggest that we withdraw the offer and be sent back to the commission and re-opened. I hereby salute you all, and wish you the best of our nation.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0098par0567	The talks for the groups are complete. The first word on the second part of the proposal is from Gaziantep MP Ali Muhittin Taşdoğan. Here you go, Mr. Stoneborn.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0099par0571	Mr. President, members of parliament, Mr. State Gardener Beyin will form a philosophy, a literature, an idea floor, a social and political climate, and then a road map of the human race. It is a historical duty to be prepared now, to act with a will, to judge, and to do so. We would like to point out that it would be helpful to remind our entire nation of the value of the word. The world has never faced such a great and common threat in a long time, and has taken a common position in the face of any threat. Every nation, every state, is looking for almost identical ways to combat this epidemic. Unbeknownst to each other, nations who have been insensitive to the problems of neighbouring countries and closed their eyes are being tested by human and moral values. While different political and strategic views of countries continue to have different interests and perceptions of world affairs, the lost balance of politics is on the way to improving, and the closer inter-country cooperation and closeness is on the way to improving the balance of the virus that has entered their country. Once again, mankind will understand that the result of this plague is self - care. Because our glorious history is filled with the rarest and rarest examples of keeping a man alive, helping a neighbor. In the fight against mankind's plague, it is a valuable gain for countries to act on my co-authority and unity to understand that mankind has greater gains. With that dignity, I'd like to renew not the day of criticism, but the day of unity, the day of unity. Here we follow and advise the measures that our government feels necessary for our ministries to take, with the sense of responsibility for our services. Congressmans, we would like to reiterate the need for the implementation of the field hospital models that we can create in hospital gardens, where patients' triage and initial assessments will be made in order for hospital control, processing and business flow to continue in good health. So in order not to bring people suspected of this disease next to normal patients, you have to meet the patient at the hospital models in the hospital gardens and treat the patient here first, and if possible, consider the possibility of monitoring the isolation period in the tent hospitals. I'd like to point out that it's important to reduce or prevent the risk of exposure to normal clinic patients and sleeping patients. Congressmans, our patients and elders who are 65 years old and older are our elders, the witnesses of our recent history, the gray-haired people of our nation, our ancestors. Our elders are our most precious values, our values to bear above our heads. The restrictions imposed on the curfew are to protect them from the epidemic, to protect them, not hurt them, not to get sick, to ensure that they are important to them, otherwise it is necessary not to confuse them with the carelessness and irresponsibility of other Western practices. I also think it's necessary to emphasize the psychological dimension of the struggle. Therefore, we remind the members of our great nation who follow the call to stay home to Turkey, that learning and implementing methods of protection from the risk of coronavirus is the primary condition. Do not take any credit for the information presented by people or institutions whose resources are unknown or incompetent in their field. Do not focus too much on images, images, news, and discussions of the Coronavirus process; it may cause you to feel more threatened or threatened than you are, panic, and increased stress responses. Be careful to eat regularly and to eat healthy food. Try to get enough rest, exercise where you are, if possible. Emotional responses, such as stress, anxiety, anxiety, panic, depression, and so on, can be intense. Give yourself time to understand what's going on around you. Remember how we dealt with the hard times we've been through in the past. Take your time, spend time with your family. Share your feelings and thoughts with your loved ones via phone, email, social media or the Internet.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0100par0580	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0099par0581	The great Turkish nation, our President, State Bahçeli Bey, says: "He who endures the night is given the good news of a day." As for those who were patient, they were promised peace and blessings. And the sequel is to the extreme, and the sequel is to the end of the evil, and the outcome is to the good. Let's drive pessimism out of our neighborhood, keep pessimism out of our territory. Turkey will also break the siege of this virus. Allah is but a desire. Like Gaziantep, I salute our Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0101par0585	Mr. Lütfü Türkkan will speak for him in the second place. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0102par0588	Mr. President, we're dealing with a situation where we're under the law. The Coronavirus changed our whole agenda, changed our lives, changed our priorities. And maybe we all started to question life again, so we realized a lot of things in this life that we'd forgotten, that we hadn't noticed. So, you see, the first thing that matters in all people's lives is that the first thing that we do in our house is we don't want our children to starve, we don't have any heating problems while they're living, you know, if there's medicine, we've reduced all our needs for our lives. Maybe this is real life. Nature taught us a lesson, warning us that there is a side to the life you run so hard in. I want to talk about something else here: Turkey is not a country that produces what it consumes, but in the first place in food. So, at first, what we need is flour; we import a very important portion of flour's raw material. We produce one third of what we consume, and we import two thirds of what we consume. It's not that there's no money left in this treasure, it's that you borrowed money, you found money from the IMF, but because of this epidemic, now most of the port workers in the world don't work, so ships don't load. The major ports in the world don't have loads, so you'll import them, you've got money, but you don't have any logistics to import from that country. Another thing, Russia decided yesterday that all food products were banned from exports. Tomorrow, if other countries make similar decisions, and this epidemic lasts a month, two months, three months, not a year, then at the end of a year, people will struggle with hunger in Turkey. It's not a long shot. I mean, I don't want to paint a pessimistic picture, but there's always a danger. For this reason, what measures are being taken in the country, not only to fight the disease, but also to ensure that those who survive it can survive? If any measures have been taken to resolve these issues, any studies have been made; no one has informed the public about them. So, thank you, our Minister of Health is coming out in the evenings, giving us the news of that day's death, giving us the news of the case, but other than that, no one in the government is giving the public the slightest bit of information about these issues, such as the leaders of other countries do, as the ministers and bureaucrats do with the leaders of other countries. I'm betting that no ships come to this country for three months, three months, and... you remember -- my generation knows -- they had oil tails for you, so they couldn't find oil for you because there was no exchange, and the country couldn't import oil for you, and now, even if you had foreign currency, it would be the same thing. Then our population was 50 million, now 82-83 million. And there's another thing: we're out of money, I'm looking at the other speaker friends, and they're talking about a lot of precautions here, and they're all missing something that needs to be done; the Turkish treasure spent the money. So I say to Mr. Justice and Development Party's government: you've eaten the money, you've eaten the money, you've invested five contractors, you've thrown it to the Syrians, you've financed politics; there's no money left in the treasury. Now, we've surrendered to the corona virus. We don't have any money in the treasury, so we're looking at the IMF, in case the IMF can fund countries where the coronavirus is located. We've warned you not to let this happen. Remember, not too long ago, two months ago, I spent $40 billion on this bench to the Syrians, isn't that a sin? The people of this country need it more. When I said, "We'll spend another $40 billion," you said, "What will happen?" And I say, "Come, now spend this 40 billion dollars on the people of this country." Let the Syrians spend this $40 billion on the people of Turkey. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] You know, for Canal Istanbul, we find it by the movement of one hand. You know that 75 billion dollars you call it, make two more moves, bring another 75 billion dollars, spend it on the people of this country. The people of this country are now thinking about the closed house: What will I do if I don't go to work the day after tomorrow? Put a curfew, I say, in the first place, put a curfew; enter the people, isolate them. But what's the guy gonna eat if he doesn't go out on the street? How will the social government take his bread to his door, leave his vaccine, leave his clothes, pay for his electricity? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm so sorry, Mr. President, I'll stop right now.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0103par0599	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0102par0600	To do that, you need a material resource, you've spent this material resource like a wild one, you've ruined it, you've emptied Turkey's treasure, you've left its fuel. I assure you, this sin will follow you, you'll see. The next generations will say: "You have starved our fathers, and our grandfather, and you have given the money to the allies, and you have spent it to the Syrians to overthrow Assad. You will surely give it before history and before the people, and in the Apocalypse." I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0104par0603	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0105par0604	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0106par0605	You have to answer this really hard, hard, hard.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0104par0608	Mr. President, I have listened to Mr. Turkkan. He's had several criticisms about the approach to the economy, but he's also had some criticism of the treasure. We understand the expression ejaculated here as a hint, as if to reduce it to our pocket. There's no way that's happening. I don't know any allies. You measure the debt of countries by proportioning its national income. At this time, especially during this period in power, we have converted Turkey's foreign currency debt into more TL. The rate of debt is now at 30 per cent, so that's a proportion -- like twice as much as when we came to power -- down here. So I wanted to share that information with the public. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit01spe0107par0611	Thank you. The talks on chapter two are complete. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit02spe0107par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 72nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0107par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 72nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 196. The commission is in place. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate votes after I've processed the motions on those substances if there are any. There are three motions on the 21st article; the first two motions I will make are the same, and I will process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 21st article of Law Proposal No. 196 be removed from the text of the law proposal. Diyet Dilan Taşdemir Gülültan Koçyiğit Murat Çepni Şevin Coşkun Oya Ersoy Abdullah Koç The signatures of the other motion are: Gamze Taşcıer Müzeyyen Şevkin Emine Gülizar Emecan Cavit Bee Saliha Sera Kadıgil Milk Albay Antmen Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0108par0019	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0107par0020	It's Mersin MP Albany Antmen who wants to talk about the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Antmen.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0109par0023	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as a country, as in the world, we're going through a very difficult time. In this difficult time, of course, the quickest and most necessary measures must be taken. In health, in social life, the measures that need to be taken in economic life must be in the best interest of the citizens, but in the economic package, unfortunately, we have seen that only the bosses have been rescued, not the people. We hope that power will soon return from its error and this crisis will be overcome with minimal damage. From here, I pray to God for the mercy of our citizens who died of the coronavirus, and for the immediate healing of our well-treated citizens. Dear lawmakers, I wish we could talk about the economic problems of our tradesmen here today; we wish we could talk about improving the economic conditions of our employees; we discuss improving the economic situation of lawyers, free financial advisors, other freelancers; we talk about cargoers, AVM employees, PTT employees, the corona virus, and take precautions, but we're talking about a bag of laws here. Now, I'd like to tell you our views on the 21st article of the proposal. Look, in this article, there is a need for a change in the process of admissions and membership notifications of the associations. Now, I'd like to get your attention here. In 2018, his name at the time was the Ministry of Interior Associations, which later became the General Directorate of Civil Society Relations, which sent articles to all associations. In that article, T.C. I.D., address, and all the information kept at the moment of registration are recorded in the system. They said. They also told the associations that if it is not registered, the membership of all non-registered members will be reduced by the same law. Now, you, today, are bringing this matter back to the agenda of the House with the law. You've already mentioned this in the article you sent to the associations two years ago, so what's the point of making a law for a change in regulations right now? If you were going to do this with a change of law, why did you go to a change in the code two years ago? Dear MPs, because then it is imperative that only the identity information of the association managers be given to the Ministry, while this arrangement stipulates that the identity information of all members of the association be given to the Ministry within 30 days. Dear lawmakers, the main thing is that it's the law of disposing, which means that we can't plug it in the administration, we can plug it in with the law. You need to know that this proposal violates the 13th Article of the Constitution, the freedom of organisation and freedom of expression and the Law on Protection of Personal Data, which, if you do not know, is a great shame, but if you bring it in knowing that it is contrary to the Constitution and international agreements that we are on, and if you will raise your hand, it will be a greater disgrace. Look, it's an unconstitutional offer that you've sworn in, sworn in. What did we say? We all swore on this stand, and we said, "I swear by my honor and honor that I will remain faithful to the Constitution. The rest is up to you, honored MPs. Members of parliament normally make the adoption of members by their rights and regulations by the Constitution, and now, with this offer, all members will be sent to the governor's approval, so that the governor's office can determine who will be a member or who will not be a member of which association. If you're suggesting something, it could be her rejection. Then what's the point of being an NGO? Open up. Look at what a democratic mass organization is, how it is in the world; if you don't know, there's no shame in learning. With this offer, our associations are no longer a fraternity. Then let's close all the associations, the governor will decide who's going to be a member anyway, let's start a governor's association, all the members of the association will be a member of the governor's association. We need to remember the Constitution and our oath on the Constitution. Dear lawmakers, I hope this coronavirus will be in danger, but after these days, many of our tradesmen, employees, freelancers, lawyers, financial advisors and workers will suffer great economic damage. Now, we already have to take these economic measures, and I salute our entire Grand National Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0110par0036	It's Ağrı MP Abdullah Koç who wants to talk about the same motions. Here you go, Mr. Coach.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0111par0039	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, it is now said that Turkey stays at home because of the outbreak of coronavirus. Okay, but stay at home. What do you have in the house? There's poverty in the house; the pot doesn't boil, there's thousands of unemployed. What right do you have to tell these people to stay home? What right do you have to say that? You've robbed this country, you're telling this people to stay home. Millions of unemployed people, millions. There are millions of people who can't bring a bread and bread to their own home. You call these people stay home. Look, first of all, it is a grave violation of human rights to make such a request without meeting the mandatory needs of the public. That can't happen. You condemn these people to hunger. Dear friends, the pandemic of the coronavirus has come to an incredible extent. You know what Dr. Tedros Adhanom, director general of the World Health Organization, says? It says: "The only way to defeat this plague is solidarity, solidarity, solidarity." What else does it say? This is an invisible enemy to mankind, and you can only be defeated by solidarity, he says. Dear friends, while solidarity should be fought against this invisible virus against humanity, the AKP government has begun to become a Kurdish enemy again, it has emerged with a Kurdish hostility. He has appointed trustees again to municipalities belonging to HDP. This barbarism and lawlessness became a port of refuge when this power was stuck. This government has become more afraid of these people, the HDP, and the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) are afraid of it, dear friends. Instead of taking economic package measures against the health system, the community, the pensioner, the worker, the peasant, he is busy taking advantage of the situation by turning it into an enemy of Kurdish, appointing trustees to municipalities and taking false claims against the people's will. Look, do you think this painting is a coincidence? Look, my dear friends, the townships that have been canceled: Bonds, Tushba, Edremit, The Robber, Tetman and Dağpınar. You think that's a coincidence? Look, Diyarbakır Metropolitan, Mardin Metropolitan, Van Metropolitan Municipality have been seized. You think that's a coincidence, too? Look, Batman, the municipalities of our Hakkari provinces have been seized. You think that's a coincidence, too? Güroymak, Bismil, Ergani, Hazro, Kayapınar, Kocaköy, Kulp, lice, Silvan, Sur, Sur, Yenişehir, Karayazı, Yüksekova, Derek, Kızıltepe, Mazıdağı, Mardin, Savur, Bulanık, Varto, Cizre, İdil, Suruç, Başle, Ercish, İpepek, Muradiye, Özalp, Saray. You think that's normal, too? Behold, the two bridges, the Akpazar, the Halfeli, the Erentepe, the Terms of Tekrek. You think that's a coincidence, too? It's not a coincidence, dear friends. This is Kurdish hostility, another expression of Kurdish hostility, another practice, which is clear, dear friends. We certainly don't accept it here, we say we won't accept it. This people will not yield to you, and know this, and we call upon you in the presence of all our people, clearly. Dear friends, in addition to these irregularities, the AKP wants to intervene in the way the public is organised again, the freedom of the public to organize, and the understanding of the public to become a member of the associations. What's he doing? He wants to send all the data to the Home Office pool. How are we supposed to trust this Home Office? It's a ministry that imposes lawlessness on us every day. And what are we supposed to do? That's how we're going to send this information and the information of this people to the Home Office. Is that possible? There's no system of law left underfoot. You didn't let it go. And you're going to send all of the public's classified information to the Home Office, and you're going to have those people flagged. We don't accept that either, and we're going to fight it hard and we're going to fight it hard. Dear friends, let me tell you something about practice: look, in all their operations under the Anti-Terror Law, all their investigations, the public is asked, the person in custody is asked, which association do you belong to, which party do you belong to? Even though it's against the law, that's what's being imposed on the public. Besides, when this law passes, who knows what will be imposed on these people. Therefore, dear friends, we certainly don't accept these unlawfulities, and we will stand against them. Look, this people are struggling with the virus epidemic, so take care of all the needs of this people, and give what you have taken from these people to this people. This is what we call you. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0112par0049	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0113par0052	Mr. President, you robbed and robbed this country in the orator talk. He used a phrase like that, and we certainly don't accept that. A government that robs and robs the country can't sit in power, and people will teach it a lesson. We've just expressed that the term "Kurdish hostility" is being used, and we certainly don't have that kind of hostility, we embrace our entire nation with the same sincerity. Let me tell you: We take authority from the people, we work according to the command of the people, we fear no one, and the preacher says: "You are afraid of us, and we are not afraid." And I offer this to the compliments of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0112par0055	Here you go, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0114par0057	Mr. President, thank you. In fact, our clerk spoke the truth, and since there wasn't even time, he said little, so as of yesterday, eight of our municipalities were seized. There is little to say about the transfer of trustees, but there is no mention of them. We tell all Turkey how much corruption exists in other municipalities, especially our Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality, and how much money should be used as public service. We are not enemies of the Kurd. They say, "We are not very happy when we say it, but how should we describe hostility?" While the whole world is dealing with a plague like Corona, the human family is building projects day and night trying to figure out how to cooperate with local governments, going one night, one morning, or after the shift to detain the mayors, right now there is a four-day probation period for our Batman Co-Chairs. In the province where I'm acting, Co-Chair Serhat Bey is testifying at the gendarmes, and I can show you the footage that dozens of soldiers are raiding the house, everyone's lives are threatened, so how else can we express hostility in this matter, there is no such concept in Turkish? But I want to tell the people of Turkey, the Turkish people, everyone else, please be Batman for a moment. A Didimli, a Batman citizen, a Yozgatian, a Diyarbakir for a moment, a Kayseri from Mardin for a moment, and the mayors he voted for were taken into custody one morning or one night in handcuffs, and the trustee turned the city into a police station, please think, think, empathize.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0115par0061	Pack it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0114par0062	I'm picking it up. If they find a concept other than hostility, we can discuss it. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0116par0068	I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose the amendment of the declaration of law under the framework of Article 21 of the following 196, to be replaced in the form of five days, and to be removed from the text of matter, which is included in the article. Mehmet Mush Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bekir Kuğur Erim Vildan Yılmaz Gürel Emrullah Business Asuman Erdoğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0117par0077	We leave it at the discretion of the House, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0118par0078	Motive...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0116par0079	I'm reading the reason for the motion: The motion aims to increase the duration of the declaration obligation in Article 23 of Law 5253 from thirty days to forty-five days, and to be made to the institutional unit of the institutional center of the declaration of the clause. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 21st article: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions on the 22nd article. The first two motions I'm going to read are the same, so I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 22 of Law Proposal No. 196 be removed from the proposal of the law. Diyet Dilan Taşdemir Murat Çepni Oya Ersoy Gülışstan Kılıç Koçyiğit Şevin Coşkun Nuran İmir The signatures of the other motion are: Ayhan Erel Hope Dikbayir Hope White Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0119par0097	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0116par0098	Şırnak MP Nuran İmir wants to talk about the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Imir.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0120par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. The AKP restricts citizens' basic rights and freedoms with every amendment to this bag of laws. The palace's jurisdictions are expanding, and the government, which singles out all the institutions of the state, no longer leaves a single opposition voice, with NGOs under surveillance and supervision. The clauses are clearly aimed at restricting the freedom of organisation and freedom of expression, one of the most basic constitutional rights. Associations violate the privacy of private life, not even by permission from governorship, but by the obligation of members to transfer personal data into electronic media. According to Article 9 of the Act of Associations, internal control is the basis of the association. According to the Human Rights Association, the freedom of individuals to form an association is defined in law by the freedom to define its own internal order, accession rights and obligations and the area of activity. Dear lawmakers, today we face an epidemic that endangers the health of mankind. The AKP is looking to turn this human drama into an opportunity. He tries to cover his failure by attacking HDP, the will of the people. As we concentrate on the crisis that has arisen as a country, the AKP's government is concerned about how to eliminate the achievements of the HDP, which it cannot fight democratically. Yes, this time, the government turned the corona virus into an opportunity and appointed the trustee virus to our eight municipalities yesterday. Once again, we say that this is the exacerbation of the will of the people, and this is the inability to tolerate the choice of a people, and this is the coup of the party that you cannot defeat in democratic ways. Whether he is a HDP or not, all must oppose the mental system of trustees. For everyone, this is a test of democracy. Our people never approved of trustees. The last time we saw this was in the local elections. It is not indecency, it is not intuitive! Friends, the AKP is attacking and bullying with police armor, running enemy law. We'll never accept it, we'll never accept it. Believe me, the biggest disease is in the power of the country itself. There will be a coup, there will be an attack, there will be an attack, there will be an economic crisis, there will be an attack, there will be an earthquake, there will be an attack, there will be an outbreak, there will be an attack on HDP. You're so scared, the HDP is the alternative to your power. HDP is the guaranteed insurance of this country, HDP will end your rant formation and your eating of society will end. There is no need for any kit to submit the test of AKP power. Directly, this mentality should actually be quarantined. But 14 days isn't enough. This mentality must be treated completely. Because by their practice, they do serious damage to society, inflict deep wounds on society. The AKP regime is the biggest danger to the people of Turkey. It's like a virus that's been contradicting itself for years, slowly eating away at society. Democracy is just as important to avoid the Corona virus as it is to get rid of the AKP.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0121par0108	Shame on you!
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0120par0109	With cologne and disinfection, the virus doesn't pass.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0121par0110	You're the virus!
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0120par0111	The only solution to this political virus is to act together, to resist, to fight.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0122par0112	Get out of here!
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0120par0113	We won't stop resisting. We'll bury you in those crates, even if it's a choice. We'll bury you again! We'll bury you again!
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0123par0114	Get out of here!
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0120par0115	And it is our call from this place to all our people, to all our people: take your precautions against the virus, stay in your homes, but organize against the AKP, unite, resist. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0124par0118	Get out of here!
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0125par0119	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0126par0120	Here, I promise you where you are.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0125par0123	Mr. President, the speaker has compared the virus to the AK PARTY. That's an unfortunate analogy. The evil is the owner of the word. We strongly deny it.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0126par0125	Thank you. About the motions...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0127par0127	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0128par0128	He didn't say anything, Ramadan! He didn't say what you said before.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0127par0129	I'll tell you why it's a virus.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0129par0130	Mr. Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0127par0132	Mr. President, thank you. We're talking about a place that protects public health and public will. The plague threatens the public's health, but the trustee is taking the people's will. So we can say that the analogy of the virus is quite appropriate.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0129par0138	It's Denizli MP Yasın Ozturk who wants to talk about his proposals.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0130par0140	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI Group over Article 22 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. I salute the General Assembly. The heart would want us to be able to talk about the use of renewable energy sources in matter content for the production of electricity, but as a country, we're out of energy. Right now, all we care about is restoring our citizen's hopes. The virus has quarantined both our citizens and our economy. Right now all we have to do is make a solution for our country. Our scientists, the medical world, have a duty to study vaccines, medicines, and treatments. From here, I applaud all the paramedics once again. Our job is to make decisions on social and economic measures as well as on health care. At this point, the power cannot afford to reject suggestions from the opposition. Our only wish and wish is to overcome this challenge in health, unity, and unity, and to free our citizens from economic quarantine once the quarantine process is over, and to bring them back into social life. We call the citizen stay home. We do, but we have employees who don't have the luxury of staying home in our country where the unemployed are full. At minimum wage, employees who have to comply with the call to stay at home also turn their work spaces for free. At this stage, the victim and the employer are both victims. He has to think about his employer's tax, his rent, his employee's salary, his insurance, his electricity, his water, and his gas, many more expense pens, but he can't do business. Taxes were postponed for a while, transferred, transferred into a taxi. Is it clear how long the quarantine process will last? It's unclear. There's no telling how long they'll be able to protect their employees, how much more of our non-functioning population will increase. We all have to put our hands under the table and help our citizens with a social sense of state, and that's the condition for today. Keep a man alive so the government can live. In order for us to keep the state alive, the new management strategy of the public economy must be austerity, austerity, prevention, and these days public resources must be used primarily for the health and welfare poor. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have a little advice, from the top. Maybe I'll get a reaction from our citizens who've been saving for the pilgrimage for years, who've made their plan, who've earned the right to go to the Holy Land this year, but it's vital, even if this disease, Coronavirus, has a vaccine, for a while longer, will continue to be a nuisance to our country, not just to our country, but to the world. You know, this year, the pilgrimage calendar was announced by our President of the Religious Affairs, that the exit of July 22, 25 July 2020 would be the return of 6 August-2 September. The 2020 pilgrimage pre-recorded between November 11th and December 13th, after drawing the lottery, the final registration process was completed and 83,430 of our citizens earned the right to travel to the Holy Land. The Ministry of Diet Affairs suspended their visit to Umre on February 27th in order to combat the coronavirus epidemic, while Saudi Arabia suspended their visit to Umre. On March 15, 2020, the chair of the Ministry of Religious Affairs postponed the interview of the health staff who were scheduled for the pilgrimage. On March 20th, the General Directorate of the Hajj and Umre Services postponed the payment of the Hajj payments to the second and third installments until further notice. On March 20th, the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure halted flights to Saudi Arabia, according to the Health Ministry Science Board's decision. Our citizens back from the last Umre are still under quarantine. About 40,000 of our 77,000 citizens who carried out the pilgrimage mission last year are from citizens over 60 years old. Unfortunately, the age group that this virus affects the most is over 60 years old. For those of you who have the means to perform the pilgrimage, let us, of course, assume that God's name is destined for those who are fit and able to carry out the worship. The House of Bakara of Bakara says in verse 196: Complete the pilgrimage and the prayer for God. If you are prevented, send what is easy for you. From the obstacle here, the intention, the weighty view, is negative, such as the lack of road safety, the lack of road safety, and the danger of enemies. As a result, when you are in safety, the statement is supported. However, given the increase in the return of Umre and the increase in the coronavirus cases, the Chairman of Religious Affairs must make a radical decision today. Come on, this year, let's cancel the pilgrimage with the rights of the pilgrims to stay in the lottery for the rest of the year. With the intention of assisting the pilgrimage, our Ministry of Religious Affairs is temporarily assigning about 4,500 staff members, including religious staff and paramedics, inside the institution or through the examination. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0131par0149	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0130par0150	Apart from their tuition, the road, the hotel, the food costs are a serious number in the budget. If our Ministry of Religious Affairs transfers its budget to this organisation and its budget to nonprofits in the 2020 budget to the Ministry of Health for $39m,300,000, that figure would be appreciated by the understanding of social responsibility and social state if it was used for spending due to the epidemic. The messenger of Allah, in the chief of the event which was passed down from Buhari, hath commanded the angels according to their wills. In final words, I hope that the intentions and efforts of our citizens who can't make the pilgrimage this year will be rewarded as if they had gone to God's rights. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0132par0154	I submit the same motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the following arrangement of Article 22 of the Law Proposal for Changes in some Laws that are in question in 196 rows. With all due respect. Article 22: 5253 of Article 32 (I) was removed from the text of Article 23 (23) and added to the joke. Those who fail to comply with the obligation of notification stated in Article 23 shall be fined 500 Turkish liras. Gamze Taşçıer Müzeyyen Şevkin Emine Gülizar Emecan Cavit Bee Saliha Sera Kadigil Milk Faruk Sarıaslan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0133par0166	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0132par0167	Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0134par0170	Mr. President, thank you. In the Coronavirus epidemic, the role of our health workers, who work hard without regard for the concept of overtime, is very important. The health of our health workers is just as important as their own. The press has reported allegations that the mask and other protective equipment stock will only last two days at Nazilli State Hospital, where some 600 medical personnel serving 7 districts of 300,000 people in Aydın. One of the masks to be distributed will be given, and that they will be asked to store in the bag for use again. Paramedics say, "We don't want personal protective equipment with the grain, we want masks instead of applause." As in Turkey, problems with protective equipment in Aydın Nazilli must be resolved immediately, and our medical staff must not be abandoned to its destiny. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0135par0176	Nevşehir MP Faruk Sarıaslan wants to talk about the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Yellowaslan.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0136par0179	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm going to talk about the change in the Law on Associations. The board of directors is obliged to report the name, surname, date of birth, and identity number of those who have ended their membership with those who have been elected to other bodies of the audit board and members of the association by offering changes to the Act of Associations. The reason for the proposal is that there are problems such as membership in associations without the knowledge of citizens and the absence of procedures of those who have withdrawn from membership. This law does not justify the change intended to be made in the article because there are sufficient sanctions against the grounds set out in the Turkish Penal Code. It seems that the goal is to prevent organization from being thrown out of fear. If you stop people from organizing in direct or indirect ways, you'll open up an illegal organization. Under-the-stair organization, as you call it, begins. Freedom of organization can be described as freedom for individuals to come together by creating a collective structure that represents them to protect their own interests. The freedom of organization has been protected in Article 20 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article 22 of the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights, and Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Turkey has approved all of these documents in accordance with its procedure and passed them all on to internal law. In accordance with Article 90 of the Constitution, these documents have become part of internal law. The European Convention on Human Rights shall be subject to the 11th article of the European Convention on Human Rights, and to the freedom of the Constitution, 33, 51, 53, 54, 68, and 69. You can't stop that freedom directly or indirectly. In this regard, the European Court of Human Rights of 2007 ruled against Bulgaria in a decision on Bulgaria, which did not find it right to prevent an organisation from effectively using the freedom of organisation and under difficult conditions to overcome by the state. Freedom of organization is closely associated with democracy, and its importance in this context has been adopted by the Constitutional Court. According to the court: In democrats, the presence of organisations where citizens can come together and follow common goals is an important component of a healthy society. In democracies such an organization is a basic right to be respected and protected by the state. In the third article of Article 20 of the Constitution, personal data can be processed only in the conditions prescribed by the law or with open consent of the person. The basic and procedures for the preservation of personal data are regulated by law. This proposal also violates the laws of the Protection of Personal Data Act and constitutes contradictions. The general principles regarding the processing of personal data in Article 4 of the Law on Protection of Personal Data are that the processing of personal data is in accordance with the law and the laws of integrity; it is not contrary to the principles of being limited and measured for specific, open and legitimate purposes; it is said that there is no limit to the purpose they are engaged in. Dear lawmakers, it should be known that the standards that will be considered when it comes to a legal discrepancy regarding freedom of organisation are the standards set up by control bodies such as the European Court of Human Rights or, in particular, the Human Rights Committee. If you, the European Court of Human Rights, which I consider to be above, insist that this clause be passed by the Constitutional Court, you will be forced internationally, paying serious compensation. Remember, the country is not ruled by fear and fear. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers say democracy is not freedom to destroy freedom; democracy is a regime of reconciliation and balance to ensure social peace, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0137par0187	I now submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are four motions on the 23rd article. The first three motions I'm going to read are the same, so I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 23 of Law Proposal 196 be removed from the text of the law proposal. Diyet Dilan Taşdemir Gülışstan Kılıç Koçyiğit Oya Ersoy The signatures of the other motion are: Gamze Taşcıer Müzeyyen Şevkin Emine Gülizar Emecan Saliha Sera Kadıgil Milk Cavid Bee Alpay Antmen The signatures of the other motion are: Ayhan Erel Enez Kaplan Ümit Dikbayır Hope White Muhammad Naci Cinisli Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0138par0210	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0137par0211	Hatay MP Serkan Topal has asked for the same motions. Here you go, Mr. Clumsy.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0139par0214	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow congressmen, I pay my respects to all of you. First of all, I offer my greetings and greetings to all of our fellow workers, our fellow physicians, health workers, municipal workers, civil servants, and all our employees, our citizens, from here, and from here, I wish them all the ease. Now, dear friends, the coronavirus was seen in China on December 12th, about three months and ten days before that. The government came out, and they said, "We're taking precautions. What kind of precautions did they take? Dear friends, look, we're all on social media -- believe me, they can't find gloves, they can't find disinfectant, they can't find masks; they're on the black market. And why is that? How? What precautions? And, dear friends, there's 17,000 respirators. Now, why haven't we had a ventilator in three months? Why are they friends? Now, last time the Minister came out here and said, "We've ordered 500,000 test kits. "Ya, South Korea is running 20,000 tests a day, and we haven't been able to run a total of 25,000 tests yet, dear friends. Where's the precaution, fellas? Dear friends, you know, they got 500 grand orders, so we'll just drop the 500 grand order, you know, when we first said "homeland," first we said citizen, first citizens, dear friends. Dear friends, now, I'd like to express a problem in particular. They're watching us right now, and we've got a lot of citizens who are really victims abroad and are now seriously broke, especially in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar, Cyprus, and many countries around the world. Now, the crisis table has been established, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group. I'm calling from here to the crisis table, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, all MPs: Look, our citizens are victims there, our workers are seriously victims. Believe me, there are eight people in one room in Arabia, six of them staying, and they can't get out. As soon as our State Department contacts the State Department, we'll bring in our citizens who want to come. Oh, they say there aren't enough beds for quarantine. In Hatay Serinyol, we provide enough space for our citizens to come to Hatay. I mean it, I mean it with all my heart. And for that, I'm willing to pay my three-month salary, frankly. As long as those citizens come, our citizens who wish to come. There, with all our mayors, we can solve this problem in the local sense, create a quarantine zone for our citizens. Dear friends, the economic package has been announced. Now, in the economic package -- I mean, do you laugh or cry -- the VAT has been reduced to 1 percent on plane travel, from 18 to 1 percent. Now, dear friends, you tell the citizen not to go out on the one hand. After that, the economic package -- what is it, sir -- is a discount on plane travel. And where will the citizen go from? Is he flying from the living room to the kitchen or from the living room to the bedroom? Are you kidding me? Now, even if he went to the bedroom, you didn't leave any psychology to sleep with, I mean it. Dear friends, that's why it's urgent... that Mr. President has announced, once again, this package of economics is not enough, dear friends. Once again, I want to sort out what needs to be done as soon as possible: family insurance must pass through the TBMM immediately, dear friends. The conditions of permission for high levels of infection should be facilitated, working in public and private areas. Some of the costs for free leave in the private sector due to the Corona virus should be paid from the unemployment fund. The hours of unemployment must be extended. Dear friends, again, the victims of teachers who can't be paid for school holidays should be compensated with the resources created under the unemployment fund. Tax and insurance premiums for small tradesmen and SMEs must be postponed. In a week's time, they should be pardoned, making it easier for them to access the loan. For support for our citizens in food, hygiene and medical areas, they must develop strategic plans as both central government and local governments. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, it's very important, may we proceed?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0140par0226	Pick it up in a minute.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0139par0227	Due to delays in the payments of water, electricity and gas from municipalities and distribution companies, the cuts must be halted immediately, and the water, electricity and gas cut due to no payment must be reconnected. Dear friends, again, within a week's time, the legal arrangement to remove the housing tax and the Tourism Recognising Fund must be passed through the TBMM. Support and precautionary package for all sectors must be announced. The conditions of prisons must be corrected; again, detention procedures must be reconsidered. Dear friends, once again, preparations must be made to facilitate the right and use of short labour grants in difficult sectors. Closed businesses should be provided with cash support, free use of the Internet for our students. Again, our municipalities are working hard despite their limited budgets, so special funds must be split. Finally, Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0141par0232	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0139par0233	Thank you. Dear friends, again, I'm saying the chiefs should also get a grant. Thank you very much. I hope you'll take that into consideration. Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0142par0238	Muş MP Gülüstan Kılıç Koçyiğitıt has asked for a statement about the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Coachyugit.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0143par0241	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Of course, we're going through corona days, the whole world is a mess, but unfortunately we can't talk about the coronance as the first agenda because we're actually trying to fight under a trustee regime that AKP has imposed on us. Yesterday, eight other municipalities were appointed trustees by the AKP and our total number of trustees rose to 40. Now, we're dealing with the fact that in the morning and evenings, the people's will, the AKP (AKP), which has spoken of the nation's will, has actually destroyed the last bastion in the name of democracy in Turkey, and the last branch that we hold on to has been undermined and destroyed by his own hands. So, the AKP is destroying the will of the chest, doing its best to destroy the public's faith in the chest, democracy. Now, in the face of this practice, you don't accept it when we say it's a Kurdish enemy policy against the Kurdish people, a policy against destroying the will of the Kurdish people, but when we look at all of your applications, we see together that you really want to establish the Kayium regime established in all the provinces in the region, and not be an exception, but as an essential element of the regime. Now, as we say in difficult times, the world deals with the corona and while the world deals with the corona, we're actually fighting the regime in the AKP's years, actually fighting the regime, fighting for democracy, dear friends. As we question the meaning of world life, the ecological crisis, the consequences of ecological destruction, and try to learn lessons from it, we are actually witnessing how the AKP looted protected sites during its corona days. While the countries of the world carry out the requirements of statehood, explain the package on the package, stay at home to their people. You won't have a problem. You won't go hungry. What do we have when we give you the assurance, dear friends? The AKP is actually trying to run the process by handing out cologne and masks to our people. Now, when we put all this together, what do we see? We can also say that the AKP is working for 1 per cent, it's a capitalist, it's kind of supportive of capital, it's actually running all of its policies, dear friends. What is the AKP doing in this country today when people can't reach the most basic living materials, clean water, clean food, and warming and housing are the biggest problems? Corona's making arrangements with the package he announced in his day about the mortgages in the dwellings, so some contractors, some supporters, are in the interest of renegotiating them again, dear friends. So we ask: Why do the poor in this country, the workers in this country, the low-income in this country have been paying taxes for years, and why do they put their backs on this state? If you're not going to pay the tax they pay these people on their most difficult days, why are you walking around saying, "We're a government." And you're showing off? I think the AKP misconstrues the Constitution and thinks that the most fundamental principle of the Constitution is the social state principle for the rich, for the rich, for the 5 per cent, for the 5 per cent company, which, in the most difficult of times, is to practice in favor of the allies and to enforce them quickly. Dear friends, if a poll were to be published today, if we did a survey and went out on the street, we could ask our people if they were holding microphones: is the AKP's power more harmful, or is the AKP's power more harmful? I think the answer would be that the AKP's power would be more harmful.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0144par0249	Shame on you! What a shame! What the hell! What a mindset!
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0143par0250	Dear friends, now is the day of the corona. The Ministry of Health has established a Science Board, running the process, but how does it run it? The monopoly operates by logic and without transparency.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0144par0251	You're the biggest virus.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0143par0252	In this area, he does not associate with the working groups, he does not take the parties as a fortress in any way, and he announces to the public the number of cases and deaths in this country in the middle of the night from his personal Twitter account. We have to say that it's illegitimate, that it's non-serious, that it's, that it's, that it's, that it's, that it's, that it's, that it's, that it's, that it's, that it's, that it's, that it's, that it's, that it's, that it's, that it's, that it's, that it's, that it's, that it's, that What else is he doing? He stands in front of the cameras, thanking and praising the AKP's President and Finance Minister, without giving him any information about the spread of age, class, gender, profession, where, in which cities.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0145par0254	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0143par0255	I will, Mr. President. Now, you've applauded the health workers; very well, and we applaud them, and we thank them, and I'll put it to you as a health worker for over 18 and a half years. So, what are you doing today? What does the World Health Organization say? He says that in the largest group of health workers, death rates are higher than in many trade groups. They die, and in fact, they infect their families and their environment with the virus. And do you, for example, provide a very simple mask for health workers, other than applauding them? No, you can't; the health workers stopped taking care of patients, they got off, they're putting masks in hospital tailors. It's a shame, it's a shame.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0146par0257	Lies, lies!
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0143par0258	If you don't have an institution to sew this mask, if you don't have a workshop, you should be ashamed of it. This is a clear indication of how you approach the process. There's a lot more to say, and I'm going to tell you in the future. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0147par0261	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0148par0264	Mr. President, someone has just made a statement about our medical staff, there's no shortage of materials. All the equipment they need is provided to our health workers, provided and provided. When compared with the population, Turkey is one of the world's largest bed capacity for intensive care. In that sense, all possibilities have now been mobilized. Mr. Hatibe, I suggest you go out and ask the people if it's more dangerous or worse. Look, they'll tell you what.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0147par0270	Aksaray MP Ayhan Erel wants to talk about the same proposals. Here you are, Mr. Erel.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0149par0273	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the great Turkish nation, Turkey is going through very difficult conditions. I'd like to thank our employees who work hard and work in hospitals in the face of the danger we face. These employees will be given material opportunities, according to the Ministry of Health, but while these opportunities are well-known, we have complaints among health workers that there is a distinction between staff who face all the risks at the hospital and who are fighting hard in this area -- for example, medical secretaries, staff in the kitchen, security workers, cleaning workers -- are not taking advantage of this right. I'm saying that all of the people who work at the hospital should be treated as one and that all employees should be allowed to take advantage of this right without making a distinction here. Again, municipalities serve under these difficult conditions. In particular, when we look at the local municipalities, people are more intimate with each other. Under the circumstances, it is unlikely that citizens will be able to pay property tax, water money, and various taxes. Therefore, municipalities have to remain unable to pay their employees, let alone carry out their primary duties, their basic duties. So I'm thinking that for whatever reason in the grant sent to our municipalities from the Bank of Province, giving up cuts for at least six months would bring our municipalities a little peace of mind. Again, amongst the complaints and demands we've received, bus companies carrying long-distance passengers are very troubled about this. They've reduced their passengers by 50 percent in accordance with the department of health or the department of concerned. Think of a passenger bus that goes from Kars to Istanbul, where the drivers, the busmen, travel together for about thirty-six, thirty-eight hours, and then fail to meet their basic needs because the facilities are closed. We think that either these companies, which carry bus passengers across the country, should not be allowed to carry passengers, or should be resolved with the most logical and intelligent consideration of the problems. Again, stay in the house, survive. With its slogan, coffees, restaurants, barbers, and so on, the workplaces are closed, but the experts who work here, the staff, the waiters, the cooks, unfortunately, they can no longer bring bread to their homes, they can no longer pay their rent; they can't afford electricity, water, natural gas. We believe it would be appropriate for our people, at least these citizens to work to benefit from the aid of about a thousand liras in which our government will provide for two million families -- to provide for the basic needs of our citizens, water money, electricity money, gas money by the state, to be met by municipalities, and to increase the allowance for municipalities. I don't know how healthy and efficient this is going to be to help citizens with welfare. We know how those who were registered here before are registered. With references from various district agencies, Social Aid and Solidarity are being registered to the Support Fund, and while citizens who are close to political will are taking advantage of this assistance, it is unfortunately known to all of us that our citizens who do not share the same view of political power have suffered a great deal in this regard. We expect to be eliminated and provided with the necessary assistance, regardless of the political party preferences of people who really need it. There's so much to say, time's up. Thank you all.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0150par0279	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Article 23 of the Law Proposal for Changes in some Laws of 196, in the following way of Article 2 of Article 5253, which is added to Law No. 5253. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this clause are determined by regulations issued by the Ministry of Interior within six months at the latest from the time the matter is in effect. Ali Muhittin Stoneborn Desire Erdem Olcay Pilot Ayşe Sibel Ersoy Mehmet Celal Fendoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0151par0290	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0150par0291	İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0152par0294	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my Nationalist Action Party Group on Article 23 of the Law Proposal to Change Some Laws in 196. I salute our Veteran Assembly, our beloved Turkish nation and members of the press who are watching us on their screens. Dear lawmakers, with this proposal of law, the needs of our public institutions and organisations are intended to implement legal regulations on 21 different issues in order to meet demands from our nation recently. I wish our proposal for the law to be good for our country and our nation. Dear lawmakers, March 18th-24th is considered the Week of Respect for the Elders. Old people are the values that unite our past with our future. We too will grow old, and when we get older, we need to listen to the problems of our elderly today, share in their problems, and make solutions to their problems. Old age is the most important part of life, which means something different to every human being. Our elders are the most valuable assets that make up a bridge between our yesterday and our present, to bring our culture and values back to tomorrow. Age requires dignity. This is a debt of gratitude to our elders. It's important that our nation, especially those of us who age, is isolated as a result of the Coronavirus becoming an epidemic. Therefore, curfew has been imposed on 65 years of age and above. With the curfews in effect, a system has been established, especially in a place other than its own residence, where those who have to travel, leave the house, can deliver their demands through 155, 156, 112 emergency search lines. In order for those of us who have reached an age to stay alive, there are responsibilities for us to provide for them and to sustain them in a healthy way, and each one of us has to carry out those responsibilities with care. It is our duty to care for our elders for the rest of their lives in the age and care of people who have spent most of their lives serving our community and our country. As the National Movement Party, we have fought for everyone who's in trouble and who's looking for a solution to their problems, and we will continue to. It is the duty of all of us to take care of our elders and their problems, to make solutions. In order for us to look to our future with confidence, we need to provide conditions for pensioners and elderly people to live well. Of course, arrangements made in this regard are of great value. It is our government's and our MPs' duty to make life easier for the elderly who prepare us for the present and for the future, and to allow them to live without need of anyone. Let's not forget that one day we'll all grow old. I would like to put an end to the words of Vezi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our republic: ▪ The attitude of a nation towards elderly citizens and pensioners is the most important part of the nation's power to live. A nation that has no sense of gratitude for those who have worked hard in the past has no right to look to the future with confidence. Before I put an end to my words, I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude to all of our medical staff, who have fought the coronavirus, who have done their duty with great sacrifice and patience. I ask God's mercy to all our citizens who died because of the Coronavirus, and to be patient with us and with their grieving families. Again, I wish for immediate healing for our well-treated citizens. Let's not forget that we all have to draw this picture in unity, in patience, and in the unity of this union, especially in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and we all have to pass it on to our citizens once and for all. I believe we'll all get through these hard times together and we'll all have healthy days together. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0153par0306	I submit the motion to your votes. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0154par0308	Mr. President, thank you. I'd like to ask the Commission a question on the 23rd Amendment. Article 23 is as follows: The following article has been added to Law 5253. ▪ The process is to be done electronically. EK MADDE 2- According to this law and date 22.11.2011 and Turkish authoritarian Law 4721, any recording of the association can be done in electronics. Can members of the association resign through the electronic state system here? Does this article, Article 23, respond to this? I'd appreciate it if the Commission would give me an update, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0155par0313	You're a former MP, and that question you're asking is not quite right for me, Ramadan. I mean, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0154par0314	Mr. President, I asked for a reason.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0156par0315	I want to answer.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0155par0316	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0156par0317	Thank you, Mr. President. With this material that we've brought, as in current, political parties, as in trade unions, our citizens will be able to see membership through the e-state if they want to, and if they want to, they can resign from membership through the e-state, the electronic state system.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0155par0319	I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are four motions on the 24th article, the first three proposals I'm going to read are the same, and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 24 of the Law Proposal No. 196 be removed from the text of the law proposal. Diyet Dilan Taşdemir Murat Çepni Gülışstan Kılıç Koçyiğit The signatures of the other motion are: Gamze Taşcıer Müzeyyen Şevkin Emine Gülizar Emecan Suleiman Gigin Cavit Bee Saliha Sera Kadıgil Milk The signatures of the other motion are: Ayhan Erel Ümit Dikbayır Enez Kaplan Umit Ayhan Altabat Muhamet Naci Cinisli Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0157par0339	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0158par0340	Sir, the reason is...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0155par0341	I'm reading the reason: The 24th article of the proposal adds a temporary clause, entitled the declaration of those who continue to be members, to the Law of Associations 5253. This clause was included in the provision of the Article 62, which was adopted in December of December of last year, and the amendment to KHK No. 375, but was removed during the General Assembly talks on responses. This clause is largely the same as the text and reason that was removed from the Law Proposal, which had previously been discussed in the General Assembly with the number of 144 rows. In accordance with Article 23 of the Act of Associations 5253, it is mandatory that the information of those who have been accepted into association membership and those whose membership has ended should be notified to the management of property. With this clause, the ongoing memberships as of the date the regulation will take effect will also be granted a temporary six-month term in which the property will be announced to the administration. It has been published in Article 30552 of the Official Gazette, dated 1/10/2018 and has been published in Article 31/3/2005 of the amendment code, and has been included in Article 83 (8) of the Associations' regulations, published by the Ministry of Interior and published in Article 25772: In the third chapter of the Association's declaration, entitled "Information and Working Information", the third part of the third part of the document was.2. The Real Person is members of the Member States:..................... and.......... In the event of accession or dismissal or self-resolved membership, the information mentioned in the subtitled Tables of the Charter members is reported through the Association Information System (DERBIS) within 30 days of the period of giving the declaration specified in the first joke, which is not expected. NGOs who are not using derbis report this information in the same manner and in the same time period, in writing to the management of property. Under this amendment, the association is obliged to report personal information about its members to the management of property in writing or through the Associations Information System (DERBİS) in 30 days, if they add personal information about their members to the declaration and change in the condition of membership. Information to declare, the real person is for members; last name, T.C. The identity number is the occupation, the position of study, the date of entry into membership and the date of departure or dismissal. The name of the corporate personality, MERSIS no, legal status, the name of the legal representative, and the name of the representative T.C. The identity number is the date of admission and the date of dismissal from membership. This clause, which is linked to the regulation of Articles 21 and 23, organises that all members of the associations report their records in electronics within six months. Since electronic information and documents (which are subject to individuals) are personal data, in the context of the protection of personal data, the material text is in violation of the 13th, 17th and 20th Articles of the Constitution, and is also in violation of the Law on Protection of Personal Data, 6698. Since the KVK is a special law, it must be applied primarily. We do not see the effort of the Constitution to be passed by the General Assembly of Turkey in a joint agreement from the Law text 7196, which violates the Constitution's 13th, 17, 20, 33 and 90 Third Amendment clauses (2/2633) by adding the amendment to some of its main laws to the Law Proposal again, and not being passed by the Interior Commission as a result of its involvement. Ağrı MP Diriyet Dilan Taşdemir who wants to talk about the same proposals.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0159par0353	Mr. President, I salute the General Assembly. I have made a pledge on the 24th article of the package bill, which includes arrangements for the membership of the association. After expressing a few things about this substance, in fact, I'm going to continue my talk today about the country's core agenda, the corona virus. The clause is aimed at restricting the freedom of organisation and freedom of expression, one of the most fundamental constitutional rights. Even in association agencies, not with permission from the governorship, but with notification, it violates the privacy of private life when it is required to transfer the members' personal data information to electronic media immediately. So this is a tag from our point of view. We don't think the General Assembly should approve of this clause. Dear friends, we've all been talking about fighting the corona for days. Again, we're talking about social solidarity, community awareness and personal measures. Of course, these are important methods to combat corana, but what is really to be discussed is the measures taken by power. What measures does the government take, and how much confidence do these measures give it, and how much does the community relieve the public's anxiety? Since March 11th, the announcements are usually made at midnight by the power. Frankly, it's also a matter of discussion in the middle of the night. Some packages have been released, but when we look back on the contents of these packages, it's impossible to talk about something that concerns the poor, the unemployed, the workers, the women, the problems that solves them. So, when the power representatives are on television, what they mean most is: stay in the house. They're calling. Yes, it should stay in the house, but we say it again here: staying home for millions is a luxury today, so millions of people can't bring bread to their home without working, without going out for a day, facing the reality of starvation. Otherwise, stay at home. Without any support, there is really no way to make sense of it. If you tell people to stay home, then you have to pay the bill for electricity, water, natural gas, the Internet. And when you say stay home, will you pay for it? Again, will you meet your basic needs? But we know that when we look at packages or look back at your explanations, there's no such agenda. And frankly, you know very well that staying in this house doesn't mean a reality, a reality. It's just that your priority is actually to cheer up the rich. And frankly, you're good at it, and they're pretty cheerful these days. Again, dear friends, with this corona, there is no integrity policy in combating the virus. Obviously, a 60-year-old category has recently been created. There's a hate crime against people over the age of 65, and people get violent when they're out on the street. Of course, this is closely related to the wrong process. It's a perception that the old people are infecting the corona. The elderly should stay at home. It is said that the elderly live with the individuals in those homes. So, do you have any suggestions, any precautions? No, I don't. So we know that it's just about pretending to be something, like something's really being done, something's being thought about, at least in your struggle with this corona virus. Dear friends, once again, of course, if this is an important issue... we had a press conference especially for our Ağrı province, when we were not so hot and on the agenda of this coronavirus debate, we expressed our city's problems. Because Ağrı is clearly bordering Iran, because of the Gürbulak Border Gate, again, is at the top of the most sensitive cities for this virus. Again, I've actually expressed the health system of Pain for days, even over the years here, and I've brought it up, and health care is already a disaster. Thus, despite all these calls, despite our explanations, no steps have been taken, yet no measures have been taken regarding the doctor or the equipment, nor have there been any strengthening done. Dear friends, one of the most basic agendas in Ağar is refugee transitions -- in connection with this coronavirus and the epidemic. You know, our Gürbulak Border Gate is now closed, but still illegal refugees continue to pass through, no measures are taken. Once again, the local press in the city denies this news, this claim, that there is no such thing, as we call for sensitivity.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0160par0364	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0159par0365	But I was in Pain last week. On my way from Eastwhitet to Pain, an hour's journey -- an hour's journey -- I witnessed it with my own eyes, six by sevens, groups of refugees, waving their hands, especially before the police stations, where do you come from? Where are you going? Thus, it poses a serious risk for the health of refugees and for the health of the city. In that respect, refugees need safe passage, as well as the rules of 14 days must apply to refugees. So we also have a call here to the Governor of Ağrı: instead of ignoring reality, let him listen to the news, our warnings, the calls of local media and local dynamics, and let him take care of these matters at once, which is indeed a serious risk and a threat. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0161par0368	I'd like a quote from the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0162par0369	Mr. Beştaş, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0161par0372	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, we're on the General Assembly, but our phones are specifically wanted by relatives of inmates and inmates in prisons. Because of this execution package, we're all wanted separately in open prisons just now. I felt the need to make a statement. The execution package has been partially publicized, the talks have been held today, but we have already expressed in talks that this package of execution is far from meeting the current demand. I'd like to put it this way, that in Iran and Italy, tens of thousands of prisoners were released in Iran due to the outbreak of 85,000 prisoners and convicted corona. Also in Italy, at the same rate, prisons were evacuated. There are now 288,000 prisoners and prisoners held in prisons in Turkey.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0162par0375	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0161par0376	There is no obstacle to the release of prisoners. The right to live is above all rights. So if we don't develop a measure against the corona epidemic for those in prison, the lives and safety of all of them are in grave danger. Especially since the proposal envisions a reduction in drug and sexual immunity crimes, because of politics, because of their political views, because of their writing, because of their news, is not acceptable in any way in our view. Under the principle of equality of the Constitution, a reduction of execution must be applied to all. The most urgent is the release of prisoners in prisons with a special provision due to the corona epidemic.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0162par0378	Pack it up. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0161par0379	I'm finishing, I'm finishing. And according to these criminal types, judicial control measures can be ruled because the epidemic hits without separating anyone. We're against the death penalty, and I'm saying we shouldn't leave prisoners and prisoners in this unguarded environment against the risk of death. That's how I wanted to answer questions. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0163par0382	Mr. Erim, come in.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0164par0384	Thank you, Mr. President. At Nazilli State Hospital, there's no shortage of masks, gloves, caps, protective suits, anything like that. I condemn those who seek political gain by using public health as an instrument of politics. There are tailors in every hospital, great hospitals; they've been sewing since the outbreak; I don't understand what's wrong with sewing and what's wrong with it. In addition, qualified N95 masks and other clothes, other needs are constantly being reinforced. After a week of dismantling staff needs, there are currently 5,140 protective suits in storage, 6,000 masks, 474 N95 masks, 84 face shields. Every week, from the Health Department, between 5,000 and 10,000 teams arrive. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0165par0388	Thank you. Erzurum MP Cinisli, who has asked for the same motions.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0166par0394	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish God's mercy to our citizens who lost their lives in the coronavirus epidemic, and an urgent cure to our patients who are continuing their treatments. I give thanks to our paramedics, who have been fighting a great sacrifice to the coronavirus for weeks, and I salute our General Assembly and our beloved nation. There's no doubt that the health workers are dedicated, but their working conditions and the ability to use materials are a very big question. Instead of reading from here, let's make some cold-blooded assessments of the right messages sent to me by my close doctor friends. First of all, I'd like to express some of the problems that have been expressed in areas where our infected citizens are being treated, such as the hospitals' intensive care units, emergency services. I must point out that medical masks, glasses, facial protective masks, and waterproof jumpsuits are needed with standards that will not be affected by the virus. With the dismantling of necessary medical security equipment, it must be arranged to open the way for as many tests as possible. The practice of not being tested on cases without pneumonia, no CTs, threatens all of our health. If the diagnostic kits are prevented, our infected citizens will not be able to be identified in time and perhaps infect our paramedics with the virus. Unfortunately, Mr. Secretary has announced yesterday that we have infected paramedics, since there are not sufficient protection measures. To prevent this unwanted situation, it must be done in no time before enough medical equipment can be delivered to relevant locations in order to stop the spread of the epidemic. Let's not be surprised if the mask manufacturers soon give up production because of some of the government's pricing orders. The loss of preventable causes our pain. The need for respirators, diagnostic kits, the critical importance of the production of equipment within our national resources, has been realized once again in the process of saving lives. The best way to refute their claims that there are no tests to show the number of cases is to avoid testing. It also suggests that if the outbreak continues to spread, the current paramedics may seem inadequate. That's why I'm already recommending that other majors be put into a teaching program against the coronavirus. On the other hand, the Ministry of Health also requires a training session before the deployment of 32,000 new health workers. As the most effective measure against Coronavirus, we told our citizens to stay in the house. It's quite true, but we didn't say, "Stay in the government." The presidents of other countries affected by the virus are very effective every day with all responsible ministers and experts, and they hold calming press conferences and explain new measures to their people, while those in charge of power are not responsible for the death of new people every day, except for Mr. Health Minister, who have no responsibility to make any statements to our nation are upsetting and worrying us. Let God not test our nation with hunger; neither you nor we can rise from this plague. I remember very well that we did not produce when we were talking about the Ministry of Agriculture, that we could not provide our food safety only with imports, that we would starve if we didn't have dollars. Unfortunately, today, major agricultural producer countries are stopping exports of agricultural products for their own food safety. I regret to repeat, may God not test our nation with hunger because of the AK PARTY. And stay home. I don't get involved either. No government manager has the right to say that. We know what the treasure is like, I'm afraid, but in their homes, you have to make our people feel what they're doing and what they're doing to make you feel like a state the next day. I'm warning the AK PARTY government, don't push the country into economic and social straits. Dear lawmakers, a substance passed within a bag of law proposals contains regulations for renewable energy sources. Renewable energy is an energy that is unlimited in nature, which is constantly renewable, which is constantly produced from sources such as wind, geothermal, hydrogen, methcesir, currents, sun, biomass, hydraulics and waves. Renewable energy increases its importance in Turkey and the world day after day because it is both domestic product and a resource that does not end as long as it uses it. Our country has high potential for renewable energy. Taking advantage of that potential will undoubtedly help reduce energy dependency and environmental damage. Studies aimed at boosting renewable energy production are generally expected by state incentives, and private companies are expected to produce.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0167par0401	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0166par0402	Thank you, Mayor. In order to increase the share of renewable energy production in total energy production, it will take time to reach the desired conclusion of renewable energy production by private companies alone. Thus, it may be necessary for public institutions and institutions to produce a certain portion of their energy needs from renewable energy sources. Machines and devices used in renewable energy production must be made completely domestically, and measures to make it difficult to use imported machines and devices. At the end of my words, I wish our country to be rid of the coronavirus plague as soon as possible, and I salute our General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0168par0406	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the terms of the statement to the unit of associations in which the central body is located, which is included in the first joke of Article 5253, which is added to Article No. 24 of the framework of the 1 96 rows. Mehmet Mush Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bekir Kuğur Erim Vildan Yilmaz Gürel Asuman Erdoğan Emrullah İslam Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0169par0415	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit03spe0168par0416	I'm reading the reason for the motion: The burden of notification on the clause is intended to be made to the association unit, where the association centre is located. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 24th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0168par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 72nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 196. The commission is in place. There are two motions on the 25th article, and I will process them according to the order of violation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 25 of the Law Proposal to the Amendment in some Laws that are in question in 196 rows. With all due respect. MADDE 25-5/5/2005, and there are some regulations in the Law on the Chairman of IRS No. 5345. It is redesigned as follows, along with the item header. ADADDE 33 - Based on the interest of the IRS's administration of references to the General Directorate of Finances, the Director of Finances, the Director of Finances, the President of Finances, the President of Finances, the President of Finances, the President of Finances, the President of Finances, and the President of Tax Administration, according to the largest officer of the municipality, the chief of property, the chief of property and manager of the county, or the head of the tax office, or the head of the tax office of the tax office, under the interest of the chief of the tax office, or the director of the director of the collection, according to the chief of the administration of incomes, or the chief of the director of the collections, the chief of property, the chief of property and manager of the administration of the state, or the administration of the administration of the administration of the state of the state of the state, according to the administration of the state, or the administration of the administration. Gamze Taşcıer Müzeyyen Şevkin Emine Gülizar Emecan Cavit Bee Saliha Sera Kadıgil Milk Fortune Reputation Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0170par0017	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0168par0018	Ankara MP Servet Üssal wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Unisal.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0171par0021	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear President, my dear friends, I give you all my regards. Yes, our country is in serious trouble. Of course, we can see that there's a virus around a nanometer that causes the distress, but a serious economic distress followed by our friends who are interested in the economy has been told to all of you, my friends. Now, friends, especially -- I said it in my speech ten days ago -- and when we look at the television, we see that no virologist comes out, no infection specialist comes out, no medical doctor comes out, but a reporter comes out, another lawyer comes out, another non-interester, and everybody says something. There's a very serious sea of information pollution ahead of us, and I'd like to make that absolutely clear from here. Of course, the most endangered health centers at this time are healthcare workers. Yes, the problems of these health workers are very important: I've told you about this in my talks before -- we have over 40 percent of our fellow physicians in this parliament -- for some reason the law of violence in health has not been passed, my friends. This has to be removed. Look, it's a time when we need health workers so much these days. The absolute and absolute Minister of Justice, the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Health, or other concerned ministers, must come together and make the law of violence absolute in this health. Doctors need to be treated with the proper respect for medical personnel. Friends, during their professions, we should consider any violence they experience in the service presentation an occupational hazard. We need to schedule the appointment for an exam to give the patient enough time. Friends, in emergency rooms only emergency patients must be treated, first step health care must be strengthened and the chain of transport must be carried out. My dear friends, in my speech earlier, I explained to you four reasons that this tsunami that came to our country would be even more difficult, that it would be bigger. I'd like to remind you again here that these four reasons are self-inflicted and the creators of motive. First of all, friends, we've had nearly 21,000 citizens from the community. About 10,000 of our citizens went straight to their homeland, not quarantined. Umre visits occurred about a month ago. This tribulation has existed since December, creating pandemics in the world. There's trouble with the Religion Work here again. Second problem, delayed distress, this soft belly, I'd like to say. No one wants to say anything about Friday prayers, folks. We all know that a great many of our citizens are really gathered here throughout Turkey.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0172par0030	You can't go on Friday.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0171par0031	It's a serious problem. And on that, the Religion is late, my friends.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0172par0032	There's no Friday, there's no going.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0173par0033	No Friday, no Friday.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0171par0034	She just got out, I just said that 15 days ago, come on guys, it's just us.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0173par0035	There's been no Friday for two weeks.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0171par0036	The third problem is the number of tests explained by the beloved Minister of Health. Fifteen days later, we're still 20 grand in 15 days, guys. You know, maybe we have a corona in our system right now. For him, our dear Health Minister, who has no complaints, says 15,000 tests a day, but we're still in the 20s in 15 days. The fourth problem is, guys, it's funny how games don't get postponed, and I don't get it. I don't know what the President of the Football Federation is for. Guys, the games aren't postponed, look, football players, trainers, Fatih Terim, that's, what happened to everybody? He's caught in the Corona case. Now, there were about a thousand people in the Galatasaray-Basiktaş game that day watching the games outside, friends, in the game. How did they get in? There's 5,000 people out there waiting for football players, and everyone's waiting to watch these football players again in the cafes. Dear friends, we're in a lot of trouble, but we need to deal with this... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear President...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0174par0041	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0171par0042	Yes, my dear President. Now, of course, I've always said that this disease doesn't distinguish the rich, the poor, friends, we're all under this dome. It created a pandemic, we should all be united. As a result of this merger, we have some tasks to attend to. The Council of Economics hasn't met for 11 years, friends, it has to be collected, absolute and absolute. Paramedics will be working overtime, no deadlines. The need for accommodation must be taken care of as soon as possible. Yes, we have to win the military hospitals back absolutely because, look, we've forgotten the war because of the corona; our children, our children, our children, have just been martyred. Friends, in the temporarily closed workplaces -- look, it's very important, I said the crisis is in the economy -- rent expenses must be paid in full by the Treasury and Finance Ministry. Employees' wages should be paid from the Unemployment Fund. The workers' credit cards and bank loans must be postponed for three months without interest. Farmers' debts must be structured. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My dear President, there are 2-3 items left. Thank you. Payday teachers and public-educated schoolteachers have lost their pay, they're miserable. Friends, for the use of loans for small and medium enterprises, there must be a write-off. The bank loans of sectors such as tourism, entertainment, accommodation must be rearranged. Eight million unemployed friends. In this sense, all public-private subsidiaries must be postponed for a year and guarantees must be converted to a month.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0175par0048	Congressman, thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0171par0049	The big airport, the big hospital, the big bridges, the roads -- if it's self-determination, let the government -- we don't know how much you've given them -- we don't know how much -- absolute postponement or a year's pay, friends. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0175par0052	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the 25th amendment of Law Proposal No. 196 is changed to, and,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, Diyet Dilan Taşdemir Gülültan Koçyiğit Murat Çepni Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0176par0061	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0175par0062	This is Mr. Sevin Coşkun, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Coshkun.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0177par0065	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 25th Amendment. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, while the world has been discussing the fight and the measures to be taken against the coronavirus, it is unfortunate that yesterday the will of the Kurdish people was taken away again. The trustees were appointed to eight of our municipalities yesterday, along with the trustee robberies that began in August. We don't accept this trustee, this willpower, as we did yesterday, and we won't tomorrow. There is hatred of Kurds. We ask those who oppose us when we say: Whatever the processes, whatever the circumstances, what is it that a government that ignores Kurdish will is not a Kurdish enemy? Dear lawmakers, the coronavirus continues to spread throughout the world, and it stands before us as an example of global desperation. The emergence of the virus, spreading and causing the deaths of thousands of people is also a serious systemic problem. With unlimited growth and profit logic, the world system destroys the environment beyond tolerance, consumes its nutrients, moves on a path that will destroy all living things, including humans. All of this logic and practice prepares the basis for the emergence of viruses such as corona. The Corona virus will not be the first, nor will it be the end of the world's progress on this road. Those who prepare the ground for the release of the virus are also causing it to spread; urbanization is at the beginning of it. Tens of millions of people are condemned to live under unhealthy conditions in the same city as economic, social policies, leading to the spread of epidemics and increasing deaths. The way health is marketed around the world, as in our country, deepens problems instead of solving them. State-corporate policies, which whip unlimited consumption, are causing the virus to spread rapidly. In short, friends, a problem-making system does not have the ability to solve problems. This unresolved system manipulates people with conspiracy theories and distances them from the truth. The reality is that the economic, ecological, social options that are going to change this system should be taken into account, and the solution should be from the root, not the surface, not the moment. To do so, we need strong organization and solidarity. In Coronavirus days, we re-expose the alternative over and over again. This process we're in proves to us how important and vital the democratic, social and ecological paradigm is. The nation also shows that governments have nothing to offer for the future of mankind. Dear lawmakers have announced a package in order to address the vital and economic problems created by the virus in our lives. So, whose problems will this package solve? He solved the problem of the great equity owners he called the president. He still didn't solve the problem of poor people who had to work in factories, set up shop in the streets, collected paper, and tried to go to work on buses like fish stacks. If he didn't work one day, with the bills piling up at the end of the month, the hungry didn't solve the problem of millions who had to spend what he had won in the morning and the evening. Dear lawmakers, we have been briefed as partial measures against the virus with a series of statements made by the Ministry of Health in our country. In this regard, we would like to consider the very important suggestions of health professional organisations. The government should be in constant communication with the Turkish Medical Association and many health organizations whose name we cannot name. We think it is extremely important for human health to include these organisations in the measures to be taken. As part of these measures, prisons play a critical role. Those who believe that prisons are isolated and that there is no danger of the virus are wrong. On the contrary, they're the most risky places in the process. Because prisons are far above their capacity with the number of prisoners and prisoners that have over 300,000. Experts explain that social distance has to be three feet [1 m] in order to avoid the virus, while people live together in the wards, which poses serious risks. Also, in prisons, healthy dietary conditions are inadequate, and access to hot water and hygiene materials is restricted for various reasons. Therefore, without further apocalypse or even thinking about it -- without the risk of getting infected in prisons -- political power should pave the way for the release of women who remain in prisons with their patients, elderly prisoners and children, and delay their sentences. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm picking it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0178par0075	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0177par0076	Otherwise, they will be responsible for every evil plot in the prison. Whether we're under the Coronavirus truth or not, we'd like to remind you once again that there is nothing human or conscientious about keeping sick prisoners and prisoners in prisons. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0178par0079	I now submit the motion to your votes: Those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are 3 motions on the 26th article. Since the first two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process these motions together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 26th amendment of Law Proposal 196 be removed from the text of the law proposal. Diyet Dilan Taşdemir Murat Çepni Oya Ersoy Şevin Coşkun Gülıştan Kılıç Koçyiğit The signatures of the other motion are: Gamze Taşcıer Müzeyyen Şevkin Emine Gülizar Emecan Cavit Bee Saliha Sera Kadıgil Milk Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0179par0094	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0178par0095	İzmir MP Murat Çepni wants to talk about proposals. Here you go, Mr. Chepni.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0180par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. The General Assembly and our valued people have been discussing renewable energy for a long time. Of course, we're not against principle, but as in any case, we're interested in who has the right tool. Renewable energies -- the HESEs that have dried the rivers in the Black Sea -- and the dam itself, which has left twelve thousand years of history under water in Hasankeyf. At the same time, the JESEs, which have poisoned the Izwari, the Aegean region -- all of the Aegean region -- are also entering the renewable energy category. So when it comes to the AKP, it is naturally well known to our people what vehicle is functioning. Pir Sultan Abdal. Imagine a power that knows how to create opportunities from every crisis, every crisis, every virus; that's exactly the kind of power the AKP is in. We will continue to say, "The king is naked today, just as he was yesterday." We're in conditions where 6,500 people have died of the virus, died of the coronavirus, but we're also experiencing a crisis of capitalism all over the world, a crisis of decaying capitalism. In Turkey, we continue to fight against AKP policies, the only representative of decaying capitalism. Now, look, dear friends, the outbreak of coronavirus is rapidly climbing in Turkey. The answer to power is prayer, patience, and cologne. Currently, the number of people who can be shut down in Turkey is 37 per cent, and the number of people who have to work is 63 per cent. The government says to stay in the homes. Yes, it's true, you have to stay at home, but the power says stay home, Turkey, but keep working; stay home, Turkey, and the workers will be left to die. That's the basic policy of power. Dear friends, we are facing a package received from the bosses of 20 per cent, which is paid by workers of 80 per cent. The same government forbids people over 65 to go out on the street. Look, there are 7 million old people in this category, and only 1 million of them live alone. I mean, 6 million elderly, over 65, living in a house with family. The AKP is deceiving the public, the AKP is trying to manage this coronavirus process with a hypocritical policy; it is essentially trying to save itself. Look, AKP power is an opportunistic power. The AKP continues to attack the municipalities of Kurdish people, Peoples' Democratic Party, HDP, and Turkey, as the outbreak of coronavirus continues throughout the world and Turkey. He's attacking Batman City Hall, throwing trustees at Batman City Hall. The city of Batman had announced the day before that it would not receive payment of water bills, and HDP has revealed lies to this trustee policy yesterday and to this day. For AKP, the whole world could be torn apart by the epidemic, the epidemic of Turkey -- the virus epidemic -- could kill our people, but it's okay, the problem is the destruction of HDP municipalities for AKP. Look, since they've been sharing today, in the process, there's been an investigation into 316 thousand people. Interior Minister Sulejman Noble has recently threatened companies that store masks. We don't have a mask problem here. It's called. Now, it's a wound that bleeds prisons when it comes to public health. AKP opportunism is coming up here. All over Turkey, what does AKP practice, AKP coupger opportunism do while all democratic forces wait for their prisons to be evacuated? He hasn't been in our way yet, but as far as it's concerned, he's holding out political prisoners. AKP opportunism and coupism are public-hating politics. Our people do not have to; the working class, the workers, our people are not helpless. The working class, the workers, they're rioting, but with the solidarity we've established against this, we can break this rotten order of persecution. Stay home. Turkey's slogan is a slogan based entirely on lies.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0181par0107	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0180par0108	Dear friends, the working class continues to work. The solution we propose, the solution we insist on, is to provide all employees with a paid permit, free of charge of all health care. What we call our people is not private, but public health; not discrimination, equality; not individualism; sharing; not selfishness, solidarity; not capitalism; we call socialism. And we call upon our people to promote, fight, and raise the flag of struggle against this rotten order. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0182par0112	I'm reading the reason for the other motion in the same context: In the 26th article of the proposal, the multilateral legislation on renewable energy sources is combined in one law, and the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources is taking new broad powers to speed up renewable energy investments. The ministry will now be able to determine the price of the ceiling for renewable energy production facilities on Turkish lira. The ministry will no longer be subject to any legal restrictions, contrary to the Constitution, when setting and updating the ceiling. This clause is related to the 35th and 37th article of the proposal. With this clause, similar issues in two laws regarding renewable energy sources (YEKA) are collected in one law, giving the Ministry new powers to determine and accelerate the YEKA fields. With this provision, the ceiling price application in YEKA tenders will be done on the basis of the TL, the article (EPK) Law 6446 (EPK) Article 5/12), the article (13) in its jokes (13) the articles of the Renewable Energy Resources' purposeful use of the Law (EKA Law) will be completed by moving to Article 4 (EECA Law). As a result of the merger, Article 5/ (13) of Article 6446 in Article 35 of the proposal has been lifted from effect, in Article 37, which references in the original article refer to in the new arrangement. With the addition of the first joke, the Ministry will decide to establish YEKA areas on private property with the new authority it will receive, with its new authority. According to Article 10 of Publicisation Act 2942, for three years from now, if it is not submitted to the court's deed administration, which will be issued in the name of the Treasury on the basis of the publicisation fee, it will be removed from the record by the provision of this deed. This provision is "disputed in terms of the right of property" that finds its definition in Article 35 of the Constitution. The price of the ceiling for the existing YEKA facilities, which are based on the addition (l) and (II) ruler of Law No. 5346, has been changed. For each renewable energy resource field, the lowest price to be offered by the Ministry on the price of the ceiling, according to the additional (l) and (II) ruler, will be applied during the duration of the competition conditions for that renewable energy resource; the contest for renewable energy sources will now be made through the government's ceiling price application, which will be set by the Ministry on the price of TL before it is attached to the exponential table. The lowest price to be made based on the price of the price on the price of the dollar in the tender will be valid for the duration of the competition terms, as part of the Renewable Energy Resource Support Mechanism. The ministry will no longer adhere to the extremities in the legislation, while setting this ceiling price. With these provisions, the guarantees of the purchase price for renewable energy investments will now be given in TL instead of the exchange genre. However, the price of ceilings in the current tenders will be calculated according to the limits of the laws attached to the rules, while there will be no restrictions in the new situation, and it will be the Ministry of Appreciation for updating prices of ceiling prices and tenders. The ceiling in the article is contrary to the rule of law, the rule of law by giving the administration broad discretion without legal constraints, the principle of law which is contrary to the principle of specificity, the principle of predictability, the Article 2 of the Constitution, and the rule of non-transmission of the legislative authority, and the provisions of Article 167, which governs competition. That is why the motion is made. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment to the amendment of some Laws in the first part of Article 26 of the Law Proposal has been changed "with the word "reorganized. " Ayhan Erel Ümit Dikbayır Enez Kaplan Hope White Hussein Örs Ayhan Altıntaş Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0183par0130	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0182par0131	He wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Anres.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0184par0134	Mr. President, I've been promised on behalf of the PARTI Group on Article 26 of the proposed law. I salute you all with the utmost respect. I give a big hand to the health workers who are struggling with Corona's scourge, who are working hard in the process. I would also like to thank our friends, who are part of other public institutions and organizations, and our members of the NGO, before you, God help and help, and give them strength and strength. In the process we're dealing with the Corona virus, I'm going to continue with the awareness that our unity and unity are more important than any period. From here, I would also like to address our citizens: let them heed the warnings of our Ministry of Health and other authorities. Especially those of our older 65-year-olds with curfews, let's make sure we don't hurt them, patiently, respectfully, and kindly remind them to comply with the restrictions, and let's take great care of that. I believe that by God's permission, we will be able to overcome this affliction by holding hands and by following the warnings of the experts with great care. Yes, the corona epidemic has been the greatest global threat since World War II, and our country faces this threat. We all agree that we should take economic measures while fighting the Coronan plague. Today, valuable friends, food exports and logistics have been negatively affected by the process. Many transports are loaded, and the borders are closed, so they're waiting. The situation of companies in these sectors must be observed closely, and it must be implemented immediately to delay loans and provide financial support, particularly in connection with loan payments. Dear friends, the only way out of this epidemic is to face facts first. AS A GOOD PARTY, our responsibility to our country and our nation is to deal with this matter with courage and to guide us to make amends and failures. Mr. President has publicly announced a package of economic measures called an economic stabilisation shield. I have to say here that the package does not include every member of our nation, nor is it socially fair. An economic package that predicts cologne for citizens can't satisfy the needs of our nation during this delicate period of time, friends. We all know that the negative economic effects of the Corona outbreak first appear in the world's fragile economies. The Turkish economy, unfortunately, has been one of the most fragile economies in a while. When we look at it, we see that the economic measures revealed are a reflection of a day-saving understanding. Dear lawmakers, in this package, I'm afraid our business as a result of the developing pandemic conditions and quarantine practices has not been allowed to catch up after the process. In order to pay their delayed public obligations, they must be allowed to instal at least a year's notice. An important concern about the package is that the financial burden of the crisis will be heavily placed on the backs of SMEs and employees. However, it is vital to ensure that businesses survive during these difficult times, as well as to ensure that the revenue flow for the household is continued without being cut off. In this framework, the market must be maintained by providing financial support for consumers as well. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to point out one more thing.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0185par0144	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0184par0145	Two billion dollars' worth of cash for needy families is positive but inadequate. The fact that there's only $2 billion left for needy families in a $100 billion support package, and there's some question about transparency in the distribution of it, says that first and foremost, it's incompatible with our understanding of the social state, and I salute you all with my deepest respect.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0185par0147	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the matter is accepted. There are 2 motions on Article 27. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 27 of Law Proposal No. 196 be removed from the text of the law proposal. Diyet Dilan Taşdemir Gülültan Koçyiğit Murat Çepni Nuran İmir Şevin Coşkun Oya Ersoy Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0186par0158	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0185par0159	Istanbul MP Oya Ersoy wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0187par0162	Mr. President, I salute the General Assembly. Now, we're going through a historical process. When we look at world history, we see that pandemic diseases hurt more than war, and that societies are creating serious, radical changes in their political, cultural, social, and economic structure. And we, today, all the peoples of the world, are faced with a threat created by capitalism, which is for profit. It's a vital threat. This disaster, the threat we call the ▪corona virus, is not spontaneous. Where did he first come from? He's out of Wuhan. What's so special about Wuhan? It's a production center for cheap labor, Wuhan. And we're surprised how it spreads so far. In fact, we should be surprised that the world's governments have not taken the necessary precautions in the face of a pandemic that they can predict will spread so far across the world. Now let's go back to our country. It is said that from the beginning: we have taken all the necessary precautions and everything is under our control. No, you have not taken the necessary precautions in the face of this epidemic that has been seen all over the world since January, and nothing is under your control. And on top of that, with 21,000 people coming into this country, especially with mass arrivals, it's completely out of your control. Now, the public has been locked into the screens twice to listen to the measures taken by power. The first time you asked for patience, pray. You said, "Pray for patience." Then you talked about facilitating housing loans, a VAT reduction in flights, a delay in housing tax in the conditions under which the public is shut down. Dear MPs, dear friends, banks, hosts, companies that distribute energy and gas do not accept prayers. When you were on the screen the second time, the Minister of Health told you to declare your own State of Emergency. Now, if a worker doesn't declare his own State of Emergency and go to work, will you stop him from getting fired? All opposition organisations are now forbidden to be fired. It says, "We say," and this Parliament must take it out. Or will you stop banks if a credit card debtor doesn't declare his own State of Emergency and pay off bank loans on the matter of interest? No. Dear MPs, we're saying that a slogan has been produced, we're going to beat it together. In this union, we're going to lose people, no workers, no workers, no women, no pensioners, no farmers, no workers, no immigrants, Kurds? The Kurds are gone for the second time.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0188par0168	There's no ethnic distinction.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0187par0169	Look, you've confiscated eight municipalities during this panoramic outbreak, you've stolen, you've appointed trustees. It's not a classic trustee appointment, it's not just an extortion of the will of the people. You're telling the Kurds that we don't care about your health, we're not interested. This is the message. This is different from the trustee appointments that have been made so far, and in any case, we will insist on disemboweling Kurd (Kurdish) and exploiting the worker in unlimited support of capital. That economic stability shield you've explained is a shield that you've given to the capital completely. When you say stay home, you have no suggestions for workers, electricity, gas bills; you have no suggestions for consumer loans, credit card debts, and 7.5 million unemployed in this country. You have no suggestions on how to live in the home of these 7.5 million unemployed. Now, if we don't take the necessary precautions... yeah, we're all going to beat it together... this epidemic doesn't hit us all the same way, it's going to become a common clinical case, starting with the poor, and I'm warning you from here. We need to look at examples of what's being done here in the world. One, transparency is essential, common test kits are essential. So far, we still don't understand why these tests aren't common. Proclaiming curfews isn't the only solution here. How many people are tested every day? In what provinces, how many have been identified as Covid-19? How many people are in which hospitals and how many are in intensive care? Has anyone ever recovered and been sent home?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0189par0172	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0187par0173	And it is imperative that the hospital, the market, the cargo, the mail, the pharmacy employees are tested in their area, starting with health workers in contact with the corona virus. The improvement of health care is essential to maintaining public health care. It says here that all measures have been taken for healthcare workers. No, friends, we're all getting complaints about this. If you don't protect the healthcare workers, you can't protect those who fight the front line against the corona, you can't protect the public's health rights. And while you're melting to come to Parliament here, when you see it as a danger, go to the health workers and fight the corona in front of the hospitals. You can't say that. And dismissals must be banned. The basic human rights, electricity, water, natural gas, must be provided to the public without money. And rents must be postponed, not paid in the process. The source? There's a source. And the last word from this place was either socialism or barbarism. I'm saying today it's either socialism or death.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0190par0177	What socialism?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0187par0178	Look at Cuba, Cuba! Look at Cuba, when everyone's running away, he's sending them.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0191par0179	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. The other motion has been drawn. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on Article 28 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the terms of Law Proposal No. 196 shall be changed to, or changed to,,,,,,,,, in Article 28 of Article 28 of the Common Law Proposal. Diyet Dilan Taşdemir Gülışstan Kılıç Koçyiğit Nuran İmir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0192par0190	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0191par0191	Muş MP Gülüstan Kılıç Koçyiğit wants to talk about the motion.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0193par0193	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Now we're talking about Covid-19. I'd rather deal with this problem than the material I'm talking about. My friends have also stated that this is a result of capitalism, the exploitation of humanity, nature, everything, and today the whole world is questioning the capitalist system in which we live, and its neoliberal policies. Sadly, capitalism, neoliberism, in our country, has become much scarier when meeting with AKP's religious leaders, religious policies. Now, while I was talking, I mentioned that the paramedics, the paramedics, couldn't find a mask. So you turned around and said, "There's a mask." If there's a mask, why do you go to stocks and raid? Why are you threatening to seize it? Or why did the masks that were never planted end up in the tailor's? Look, what's the result of your AKP's policy of transmutation in health? You've brought a system based on performance. Health care was a team service, and you divided this team, and you started giving the team bonuses, bonuses, piece by piece. You turned the hospital into a business facility, you turned the patient into a client, and you shut down public hospitals in the city centers, and you built huge city hospitals to make money for your fellow contractors. It takes almost a day to get from one unit to another. Today, through this system, is it difficult to deal with Covid-19? It's hard. Because, in fact, you've liquidated the public health system, privatized it, and pursued your followers. Now, what did the Ministry of Health Koronavirus Science Board say as part of the fight against Covid-19? He made a statement, and he said, "We're declaring private hospitals, foundation hospitals a pandemic hospital." Right, it's a good decision. Right now, do patients who go to a private hospital with a Covid-19 application ask for accession? It's wanted. How does a patient from Covid-19 get to go and sleep there? He won't be able to. What's it gonna be? There are many examples; the patient is leaving, and he's asked to sign a receipt in the emergency room to rest. He doesn't take patients, he's put in an ambulance, he's taken to another hospital. That hospital gets infected, the ambulance gets infected, the emergency room he goes to gets infected again. Now, not like this. If you're really going to make these hospitals a pandemic hospital, come -- there's an opportunity -- you've got them all in front of you -- and as hospitals for the community, present them both in Covid-19, and later in public service, but would you do that? You can't, because your Minister of Health is also the boss of a chain of hospitals. How could you do that?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0194par0199	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0193par0200	The second thing: now university hospitals were the most important institutions in the fight against this Covid-19. So, are college hospitals able to provide normal health care, let alone fight this epidemic right now? No. From the dosimeter to the glove, from the injector to everything, they write the spending material into the patient's hand, and when the patient goes and brings them in, the diagnosis and treatment are the only things that can be done. What are you doing with all this in the middle? You're applauding the paramedics. A round of applause is very good, but what else do we want? If you're really thinking about healthcare workers, speed up the supply of protective material. Listen to science. We don't have a vaccine facility in this country. Even in Ottoman times, in the early years of the republic, vaccines were produced, thanks to you, they can no longer be produced. Then activate the scientific facilities quickly. Make sure they have food and shelter. Stop health workers from going to work on public transport, assign special services.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0195par0202	It's nine o'clock, give it up for the paramedics, it's nine o'clock.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0193par0203	When these people are off-duty, go to their homes and prevent them from infecting their loved ones and other people along the way. No? Bring in 3,600 additional indicators. If you want to make a gesture in these difficult days, for example, bring in 3,600 additional indicators that health workers look forward to. You set up the 184 SABI line. THE SABIM line serves only in Turkish in this country. Get the SABIM line equipped very quickly, especially in Kurdish and Arabic, to serve in all other languages living in Turkey. What else can you do? Other than that, you need to associate with trade organisations, trade unions in the field, and as a sign of this partnership, you need to contact them. Look, what do you call health workers at this time - prepare to stay in the hospital for 14 days? What does that mean, a 14-day shift? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0196par0208	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0193par0209	We need to monitor the pressure, the intensity of work, the pressure of these 14-day shifts, both depressing and long hours of work on health workers. If you want to reduce this density -- the Minister has now announced that you are hiring 32,000 health workers -- you need to return the health worker you exported with 15,000 NGOs quickly. If you do these things and, of course, take more scientific, more publicist measures besides cologne and mask, in fact, in the interest of society, this society will, of course, defeat the COVID-19 virus. And last but not least, the prisons are the most important, the most risky group for the spread of this virus, as well as the rate of filling and feeding and housing. Open the gates of the prisons as soon as possible, and give all people their right to live, especially political prisoners. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0197par0213	I now submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are 3 motions on the 29th article. The first two motions I'm going to read are the same, so I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 29 of Law Proposal 196 be removed from the text of the law proposal. Diryet Dilan Taşdemir Murat Çepni Nuran İmir Gülıştan Kılıç Koçyiğit Hüseyin Won't Run Şevin Çoshkun The signatures of the other motion are: Gamze stoner Cavit Bee Museyen Sevkin Emine Gülizar Emecan Saliha Sera Kadıgil Milk Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0198par0229	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0197par0230	Şırnak MP Hüseyin would not run away if he wanted to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Never Run.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0199par0233	Mr. President, I salute you, all of you, the esteemed MPs and those watching us on their screens. Of course, according to the agreed-upon bag law, the 29th article is related to the unemployment fund. In fact, we have another demonstration of how the unemployment fund is being drawn to the capital class. But I'd like to ask the authorities a few questions about the outbreak of coronavirus on the agenda. Why can't a common test be done when 500,000 test kits have been sold to the United States? Why are we on the road to Italy when there's a common and aggressive test of South Korea and Singapore? How do you expect the public to declare their own State of Emergency by announcing the support package? More death? Declare your own State of Emergency to the public. Can these people delay their own bills, their own loans, their own rent? Of course not. Therefore, the needs of the public must be prioritized, and new economic policies must be brought up immediately. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, our friends have said so many times in the morning, and I'm afraid I can tell you that the AKP has done its best in lawlessness and injustice again on this coronavirus agenda. Well, as of yesterday, eight other municipalities have been appointed trustees, so 40 of our municipalities so far have been appointed trustees. What does that mean? In fact, this people knew how you wanted to assign trustees to HDP municipalities, Kurds' will. I'd like to share with you some information about a case, which is in the file of the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office of Cizre. These are indications that the conspiracy and illegal evidence that was set up for our Chief Mayor in Cizre is being collected. Two days before the election, on 29/3/2019, Cizre Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, Cizre District Security Directorate Security Bureau Chief, and again to write to the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office of Cizre District Security Directorate, asking for information on our Co-Chair to be collected. So, how does he want these? The fact that the suspect, whose information has been written as the basis of the investigation carried out in our Public Prosecutor's Office, has spoken in the election process and may have spoken after the local elections, is still being sent to the file immediately. Again, this is the same way that the TEM Bureau has been asked to examine its relatives to the fourth degree. These are the information and documents in the file concerning the appointment of trustees, which have been processed by the fourth degree relatives. What does this contact say in the system interrogation? The files have been filed on the uncle of his sister-in-law, Mehmet Kırığ. What else was processed? Again, the brother of our mayor's sister-in-law, so to speak, outside the file. Again, the information of our mayor's uncle has entered. So, dear friends, these files aren't even against the law anymore, they're immoral, they're immoral, they're even against conscience. Come on, they're gonna pay for this one day. The law, yes, sometimes sleeps; in fascism, in authoritarian governments, sometimes the law sleeps, but never dies. Those who prepare these files, those who give them instructions, will pay sooner or later. As a friend of yours who lived in bunkers in the 90s, who's been through dozens of autopsies, I'll tell you this: while we're constantly fighting for life together, while we're constantly fighting for democracy, you're reversing Kurds, you're ignoring the will of the Kurds. It's not going to give this country anything, not to you, not to our common future. Even as we're dealing with the virus today, you've struck the will of the Kurds, it's unacceptable. You know what the Kurds think? I'll tell you: I'm Kurdish, and I think you're hostile to me, and I'm Kurdish, and I think these policies are anti-Kurdish. The more you do it, the more you do it, the more we've lost our lives over the years of violence.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0200par0239	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0199par0240	The more you do, the more you insist on the policy of violence, the more the resources of this country will be spent on the real needs of the people, while unfortunately the tank, the ball, the rifle, and these security policies. Guys, we don't deserve this, none of us do. When we talk about life together, when we talk about a common future together, it's unacceptable for us to have this country's democracy exposed to this situation and to have democracy so overwhelmed. I'll tell you: these policies are anti-Kurdish, these policies are a sign of Kurdish hostility. ..... [[x]] That's it. My respects.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0201par0246	What was your motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0199par0247	Our proposal was fascism.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0202par0248	Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu wants to talk about the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0203par0251	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this is an important clause, which I just stated during my speech on the department. Between 2016 and 19, the incentive for 5510 (s) here has been applied to each of the employees working in each business, and yet it has not been successful. Now, it's being brought in at 75 liras starting at 2020. The conditions of 2020 are far more difficult, troubling than the conditions after 2016. You see, it's almost the Third World War conditions, I hope it doesn't last too long. Now, under such circumstances -- no matter how long it takes -- it will certainly affect businesses, markets, citizens, employees. Under the circumstances, there's no way that the 75 lira substituted 150 liras would be curable. Look, I'll give you the figures on the number of businesses: despite 150 lira incentives in August 2017, the number of jobs within the scope of 4/A, which we know as the SGK, is 1,800,000,000, and that's still 1,800,000,000 over December 2019, and it doesn't change in any way. The reason for the number of employees -- which is to increase employees -- is that at the end of 2017, there are 14 million 447,817 employees under the SGK, as of the end of 2017. At the end of 2018, 14 million, 229, 170. 14 million goes from 447 thousand to 14 million, 229 thousand, despite this incentive, despite 150 lira incentives. In the end of 2019, 14 million falls to 314, which is a continuous downed SGK, with mandatory insurance workers under 4/A. There's a similar situation within 4/B, which is the tradesman's market, which is what's under BUG-KUR. At the end of 2017, the number of 2 million 777 000 fell to 2 million 758 000 at the end of 2019. Dear friends, high-value lawmakers, at 150 lira, the incentive was not only a difference in the number of businesses, but the number of employees fell. It's not incentive, it doesn't mean anything, and we've discussed it in the Commission, and we're paying close to $10 billion a year, and we're not getting paid for it. What we're doing has to be rational, there has to be a consequence. Now, we're lowering it to 75 liras, and we're looking for a solution under much more difficult circumstances. It's not possible, it doesn't mean anything. This needs to be pulled, rearranged, rationally rearranged. In these coronavirus conditions, as I said, world war three conditions have formed, countries have closed down, there's so much unemployment, there's so much trouble. The money we give, everything we do, it has to mean something, we have to do it on purpose, it has to be rational. Why are we doing this? For us, money is scarce at this time. Why are we doing this? At least $5 billion a year, $6 billion a year, like this? It'll be for nothing, it doesn't mean anything. It needs to be saved here, rationalized, these resources. So, as a lawmaker, as a legislature, this needs to be reconsidered. I know I'm wasting my time, there's no political will here, there's no one here to do it, there's no one to listen to us, no one to understand. We're talking in vain as legislatures, but we have to at least say these things in order to get it into the transcripts, or else we can't get this system to work, to do meaningful things, to deal with this crisis, I'm afraid. Well, I hope so, but I'm afraid I see it as a bit of a nuisance. Of course, this request, this righteous request, will not be fulfilled, it will be a problem. I salute you all on this occasion.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0204par0257	Mr. President, I have a brief request.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0205par0258	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0204par0261	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the HDP MP who just spoke from the bench, last used a statement in Kurdish. Of course, since I don't speak Kurdish, I don't understand. Then I spoke to my friends, and the expression he used was: "We are Kurds, and you are our enemies."
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0206par0262	You are enemies. He said, "You are enemies." He did not say.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0204par0263	Now, who are you, who are we?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0207par0264	Who said that?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0204par0265	Who are you, who are we?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0208par0266	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0204par0267	Guys, we have Kurdish lawmakers.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0209par0268	Who's the enemy?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0208par0269	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0204par0270	What did he say? We are Kurds, and you are our enemies.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0208par0271	We're Kurds, you're making enemies with us.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0204par0272	Now, friends, who are you, who are we? Is that a statement?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0210par0273	It's racist, it's racist, it's terrible.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0211par0274	Disgraceful!
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0212par0275	Tell him he's sorry.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0213par0276	We'll talk about unity, unity, brotherhood, peace. Do you guys use that expression? If it's not, then fix it. Oh, come on, guys. Look, it hurts the country's future, it hurts its unity, don't do it, stop it, it's not right.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0214par0278	Okay, I know, I listened, he didn't say that.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0215par0279	I'm afraid they're doing the most racist of them all.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0213par0280	There's no such thing, guys. What did he say, then he'll explain.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0214par0281	He said: "We are Kurds, you are making enemies of us."
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0213par0283	You are also our enemy. That is the expression.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0214par0284	No, you're our enemy. He didn't say. You dialed it wrong, he didn't say that.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0216par0286	You are Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) people, so it is done because you are PKK members, not because you are Kurds.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0213par0287	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0217par0288	Go ahead.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0213par0289	Mr. President, look, I want to say something.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0218par0290	It's against the PKK.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0213par0291	Now, you criticize policies, you don't like economic policies, so that's debatable, but this mentality, it's not right.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0218par0292	They're hiding behind this.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0213par0293	What if we were to lock up 83 million together, embrace it, you, my friends, put dynamite under this country. You won't get away with it. And we, the Kurdish citizens of this country, in my sincerest sense here, if there's any difference between us and another citizen... we've shown that in our approach so far, there's no difference. But with this mentality, we have our own struggle with this mentality, and this mentality is that we will not leave this country.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0219par0298	I submit the same motions to your votes:
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0220par0299	Don't leave him here, let him take it back, if that's what he said.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0221par0300	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0220par0301	If he said something like that, let him take it back, don't leave it here. Take it off the books.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0221par0302	Do you speak Kurdish? Do you speak Kurdish? On something you don't know.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0222par0303	Congressmans, wait a minute... I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0223par0305	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0222par0306	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0223par0307	Let our disciple explain for himself the sentence he made in Kurdish, there is a false translation. So we know what we're saying.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0224par0308	You don't speak Kurdish, but you create perception.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0225par0309	Whoever's talking, I'm telling them to take it back.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0226par0310	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0227par0311	I won't give you my word if you're going to make a statement in the direction Mr. Mush said.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0226par0312	No, I'll explain what I'm saying, Mr. President, it's twisted here.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0227par0313	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0226par0316	Thank you, Mr. President. My speech was all clear. I insisted on telling you how these policies feel about us, and I told you that these policies are anti-Kurdish.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0228par0318	Anti-PKK, Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0226par0319	Again, that's exactly what I said in Kurdish, I said these policies are Kurdish enemies.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0228par0320	He's not a Kurdish enemy, he's an enemy of the PKK.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0229par0321	It's for traitors, enemies of the country.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0226par0322	There's no need to twist it, I've made it clear, I've made it clear. That's all my explanation is. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0230par0325	Wrong translation.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0226par0326	Whoever dialed it got it wrong.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0231par0327	You only know Kurdish.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0230par0328	No, check the records.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0231par0329	Come on, guys, it's wrong.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0232par0333	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the second sentence of Article 29 (b) of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws of 196, we propose and propose that the declaration be replaced in the form of the second sentence. We'll pay our respects. Ali Muhittin Taşdoğan Sefer Aycan Argin Erdem Ayşe Sibel Ersoy Metin Nurullah Sazak Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0233par0342	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0232par0343	It's Heromarash MP Sefer Aycan who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Aycan.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0234par0346	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion. I salute you. In Article 29, we find it true that employers are supported on minimum wage, regardless of sector distinction, as the National Movement Party, and we think these supports should continue to increase. We support the employer, not only the worker, but especially our tradesman, and then we say that we will support any support that comes in advance as the National Party of Action. We're going through an extraordinary time. At this extraordinary time, we must all stick together and get through these difficult times together. It's already been 15 days, and we don't think it's right for some private sector employers to hire workers. This is the day of solidarity, the day of unity. So we especially recommend that employers not hire workers as the National Movement Party. We'll all get through these hard times together. Our government supports employers and tradesmen in this regard, and this law also supports them. With these supports, we feel that this offer will be a positive arrangement. Together, in unity and unity, we hope to get through these troubled days. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to talk to you a little bit about the coronavirus. Now, first of all, I want to show you something. In the epidemiological analysis of the epidemic -- maybe a little small, but -- there's been an increase in cases over the last three days, but I'd like to point out that this is not a geometric increase. In fact, infectious diseases increase geometrically, exponentially, but according to the World Health Organization's data, the increases in Turkey are currently not increasing geometrically in the last three days. This is a positive thing; it shows that measures are useful, that infections are at least reduced. In the coronavirus epidemis we're experiencing, the coronavirus is a highly contagious virus. To prevent that, you must avoid contact. This is a good situation. But it's a bad situation: we're seeing local cases right now. The sighting of domestic cases, in particular, shows that cases from abroad have contacts within the country. That's wrong, too. In particular, I would like to remind you again that no contact should be made; those who are from abroad or who are currently ill or infected must avoid contact, we need to isolate them; we need to follow social isolation. I think the more we obey caution, the more we can get ahead of this epidemic. For him, decisions have been made, first of all, made for you. Of course, it's not enough for the Health Department or the government to make decisions, but the citizen has to abide by these decisions. The more decisions we follow, the more we can prevent this outbreak, the less we can reduce the speed of the cases. Another data -- it's explained data -- shows that the virus is more infected with chronic diseases and smokers. Scientists explain this in this way: It increases connective receptors in lung cells, and it shows that the virus, especially for those with chronic diseases and smokers, is more embedded in the lungs. That's an important point, and you have to pay attention to that. The other thing is that we support the decisions made by our government on health care personnel. We specifically stated that new medical staff should be taken in at this time. We are pleased that our health minister has stated that 32,000 new recruits will be reserved and that there will be a buy-in. We want this done as soon as possible. I just want to point out that there should be no interagency transitions from other institutions in particular, so what I mean is that there shouldn't be a transfer from universities or any other ministry to the Ministry of Health, because you don't have to reduce the staff at universities or other institutions, you have to keep the current number, you have to keep the current number.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0235par0353	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0234par0354	The second thing is, again, one thing we support as the National Movement Party is that we are also pleased with the decision made by the Ministry of Health, especially by the fact that the additional payments to health staff over 100 per cent during the period of three months, and we support that as the National Party of Action. I invite everyone to comply with the decisions made by the Ministry of Health and by the government, and I wish we could get through these difficult times together. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0236par0358	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are 2 motions on Article 30. I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction. Here, read this: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main number is (2/2633). We propose and propose that the following joke be added to Article 30 of the Law Proposal. "Turkish citizens who participated in the national struggle and who were therefore awarded the Artificial Medal in 1950 and Turkish citizens who had participated in the Turkish Brigade's launch in Korea in October 1950, and the State Övünc Medal in Cyprus, as long as they were alive, from the Pan-Munjon Truce Agreement in 1953 to the actual number of Turkish citizens who participated in the war in Korea, and from the budget of 14596 indicators each year in July 1974 and from the July 1st and August 2nd Peace Operation of Peace will be tied to a salary. This month is paid in full and uninterrupted, regardless of whether or not another income or a monthly job is taken. In the event of the death of the rightful owner, this month's widow is bound by 75 percent. Mehmet Ali Çelebi Müzeyyen Şevkin Emine Gülizar Emecan Gamze Taşcıer Saliha Sera Kadıgil Sürkan Topal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0237par0370	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0236par0371	Hatay MP Serkan Topal wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Clumsy.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0238par0374	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow congressmen, I pay my respects to you all again. Dear friends, again, I'm going to talk about the coronavirus, because if you're really careful, before we got caught, there was already an economic vulnerability in our country, there was poverty in our country, there was great unemployment in our country. Dear friends, when I give this speech, I especially want to address the National Party for Action. Why? I want to express it because you're partners in power.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0239par0378	Watch where you're going. - You call the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0238par0380	Look, dear friends...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0240par0381	Address the General Assembly, General Board. Shame on you!
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0238par0382	Especially why? You're partners in power. I know very well how much you love the government and the people. That's why you have a responsibility, and you have to act with that sense of responsibility, and so do we. Look, economic measures aren't enough.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0240par0384	Your party rep is talking about economic measures in the back.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0238par0385	We tell our citizens to stay in the house. Believe me, many of our citizens have to go out. Why? Yeah, he's already unemployed, he doesn't have any money. We must come with such economic measures that we must comfort our citizens.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0240par0386	Mr. Serkan, speak on purpose, speak on purpose.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0238par0387	Mr. Group Vice President, you'll be out of here soon, okay... I didn't pick on you, I just tried to remind you of your duty.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0240par0388	Talk to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0241par0389	Watch where you're going!
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0242par0390	Call the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0243par0391	Talk to yourself, talk to yourself.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0244par0392	Mr. Congressman, Mr. Serkan, let's address the House.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0245par0393	I'm addressing the council. Look, our fellow congressmen, we, the Republican People's Party, have taken out the Social Solidarity Programme, and we really suggest that you consider it. There are economic measures here, and there are really arrangements for working life. Please consider this. Dear friends, again, we ask you to consider this. Dear friends, look, Germany has divided 550 billion euros. Even Poland, 38 million, divided 47 billion euros. What did we split up? $100 billion.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0246par0397	100 billion.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0245par0398	That's 15 to 16 billion euros. From this 15-16 billion euros, 2 billion euros will be given to families.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0246par0399	There'll be more.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0245par0400	But we need to bring the rest as soon as possible so we can comfort our citizens. Look, any decision you make about our citizens, we're on your side. At the point of solving our citizens' problems, we're on your side on all kinds of issues, we're on your side. But, for example, look, I'll give you a very simple example: Do you know where the people from the Sarp Border Gate went last time? He was sent to the house in Eskişehir. How? By way of land. Is that true, fellas? They must have infected someone during breaks. So, now, our friends from the Sarp Border Gate must be quarantined or quarantined or quarantined in the nearest region of Hatay. Now, when I talk about it, our valued MP for the mp group is from there... so please, I love you, but you have a responsibility here, and I'm telling you that the economic package isn't enough.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0247par0404	The package you're offering is for the people you're offering. You're going to save this country with the rest of us!
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0248par0405	Talk to the council!
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0245par0406	No farmers, no workers, no workers in this economic package. Either you come out here and tell us that you're supporting our nation with an economic package to comfort them, and we'll thank you here, dear friends.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0248par0407	You read the other things of Kılıçdaroğlu.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0249par0408	How do you know about the coronavirus, are you a doctor?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0245par0409	Look, if this goes on in a month, believe me, many of our citizens will be out of work, starving, facing suicides.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0248par0410	Don't show off, don't show off!
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0245par0411	So now I would like to repeat this warning on this stand once again, dear friends.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0250par0412	Don't agitate, agitation!
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0245par0413	Let's work together on a new economic package that will comfort our entire nation, comfort the workers, comfort all our citizens, and set up a commission on that. Look, why isn't there a Grand National Assembly in Turkey? The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not involved. The health minister's statements are only learned from the MPs on Twitter, dear friends. Other than that, let's set up a commission and find a solution here with an economic package that can comfort our entire nation again. Thank you very much. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0251par0416	You've done your show, go sit down.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0252par0417	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0253par0418	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0252par0421	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, to our dear congressman on the stand, Serkan Topal, I don't think this conversation is appropriate, it's a little raw and it doesn't suit me, I'd like to express it. He's trying to deal with a matter in a way that's going to be political and abusive. However, his group is making this speech with the aim of not knowing what activity the Republican People's Party Group is currently conducting, and to inform them that all party groups have held at least 20 topics of information about the issues that Plan and Budget Commission representatives are currently talking about.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0254par0425	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0252par0426	My advice to him is: I advise him not to speak in such a manner as this, as he talks about, as he does, as he speaks, as he speaks, as he speaks, as he speaks, as he speaks, as he speaks, as a representative of his groups, from Mr. Bkent Kuşoglu. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0254par0431	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 30th article of Law Proposal No. 196 be changed to, or to,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, Şevin Coşkun Ahmet Şık Murat Çepni Hussain Won't Run. Suryet Dilan Taşdemir. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0255par0440	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0254par0441	İstanbul MP Ahmet Şık wants to talk about the motion.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0256par0443	Thank you. Hello, everyone. Within a few weeks, the whole world has been struggling with a deadly virus epidemic and its devastating effects. As the virus spreads at a tremendous rate between countries and continents, those in charge and in charge of Turkey have either remained silent or tried to convince the public that the necessary measures have been taken. And so the TV screens were left to the charlatans. And now we're faced with a cataclysmic disaster. The most common measure taken in the country is the advice that everyone repeats to each other: "Stay in the house, and everyone stay in their homes. " Of course, we all have to obey it, but can everyone stay in their homes, that's the problem. Construction workers who we know will be the victims of a job murder called "kaza" even if they get rid of the Coronavirus plague. Or the delivery people at the shipping companies who make the orders for the people who live in your house, the couriers who deliver those orders to our door. The ones that continue to work in factories in textile workshops in non-human conditions. Stay in the house. Those who collect our garbage that we have multiplied even more according to your counsel. When we get to the hospital under suspicion, doctors, nurses, nurses, nurses, those who try to clean up that hospital. The millions of people who are taught to live are the ones who are told to be able to feed themselves with their daily labor. Of course, there are people in this class group who fit the house stay-at-home calls, even though they're in this class group. Some are forced to do so, while others are forced to work at workplaces where they are forced to work, and others are even left unemployed. I mean, we're not in a good mood. With a virus problem, it has appeared with all its nudity as to what kind of structural problems and mental weaknesses the countries, the states, the powers, are in. Each country strives to fight in its own way and within its means, explaining the incentive packages. If we look at the country's GDP rates for fighting programs that have taken these measures that require serious financial support, we have the highest of 19 percent of the U.S., and the lowest in the Netherlands, 11 percent of the country. Turkey, which is a later member of this list, is only 2 per cent. The only thing left in the package of incentives that cost $100 billion was the cologne to be distributed. Let's not be wrong, the $2 billion that corresponds to 2 per cent of the package has been earmarked as a cash aid to the needy. In essence, you've announced a packed package of strange substances, which have no effect on the rate of infection and preventing deaths, called the anti-corona strategy. And you can't turn to a real challenge so that the weakness of the financial crisis that arises with the looting and looting economy won't be visible. I mean, we're not in the mood. This is the most fundamental difference between the rest of the world and Turkey in the fight against a massive epidemic that is taking over the entire country -- not to understand the importance and magnitude of the issue, to explain, and to find solutions, but to look for opportunities, or especially to create them. For example, on the 5th day of the outbreak, you have false measures that lead to the opening of protected areas, the arrest of trustees on the 11th day, and the arrest of the elected, and the hatred of elderly citizens. That's what we call opportunism. As with all the crises that we face during your years of power, your reflex here begins with the same, you begin with the word "fitrate," and you attribute the matter to patience and prayer. After the words that we need the unity and unity most, you continue with the familiar metaphor of the ship, which is decorated with lies that all of us are in. Of course we're not happy. Of course, those who benefit from your so-called combat package, which is being joked about by tax, insurance, delays in loan loans, configurations, capital owners on the same ship, are in good spirits. We know it's against your anti-polarizing power to take measures that cover the entire society, especially the workers, the poor and the destitute. We know what we're dealing with: joy for capital, poverty and unemployment for the poor, lies to large masses, cologne for the elderly, applause for health workers who risk their lives, and a sense of power that wants them to be seen as a great blessing, and we're on the same ship every time. No, we're not happy, we're not on the same boat, you and I, who share the run-of-the-art government's share in this sacrifice that you and I have forced out of you. Those who show up days after the outbreak starts and cheer up the investors who have to work to bring home a loaf of bread are not on the same boat that is not guaranteed to make money, even if they risk death and go out. Those who have to close their businesses are not on the same ship, not even on the recommendation of delaying bills on electricity, water, heating costs, from those who have been given free leave of employment, from some obligation, or from many opportunisms. Those who are approaching are not on the same ship with their authority and humiliation. Can I finish?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0257par0453	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0256par0454	On the one hand, those who see this epidemic as an opportunity to pave the way for economic problems and political blockage, as a second gift to God for reinvestigation of power, crowds who face real dangers in uncertainty and anxiety and who don't care if they're raised or cheered up. No, we're not in the right mood, we're not in the same boat. It's a simple law of physics: the power of the chain is the weakest link. The countries are as weak as their weakest link, and the powers are as strong as their bond with that weak link. So what you need to do is you need general quarantine throughout the country, you need to give everyone the opportunity to test and treat, you need to create a safe and secure working environment for health workers, layoffs should be banned, you need to pay the minimum wage for those forced to work and the small businesses who have to close down, tax exemption should be granted, electricity, water, heating costs should be cancelled... I'm finishing with a sentence. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Prisons must be evacuated through a stay of execution and early release, and those under early discharge must be forced to return to their homes and, of course, always be transparent. Now you're going to ask for resources, and for that, we have a suggestion: You can take the treasure, including the discretionary accent, into the pockets of those you have looted under the name of the government. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0258par0461	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0259par0464	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs spoke of the Talan, about the looting. I remember this conversation from before that. Actually, we don't have time right now, so if we go out and we put the talks together, they're all the same, same expressions, same words, nothing else has been put on it. Now, such power...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0260par0465	You're doing the same thing because you keep looting, keep looting!
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0261par0466	Because you're not ashamed to give up looting, that's why.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0259par0467	In these squares, in the polls, they've told us the same thing, the vote is obvious.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0260par0468	It's obvious you got the vote!
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0259par0469	The budget is that taxes collected from the nation be returned to the nation. If people see a problem in getting their taxes back to them, giving them back to them, they'll change power and replace it. It's in the hands of the people. So the citizen has never seen a problem between the taxes collected and the service and distribution offered to him, but he's kept the AK PARTY in power. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0262par0475	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0263par0479	Thank you, Mr. President. Our teacher actually gave a very deep, enlightening speech. Why aren't we in a good mood and why aren't we on the same boat as the poor and the rich, unemployed and the workers, as other investors, actually, it was a pretty good conversation. I hereby congratulate him. Mr. Mish took the words and said in particular, "The lies of the People's Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP)." We didn't lie to the public, we're defending what we said in the polls today, we're defending it to the letter, but I'm telling the power that they nominated the trustee, they lost -- just one example -- then they came and took it, they got it. Turkey has the public's appreciation for who lies and who tells the truth. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0264par0486	I submit the 30th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are 2 motions on Article 31. I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of the Law Proposal No. 196 is changed to the one in Article 31. Diyet Dilan Taşdemir Gülışstan Kılıç Koçyiğit Nuran İmir Murat Çepni Şevin Coşkun Merkel Danış Beştaş Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0265par0495	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0264par0496	It's Siirt MP Coral Danış Beştaş who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0266par0499	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. I want to talk to us about the Great National Assembly of Turkey and the Colorado epidemic. We need to establish this connection here first. Many of our speakers have told us, and so have fellow deputies from other parties, that right now not only Turkey, but the whole world is fighting this virus. Indeed, a virus that threatens humanity. So with the plague, we hope we don't have to compare with the other historical background, but the globality, the pandemic, it's probably enough for us to find out what it's all about. What do we do against this plague - God forbid - the virus, the corona, the Covid-19? Our reviews were told, leaving them aside, so what do we do? As representatives of the public, we have been working as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for two weeks, what health measures have we taken against this epidemic, what have we discussed? I don't think I missed anything. Last week, all of us came up with proposals for different aspects of the battle against the corona virus, economics, health, different fields of interaction, all rejected. So, what are we talking about? We're talking about a bag of laws right now. Does this bag of laws have anything to do with the pandem and the fact that we call the public every day? No. So why did the public send us here? To solve our own problems, to solve these problems in the legislature. Now, what did we do as HDPs? Let me be frank with you: Our members of the Plan and Budget Commission called for a meeting of the Plan and Budget Commission to take economic measures immediately after the announcement of the pandemic, which was not accepted. The Health Commission -- or, Health Commission friends -- we have a commission consisting of all parties' participation -- has invited members to meet with the Health Commission, which has not been accepted. What about the Human Rights Commission? Our members of the Human Rights Commission have called for an intervention as a commission, especially as representatives of the painting that is leading to human rights violations in prisons. It has not been accepted. And that wasn't enough; we -- we called -- come from here -- with the equal membership of all parties in parliament, we said, let's set up a crisis coordination center with the same number of MPs. We didn't answer that. And now it looks like we're working, it doesn't exist. People's agenda is to fight the corona. ▪ How can I be protected from this virus? My deputies, my Assembly, what measures are they taking to protect me in this business, and what work is they doing? While we're watching, we're going to vote last week -- today's vote -- whether participation in the African Development Bank Foundation Agreement is appropriate, sir, and we're going to vote. What's that got to do with it? There's a fire, a fire. Every day everyone goes out and says, "Stay in the house." We go and agree to a deal. For one thing, there's a social distance between Congress and the public here. We don't have to talk about the public agenda, we have to talk about our agenda, we have to talk about our agenda, and we don't have to talk about our agenda, we have to talk about the agenda of power. It's an unacceptable matter; it's never really an acceptable matter. The Minister of Health can't fight the epidemic by having a meeting every night at eleven o'clock or after the pandemic. Also, if the worker is in the factory, if the doctor is in the hospital, if the officer is doing his public service, as representatives of the public, we, the MPs, will be here, we shouldn't interrupt these work here. If we can't protect them, let's not protect ourselves. We're no better than the people, we're no more privileged than the people, but the public gave us general power of attorney, as the people call it, gave us their power of attorney, gave us their representation. Here, no matter what we say, no matter what demand we make, we hit a wall and we have to stand back, but let me tell you, I want to call our people: yes, we really should stay home, really stay in this house is vital to protect our lives. I don't want this call... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm putting it together, Mayor.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0267par0505	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0266par0506	We should stay home for a healthier life. For a healthier fight, we must stay home to fight injustice, lawlessness. We need to stay home to protect our children, our relatives, what we've been in contact with. Besides, we need to stay home, not just sitting at home, closing, working, developing our skills, reading, keeping communication strong, building solidarity, because there's no hope of power. He tells us to stay at home. But he doesn't calculate what we eat at home. He says stay at home. But he doesn't calculate whether we have electricity, stay at home. He says, he still has an argument about how the children will be educated. So stay in the house. I say that we will all, together with the citizen, together with the community, will fill the calling. Thank you all.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0267par0509	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and recommend that the statement of the first article of Article 31 of the Law Proposal for Changes in some of the 196 Laws that are in place. Ayhan Erel Enez Kaplan Zeki Hakan Sedali Yasin Ozturk Hope White Muhammad Naci Cinisli Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0268par0518	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0267par0519	Istanbul MP Umit White wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. White.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0269par0522	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the relevant substance, the PARTI. I salute you all. The whole world and our country are facing a major epidemic. I believe that as the Turkish nation, we will overcome this great pandemic by listening to social solidarity and the warnings of the authorities. I'd like to thank everyone here, especially our medical staff, who've been fighting the entire Coronavirus epidemic, making a sacrifice. However, although we have enough time ahead of us, I think there has been some slackness in taking the necessary precautions. During my time in Istanbul, my constituency, I tried to keep a close eye on the developments. Despite the health minister's good intentions, there have been major setbacks in the fight against measures and the epidemic, especially in Istanbul. You know the paramedics are in the high-risk group. We see special protection measures for our healthcare workers are not being activated. If you're fighting an epidemic, you'll protect the medical staff first. No unguarded medical personnel. It's not enough to appreciate the health staff who are struggling with such a situation, we have to ensure the safety of our health workers. Our health workers are now fighting the epidemic at the forefront, but they're very concerned about their own health. We expect health care from concerned people who don't know what to expect at any moment. The working conditions of health workers must be corrected and secured so that they can serve better. Our medical personnel are also unable to protect the public without protection, but we do not see that this matter is being dealt with very seriously. Dear friends, we've been getting complaints that many hospitals aren't equipped to deliver enough equipment, that the distribution isn't enough. In particular, the N95 masks and surgical masks used during contact with the coronavirus patient are having problems with health care. Paramedics buy masks at a price because the masks they're signed for aren't enough. Paramedics live in fear of getting involved with someone more than they do themselves. There's still no study of it. Health workers who have been exposed to all kinds of risks during their work are struggling with the epidemic in fear of taking that risk to their loved ones at home after work. Some hospitals in Istanbul claim to have planted masks and distributed them to staff in their own tailory. They wash their own personnel uniforms in their homes. We can't just ignore them. Because of this epidemic, we've learned that a country's defenses aren't just limited. Despite all risks and insufficient working conditions against the Coronavirus epidemic, our health workers who are fighting for the health of the Turkish nation are like our heroes who fought for the unity of our country, the unity of our nation. In these circumstances, I believe we have to provide them with the necessary confidence, the proper working conditions. Dear lawmakers, I must say that I don't think it's right for our health army to fight an extraordinary battle despite the shortcomings, while our nation's pupil Red to deliver masks abroad at this time. It's a shame, a sin, to say the least, to have this help we've learned through the social media sharing of an Indian official. I extend my love to all of you, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0270par0530	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 31 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are 3 motions on Article 32. I'm going to process it in order of discrepancy. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 32 of Law Proposal No. 196 be removed from the text of the law proposal. Diyet Dilan Taşdemir Murat Çepni Oya Ersoy Gülışstan Kılıç Koçyiğit Nuran İmir Ahmet Şık Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0271par0541	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0270par0542	Izmir MP Murat Çepni wants to talk about the motion.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0272par0544	Thank you, Mayor. Yes, we've been arguing about the coronavirus epidemic for days, but despite all the debate we've had, despite all the effort that the health workers have put forth, the epidemic continues, and we don't have any idea where it's going to go, what level it's going to take. But the most basic data, the most basic information that has come out of this entire process, is that what we've known so far, all the arguments we've ever had, all the political debates we've had, have taken to a whole new level. Thus, nothing will ever be the same again. The concept can be used here. For example, we have a very concrete demand that this process be carried out in transparency, and we have made it clear in the first place. It is one of the main challenges, especially the Union of Health and Social Workers, especially the Union of Turkish Medical Medicines, at this point, that our professional institutions are not included in the process. This process cannot be managed in the form of a video game. Such an understanding of governance is equivalent to deceiving the people. While we debated the process, education was suspended and home-schooled. And we've noticed something in the process, so there's no doubt that before that, we had criticism about the religiousization of education, about who the jihadist was involved in the education curriculum, about who the sexist figures were, especially the unions, but we've seen them again. Saw what? For example, we saw the execution scene of Adnan Menderes. The execution scene of Adnan Menderes was not enough, but we saw another head-cutting scene being taught to our children on EBA screens. It's a bottom line of opportunistic politics, really. So we're seeing a state television that should be teaching in such a process, and here is a religious and vindictive generation, a Jihadist generation. The government must give up this policy immediately. This policy doesn't contribute to anyone. Stay in the house again. We have repeatedly expressed the call. Millions of workers can't stay home here, unfortunately, because millions of workers face hunger and death. Today, workers working in shipyards are screaming; today thousands of workers working in call centers are at the same risk. Again, 120,000 financial advisors express the same criticism, the same tribulation. Heavy industrial workers, small industry workers -- almost all of them -- millions of workers are left to die in the process. Dear friends, I can give you a statistic: the price of two weeks' paid leave is $5.4 billion. If you ask, how can this $5.4 billion be afforded? The answer is very simple. With half the channel Istanbul budget, this budget can be well covered. With the war budget, the security budget, one fifth of the budget, this budget can be well-funded, but of course, a neoliberal understanding of hospitals, which has a concept of the healthcare sector instead of public health, can't, of course, provide a solution to that. Dear friends, we repeat our proposals: Kira payments must be stopped during the outbreak, all loan payments to banks must be stopped during the outbreak. Electricity, water, natural gas, telephone and internet must be provided for free. The layoffs must be banned. All employees must be given paid leave except the mandatory sectors. Common test conditions must be provided, and all health care needs of immigrants who strive to live under very unhealthy conditions must be met. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit04spe0273par0553	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0273par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 72nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 196. The commission is in place. The motion on Article 32 was laid down. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 32 of the Law Proposal to change certain Laws in the following way. With all due respect. The first joke of the 8th Article of the Law on Editing and Fighting Crimes Against the Way of these Publishers has been changed in subtext " (6) and (7) in subverts " (6) and (c) in me (c). ▪ Crimes in the Law on Betting and Chance Games, dated 29/4/ 1959, in Football and Other Sports Competitions No. 7258. Gamze Taşcıer Müzeyyen Şevkin Emine Gülizar Emecan Cavit Bee Vecdi Gündüzdu Saliha Sera Kadıgil Milk Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0274par0016	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0273par0017	It was Vecdi Gündoğ who wanted to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Gündüz.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0275par0020	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, the world and our country are facing vital, economic and social difficulties because of the coronavirus. First of all, let the people live so that the state understands that the priority of human life is the urgency and obligation to take measures free of economic concerns. In the extraordinary period, we should also support our health workers, who are doing their jobs at the expense of their lives, not just by applauding the balcony, but by quickly meeting their needs in accordance with the criteria and demands of the World Health Organization and the Turkish Medical Corps. The improvement of working conditions must also be taken without delay, without delay, against the lack of medical needs and the intensity that may occur in the coming days. In view of the number of more intensive patients that may occur in the coming days, measures to increase the number of intensive care and beds should be taken as soon as possible. Protecting ourselves from the virus, aside from individual protections, our citizens must have strong body resistance. The most important enemy of resistance is stress and anxiety, which has also been proven by experts. In this regard, the Economic and Social Council must be convened, the workers-employee representatives must be brought together, the layoffs must be banned, in order to address the citizens' economic concerns for a little while. Apart from mandatory services, the state must apply for a sabbatical and secure all employees' income. All bills and loans must first be extended for six months. A family insurance policy must be fast-lived in order to protect all segments from economic turmoil and reduce the cost of the citizens to adapt to vital measures. For use of unemployment insurance under extraordinary conditions, conditions must be updated and edited. The tradesmen and the COBIs who will be forced into hardship must be taken care of immediately, and the amnesty must be removed immediately. Let the people live, so that our citizens can be assured that the health safety of all citizens from seven to seventy in accordance with their understanding of the state, that the food and food supply chain will continue without a hitch. Our citizens should be comfortable with this. Stay at home. We have to help the citizens we call home from health care, nutrition, and economic anxiety and hope for the future together. To do so, it falls primarily to those who govern the state, to the government, and to those who have spent years making big money on the back of this nation, and to those who have invested wealth in their wealth. If we're on the same ship, if all our citizens are equal, we have to divide the sacrifices equally according to income. Far from the poor, near rich economic policies that AKP governments have been following for 18 years, makes the poor poor poor poorer, the rich richer. In our country, 10 per cent of the richest in 2002 had 68 per cent of the wealth, while the AKP's policies, which made the wealthy richer in 2002, had 10 per cent of the richest in 2018, 81 per cent of the wealth. It is also responsible for the power that has set the rules of order for 18 years. It's also the hubris mindset that chooses to transfer public resources to the supporter Ponzi scheme that will sustain its own power. Congressmans, it is our duty to ensure a healthy living, justice, rights and law. That's why we exist here. Our democracy, our consciences are hurt, our blood is bleeding; we have to stop this blood, and we have to do it together. Or we'll have to answer to our children, even our unborn grandchildren, and we won't. The problem is building a bright and modern Turkey is the problem of promoting democracy. The problem is the problem of morality and conscience. Let no one fear, nor let anyone despair. Those who fail, those who do not rule over their people, those who deceive, those who say, "God forgive us." Those who say, "God forgive us." Those who do this work will go away, and those who do it better will come in their place. They're going to live the mind, the common sense, the democracy and the freedoms of the future, my friends. Those who prefer the language of love, not the language of hate, will come. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0276par0028	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment to some Laws under which there are 196 lines in the first verse of Article 32 of the Law Proposal has been changed "with the word "reorganized. " Ayhan Erel Enez Kaplan Zeki Hakan Sedali Yasin Ozturk Muhammad Naci Cinisli Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0277par0037	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0276par0038	Aksaray MP Ayhan Erel wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Erel.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0278par0041	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the great Turkish nation, we're sure to get through the health problems that we're experiencing, in a way, by hand in hand, by hand, by hand, by the advice and suggestion of the state and its relevant institutions, by scientists. However, when we look at the economic challenges that this danger has brought, the belief that these problems will continue on for a larger and longer period is advanced by all economists. In this context, I think we have to take some measures in agriculture, especially in the future, in order to help our nation avoid shortages of basic needs, in order for those who have been planted to increase the recolte, and to encourage those who have not been planted. We think that if we can get our farmers to take advantage of their various inputs in wheat, chickpeas, sugar beets, beans, potatoes, onions, oil, sunflowers, corn, cotton, now, our farmers, our agricultural citizens, in this area, we'll be able to increase efficiency in the future. What can we do? For one thing, first of all, every farmer owes a huge amount of debt, and these loans have high interest rates. We can delay your debts without interest, re-restruct our farmers to breathe freely. Again, we can provide our farmers with a non-payment for this agricultural season, so that they can be comfortable watering the crop. Again, in fertilizer, in mazotta, in other inputs, we think that by giving our farmers various advantages, we can eliminate the absence, poverty that we may encounter in the future. Again, in order for the economy to revive, we have to put the consumption economy aside and move on to the production economy. We need to produce. We need to get the half product used in production from Turkey. Again, we have to use high-tech technology here in production. Today, if we give about six tons of potatoes in exchange for a cell phone, I think we need to question our economy, the way we produce. Again, in this environment, we believe that the political will that governs Turkey should now push the Canal Istanbul Project to one side and bring jobs, food to our citizens, food to their homes, manufacturing factories. Again, of course, after we produce, we have to encourage demand. And to encourage the demand, first of all, a citizen's buying power has to go up. What can we do? We can get 3600 additional indicators to our officers as soon as we can, as promised and promised in the polls. We can make sure that our citizens, who have earned it and who have retired to early retirement, are gradually granted these rights so that we can raise them to a certain degree in buying power. Again, as with the pensioners, we may be able to bring to life a bonus of two wages or a certain amount of bonuses on the holidays. Again, we believe that it is a conscientious duty, a human mission, a government mission, to make sure that our paid teachers, who are victims of closed schools and who can't afford to bring bread to their homes and children. Again, we have heard from Mr. Health Minister that 32,000 health workers will be appointed, and our young people are very excited about it, and they are impatiently awaiting this appointment. The oral and dental technicians who have heard of this appointment expect at least 500 staffs to be given to them. Again, workers working in Kuwait and various countries of the Middle East are victims, especially from Aksaray, my constituency. Employer, take care of yourself. In his opinion, the government of Kuwait says I won't interfere. They will not be in peace, nor will their relatives be at peace in it. Our government must quickly address the problems of our workers who work abroad, especially in the Middle East. With these thoughts, I salute your high council.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0279par0048	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 32 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are 3 motions on Article 33. I'm going to process it in order of discrepancy. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 33 of Law Proposal 196 be removed from the text of the law proposal. Gülışstan Kılıç Koçyiğit Nuran İmir Ahmet Şık Abdullah Koç Oya Ersoy Murat Çepni Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0280par0061	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0279par0062	Ağrı MP Abdullah Koç wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Coach.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0281par0065	Mr. President, first of all, we're calling on our people to take individual precautions, especially stay at home, so that this disease, this virus doesn't spread too much, to protect them from the corona virus that unfortunately plagues humanity in this world. Dear President, lawmakers, the pandemic of coronavirus is a common enemy that needs to be fought together. That's a description made by the World Health Organization. Unfortunately, all the people are conscious of the health ministry's need for a tweet, throwing a tweet every 24 hours alone. Concerning those who have reflected the truth, the person who has posted or made a statement about this matter is being investigated on charges of terrorism propaganda, and unfortunately, information has been prevented from spreading. Our call here is that the public must be informed and informed immediately. The people involved in the spread of this existing virus must be fully informed and allowed to receive information. What is a painting in Turkey, this painting must be clearly explained. Now, dear friends, in his daily statement, the Minister of Health has suggested that free tests are being conducted everywhere, but according to our research, private hospitals are being tested for 1,500 lira, so private hospitals are unfortunately being tested in exchange for money, and there are no measures taken yet. Again, millions of people are unemployed and the needs of these unemployed people are at stake. In this direction, there is no concrete measure taken by the government. Dear friends, we certainly don't and we certainly don't take kindly to the behavior of our people, especially over 65, these days. Now, an elderly citizen asks the police: "Why don't you go home, why aren't you at home?" He replied: "This is my home because I am homeless. This is where Turkey is." Dear friends, look, we want to point out here how necessary and necessary is the understanding of the social state that has been present in the Constitution and has forgotten and eliminated this government for years. Unfortunately, he's been removed from the social state principle. On February 21st, we gave the Parliament a motion to ask, and danger is at the door. We said, "There is a very serious danger in Iran, in our neighbour, and unfortunately the government has not taken the necessary measures on this issue, and we are also late and unfortunately faced with a very serious picture." Look, there are 1,334 patients in prison, and they're in great danger because of the corona virus. This execution arrangement is required to be brought in, but this execution arrangement is also discriminated against. The Anti-Terror Law, the press statement of every opposition in Turkey, the political opposition is taken into the Anti-Terror Law, facing investigation and prosecution. The Execution Act, which is intended to be brought here, causes discrimination again. The Anti-Terror Act has become a taboo for Turkey, and unfortunately this political power is firmly, firmly wrapped up in this taboo. Any opposition to political power that does not like is considered a ban, and it is imposed. Again, the law of execution, which has been asked to be brought, brings with it an inequality of the Constitution. Social solidarity is the answer of this government, the answer of this government is to ignore, the answer of this government is discrimination. Look, arrests and investigations are going on fast, and unfortunately, we're up against this practice here.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0282par0075	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0281par0076	Dear friends, look, I'm afraid the equitable approach of power in the Execution Act is out of the question. A donation from power isn't waiting for a blessing; it's an equitable approach; it's a necessity, it's a constitutional obligation. We call upon this authority to obey the Constitution. See, Article 2 of the Constitution contains the rule of law. Again, the 10th article contains the principle of equality. We suggest that this government must obey the Constitution immediately and take measures in that direction. I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0283par0080	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. The other motion has been withdrawn.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0284par0082	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0283par0083	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0284par0086	Mr. President, there's been a comment here about the fact that the statements always happen during the evening, and I'd like to inform the General Assembly about that. We have 37 test centers, dense cities like Istanbul and Ankara. It's nine o'clock in the evening that the results of the tests here are collected. After all these are gathered from all the centers, the announcement is made only during the evening. So these statements take time to collect data from all of these centers, so it takes a long time to get close to eleven or eleven in the evening. I'd like to present it to the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0285par0092	I'm having the final motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of Article 5737 added to Article 20 in the first sentence of Article 33 of the current Law Proposal of 196, we propose and propose that the declaration of construction be removed from the text of matter. Mehmet Mush Mehmet Doğan Kubat Asuman Erdoğan Vildan Yilmaz Gürel Ramazan Can Semiha Ekinci Bekir Force Erim Recep Special Fehmi Albay Özalan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0286par0104	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0287par0105	Motive...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0285par0106	I'm reading the reason for the motion: With the motion, all rentals for the General Directorate of the Foundations and for all subsidiaries are intended to ensure continuity of rent revenues and prevent the loss of time and income if tenants who have not paid their rent for three months during the contract period fail to pay the full loan within the period of 30 days. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes on Article 33: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are 4 motions on Article 34. I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 34 of Law Proposal 196 be removed from the text of the law proposal. Gülışstan Kılıç Koçyiğit Nuran İmir Ahmet Şık Oya Ersoy Murat Çepni Diryet Dilan Taşdemir Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't agree, Mr. President. İstanbul MP Oya Ersoy wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0288par0124	I salute the General Assembly. Now, we need to talk about what this House will do. From the moment this outbreak started -- it's just been expressed -- by our Group Vice President -- I'd like to say that we've failed as Congress. I said it's a historical process, and in my speech earlier, Really, perhaps, with all the consequences that will be understood after this process has passed. This process cannot be managed this way, this process cannot be managed by excluding labour organisations, by meeting only with their own needs, leaving the Turkish Medical Union, which is the most trusted in the health environment created by the AKP government, outside the process. This process cannot be properly run from the palace and AKP agencies by shutting down the Parliament -- don't think about it -- the only reliable place we've established a single relationship. Why do I say that? You can predict this process, and as of today, there are scorpions in the poor neighborhoods in front of the markets. Those of you who have made the contrary statement and explained the facts are being taken into custody today under threat of punishment. Why? For sharing on Facebook. Why? For sharing information on Twitter, social media, and sharing real information. Now, this is an important process, and if we don't meet this important process in the form of a social struggle, everyone will be under the influence of this process. Now, it's been discussed, especially in the field of health. It's been tried. Look, I'm asking you... the Turkish Medical Association has conducted a survey... and has posted the results of the survey answered by 1,820 health workers from 74 counties today. 70 per cent of these have more than one-year-old Cavit-19 patients at a health institution where they work, 6 per cent say they have a face contact with a confirmed Cavit-19 patient at a health institution, and 78% of respondents say they are suffering from N95 masks, 74 per cent of shielding or protective glasses, 71 per cent of disposable apron-tudents, 60 per cent medical masks, 521% of them are suffering from access to gloves. The schematics... come in, look. Look, this is very important. If we can't really protect the health workers, we can't protect the people. As we gather here -- the number of members of the community is certain -- you get nervous when you leave the house, don't you? These health workers are at the front fighting, and you know what kind of healthcare will be if no measures are taken, and what the public will be like. Other than that, the DİSK, KESK, TMMOB, TTB have given you a joint statement, and the fight against this epidemic must first be organised as a social struggle. As far as the issue is concerned in the political economy and economic profit axis, an entire country's immunity is being damaged. They say and say their demands. I've just said that, in fact, the same content of demand, but for everyone in particular, the common test, an equal, accessible, affordable health is particularly, very, very important at this time. This needs to be done immediately. It's very important to protect the workers. The layoffs must be prohibited, and all employees must be given a paid permit. All workers and pensioners must be secured. Health workers and all other mandatory employees must be provided with safe working conditions, each of which must be tested periodically. Parental leave must be granted, not only will it be enough to lock up people over 65 -- for groups with intent -- but all must be tested without exception.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0289par0131	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0288par0132	How are these people doing at home? The basic food needs of these people who are locked in the house must be provided by the government. Public health and psychological support must be provided. The public must have regular, reliable information about the epidemic, transparency. What's in the hospitals now? I just asked. What provinces do they have this in? And the public needs to know that you can control information that's not true. One, you can do this with reliable organizations. Second, you can do this with transparency by spreading the right information. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0289par0135	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 34 of the Law Proposal to the Amendment in some Laws that are in question in 196 rows. With all due respect. The following temporary clause has been added to the Law No. 34-5737. The third and fourth jokes of Articles 14 - 20 are also applied to the General Manager's office and to the maintenance or construction rentals of subsidiaries belonging to non-existent institutions at the time of the application of this clause. But there are no six-month guarantees in these rentals. Rental agreements have been annulled if those who owe three months or more rents, which continue to be paid in full in three months' time since this clause went into effect, with the maintenance or construction of subsidiaries owned by the General Manager's Office and the institutions. This will immediately be announced by the General Manager's Office and the premises will be released and delivered within fifteen days of the administration. Gamze Taşcıer Müzeyyen Şevkin Emine Gülizar Emecan Cavit Bee Zeynel Emre Saliha Sera Kadıgil Milk Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0290par0150	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0289par0151	Istanbul MP Zeynel Emre wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Emre.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0291par0154	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. It's an important substance. I'm going to review the matter, but first, I have three notes in our country about the outbreak of corona, which we've been living in, which has taken over the world in the last few days, and in the last week, we've had serious casualties, and I'd like to express them under the roof of the High Assembly. Dear friends, number one, look, the number of cases, death rates, and figures like this are somehow hidden. So we look at it on the scale of the world, what other countries are doing in all major, serious states -- Germany, France, Italy, Korea, Mexico, more countries that we can count -- how many cases, how many losses are there in the city, how many cases are there, how many are there on the websites, how many are there in the public population, all of them transparently.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0292par0157	It's shared with us.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0291par0158	Now, how do we share it? We are all waiting in the evening to see what the Minister of Health is going to throw away. It's not clear which city there are, how many cases are missing; it's just given a total number of results, although the number of tests is not enough. Now, what's wrong with being transparent? Obviously, there has to be an explanation for this. Two: What is our plan to fight the corona concretely? The countries that succeeded in the fight had different methods. South Korea is one of the most successful examples here. South Korea minimized the damage through widespread testing and isolation. Now, what can we do? It seems, dear friends, that this has spread all over the country, all over Turkey now. So in all of Turkey, we have no choice but to identify and isolate cases, except to test people in their homes, in their homes, in their own homes, in order to prevent them from going to the streets, just as they do the census. If it spreads at this rate, it will cause serious casualties. And thirdly, a package has just been announced, yes, our economy is unfortunately poorly managed, so we don't have very strong budgets, we don't have very large budgets. A package has been announced, but what can this package afford? For example, the workers who work on wages, the merchants who live on their daily earnings, they have to work. Now, a package is being announced, and it says: "We reduce the 20 per cent down to 10 per cent down to 10 per cent of the down payment in the housing purchases. " How can it help a worker when he sits at home with the salary of 10 per cent? Yes, our circumstances are difficult, but let's not lose sight of this, we have to push it with the means we have to, because as important as the virus, a problem that leads to social problems, social outbursts at the end of this. So, dear friends, we need to go to rational solutions here. Now, as for the law, the bag became a habit, and this Sunday passed the basket. Now, I'm looking at the addition of crime related to catalog crime, illegal bet, etc., which has been decided to block access, and that's the issue of the Justice Commission. The next thing you know, the fact that one of the divorced parties is dead, the other Turkish citizen or deputy, who is a stranger, is applying alone, etcetera, something about family law, and so on, it's the job of the Justice Commission. You see, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism is the business of the Tourism Commission. Other than that, the House commissions are being defunctioned separately. This is not an acceptable practice. So this isn't helping anyone, it's a form that undermines the reputation of the House. You got to get in the way of that, there's no law in a bag like that. Dear friends, when you look at the material in the arrangement, we can't impose a new law. It is clear how to act in a debt-payment issue, and if one of the parties does not fulfill its obligation in a rental agreement, you will appeal to the court; for this reason, you will ask for release, the court judge will decide, and you will execute it. You can't authorize a property manager to evacuate a residence. That doesn't happen in the state of law. When you look at it, the forces are an arrangement that will completely eliminate the separation, not an acceptable arrangement. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll pick it up quickly, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0293par0165	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0291par0166	Now, when we look at many of the provisions of the Constitution at the same time, and in practice, in view of the economic atmosphere in which we live, when you leave the property to the chief, he's going to put a few months of property in front of the door, causing much greater social difficulties, one more impact on Turkey's exit from the rule of law, and the principle of governance that cannot be accepted as a coup. How you brought it, how it was predicted, what purpose it was brought to, it's really not understandable. Dear friends, so drop it, so I'm saying this arrangement is a public assault on the rule of the state of law. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0293par0169	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal No. 196 is currently in session, and we propose and propose that the statement of the first amendment to Article 5737, which is added to Article 5737, be removed from the text of the substance of the article, or the application of construction, which is included in its second joke, and be replaced by the other subsidiary, which continues with the rentals of the construction response. Mehmet Mush Mehmet Doğan Kubat Vildan Yılmaz Gürel Semiha Ekinci Fehmi Albay Özalan Asuman Erdoğan Bekir Force Erim Ramazan Can Recep Special Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0294par0182	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0295par0183	Motive...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0293par0184	I'm running the motion through motive. It is also envisioned that the property of tenants who have not paid the three-month rent fee during the contract period will be applied in all current rental rentals of the Foundations General Directorate and all other institutions, excluding the provision of six-month guarantees added to the 20th Article of the Foundation Act. It is also intended to ensure that those who owe three months or more rent in the ongoing rentals of the General Manager's Office and the institutes will be able to collect the funds if the estate does not fully repay its debt within three months of the period when this clause is in effect. Now, I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 34th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There is a motion on Article 35, read it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 35 of Law Proposal No. 196 be removed from the text of the law proposal. Diyet Dilan Taşdemir Gülültan Koçyiğit Murat Çepni Oya Ersoy Nuran İmir Ahmet Şık Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0296par0197	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0293par0198	Ağrı MP Diryet Dilan Taşdemir, who wants to talk about the motion.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0297par0200	Mr. President, I salute the General Assembly. I've received dozens of calls today, and I'm sure you've been called. The families who are close to them are in prison, in fact, in the Parliament, waiting for one step at a time, because they're watching this process with real anxiety. We all know that the high-risk areas are actually headed by prisons because the conditions and standards of prisons are really bad. Currently, there are nearly 300,000 prisoners and prisoners in prisons. During this outbreak, this arrest is still pending, and unfortunately, political genocide operations continue without slowing down. Every day new people are arrested and sent to prison. Obviously, the arrest isn't a precaution, it's actually now a punishment, it's being used as a punishment. In the current form of prisons -- in the face of such an alarming epidemic -- it is not possible for the prisoners to protect themselves, to maintain their lives there, of course. I'd just like to share with you the concerns of this situation in Patnos Prison and the situation that the prisoners have given us. Dear friends, in the barracks where five people are supposed to stay, there are close to 20, so far above their capacity, they have to stay in the same wards at the same time. Again, the Ministry of Justice's statement that the prisoners would be disinfected, cologne, mask distribution under measures has not really paid off, and none of this has been distributed. After the release was detected in Turkey, the wards had only been disinfected once. Again, the demand of the prisoners for cologne, masks, and disinfectant can be bought from the canteen. The answer has been given. But because these materials are sold in the canteen at an exorbitant price, prisoners can't buy them.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0298par0203	What prisoner?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0297par0204	Let alone all this, prisoners in Patnos Prison can't even afford proper soap.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0298par0205	There are no prisoners in prison, there are no prisoners. I made a legal definition.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0297par0206	It's up to us how we define it, so you can come up with whatever you want to describe it. That's what I call it, you don't have to define it that way. I don't have to talk about it according to your definition. So stop setting it up like that, and don't keep talking about it. You come in here and you express your own opinions. Dear friends, look, the Justice Department has made another statement. He said there were no positive outcomes in the prisons, so there was no positive result of the corona virus, but we ask him from here: for example, how many prisoners have been tested, have they been tested or not? Therefore, there is no idea whether any tests have been conducted. It's just said that there is no such thing as the general approach to all problems: there isn't if we say there isn't one. Dear friends, again, you know, the provision of the Execution Act, caused by this corona virus, is now on the agenda. It seems that this package wants to be kept out of politics. Obviously, this is discrimination, a violation of the principle of equality. Thousands of people have not already been judged fairly, under your instructions, in fact, by your instructions, people have been subjected to severe punishments. Thousands of people are now in prison because he threw only one, because he opposed you, because he expressed his thoughts. Who's in jail? Politicians in prison, journalists in prison, academics in prison. Now you want to keep that out of the law. Honestly, how do you know who's infected with the corona virus? What's the criteria for that? How do you make that distinction? Obviously, there's no response in law or morality; it's a arbitrary, segregational attitude, and we think it should be abandoned. Again, they're in prisons right now, friends, hundreds of sick prisoners, kids, old people, women. Therefore, they must be evacuated immediately, considering the situation. If this is not to be done, it means that we once again want to practice enemy law against political prisoners. This is not acceptable in the name of freedom, nor in the name of democracy. All prisons need to be evacuated as soon as possible. Whatever the necessary control mechanisms apply, no one has the power to handle mass death, nor does he have the patience. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0299par0212	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit Article 35 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 36th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion on Article 37, I'm going to read it and process it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 37 of Law Proposal 196 be removed from the text of the law proposal. Gülışstan Kılıç Koçyiğit Nuran İmir Ahmet Şık Şevin Coşkun Oya Ersoy Suryet Dilan Taşdemir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0300par0225	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0299par0226	Mush MP Şevin Coşkun wants to talk about the motion.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0301par0228	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the 37th Amendment. I salute the General Assembly. The number has increased exponentially since the discovery of the first case of coronavirus on March 11th. The number of cases and the number of deaths increase our anxiety. Although Italy and Spain are the heads of countries affected by the coronavirus, Turkey should not be ignored if its number of deaths is among the first five countries to rise quickly. When we look at the course of the virus in Turkey, the whole goal is not to be Italy anymore. Whenever Turkey has a political and political crisis, there is a professional group that is the target, and it is journalists. With the deepening of the virus crisis, we have no doubt that the government will bring the pressure devices towards the journalists. More than 150 journalists in Turkey are currently in prisons. Likewise, social media operations have not been interrupted since the day of the coronavirus began. In Adana alone 31 people have been taken into custody in the last week. We know that in the fight against Coronavirus, journalists have been given great duties and responsibilities. The process is conducted in a transparent manner, and journalists are responsible for meeting the right to public information under all conditions and conditions. The government has to take a similar approach. That's what's human, conscientious and political. However, current working conditions prevent journalists from fulfilling their responsibilities. As journalists pursue news under the threat of coronavirus, their health must be protected. Maintaining the health of journalists means public health information. We learn that many giant media organs do not offer journalists the opportunity to work. The health of journalists, health care protection, providing them with the necessary medical equipment is a priority. As inadequate and superficial as it is, some privileges are granted to health workers, it must be recognised to journalists in the process. At the same time, journalists who are imprisoned in prison at great risk should be released immediately. A journalist only thinks about doing a story in the process. Journalists should be released and play an active role in fighting the virus. Dear MPs, a number of economic improvements that health workers will benefit from have been announced by the government. We consider it a positive step, but it's not enough. Because health workers are working long hours right now, and they can't get the equipment to protect them. I'd like you to take a look at the risk survey that the Turkish Medical Association announced just this morning. 78 per cent of the physicians who participated in the survey reported that they had trouble accessing the N95 mask, 74 per cent to the trench or protective glasses; 71 per cent to the disposable scrubs, overalls; 60 per cent to the medical mask, 52 per cent to the apron, uniform and 38 per cent to the glove. A round of applause is a good gesture, but what's really important is the value that health workers see in practice. Health workers always play a key role in society, not just in time for the virus. On this occasion, the government must immediately see the error of policies that push healthcare workers into the performance system and trap them in the exploitation wheel. If we look at the progression of the virus, the number of infected patients will be tens of thousands. It is clear that the number of current health workers will not be able to handle this burden. On this occasion, all health workers who have been exported to the KHK must be returned to their duties immediately. Health workers who have been exported by the NGO express their desire to play an active role in the process at every turn, and we should listen to that voice. In the process, power also acts irrationally. Even in March, when the virus is active, young physicians are subject to a security investigation and are prevented from starting work. Security investigation is a violation according to the Constitutional Court. Even in the process of the virus, power harms its health both by troubling the law and by keeping young physicians out of hospitals. Dear MPs, we hereby send our regards and greetings to our dear, dear fellow doctors, comrades, Mr. Idris Bauken and Mr. Selçuk Mizraklı, held hostage by political power in prisons. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm picking it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0302par0236	Pack it up.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0301par0237	We want to remind you that their absence in parliament, city halls, or hospitals in the process has ruined the health of this community and destroyed this country's democracy. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0302par0240	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 37th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on Article 38 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 38 of Law Proposal 196 be removed from the text of the law proposal. Diyet Dilan Taşdemir Gülültan Koçyiğit Murat Çepni Nuran Imir Oya Ersoy Ahmet Şık Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0303par0250	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0302par0251	Şırnak MP Nuran İmir wants to discuss the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Imir.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0304par0254	Dear friends, when we look at the whole of this bag of legislation, the only thing that's being organized is the Rant policy, and because there's nothing left in the palm of the hand, new Rant fields are being created, so all means are fair. The expansion of foreign currency for citizens of Turkey who live abroad is causing the military system to be debated on its own. The government's policies, which have opened up every area and are profitable, are also seen in military service. The arrangement must be in a way that does not disturb the public conscience. Public conscience is disturbed in a system where a person with money does not serve, and a person without money does. The military system is structurally problematic. Unless forced public service is acted on by a sense of conscientious service instead of forced military service, any arrangement will deepen the problems and injustice that exist in the military system. My fellow lawmakers are attacking the gains of the AKP in foreign policy, in domestic policy, in the chest, in the street, in parliament, wherever it fails, in every area it loses. I'd like to address you: Stop this hostility, stop this opportunism. This hostility will kill you. It's not like you've created your own crisis, you'll be overwhelmed. We are Turkey's second largest opposition party, who sees the error of your power and develops alternatives. Come face politics with us. By unleashing law enforcement forces on us, you're only expressing your weakness and hostility by taking public representations, and that's not going to work. You claim to have committed all the violence and unlawful acts you've committed for the sake of this country. I assure you, on the day your policies of war and trustees are over, you will get out of those seats. The power to do so will be women, Kurds, young people, workers, and the oppressed of this country. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to say once again, and we will speak until we find a solution: Prisoners and prisoners who are at risk in prisons must be released immediately before the disease spreads. The measures must be taken before the deaths happen. In every field, the most important thing we have to do to overcome this difficult process is to develop solidarity and raise the morale of our people, not appoint trustees. Excluding political prisoners and prisoners in such a grave picture will deeply hurt the public conscience. The Constitution says that everyone is equal. The execution system must be equal. There will be gangs, but those who exercise the right to a meeting and demonstration march will not come out; women's killers will come out; but the people who are the Jews Demirtaş, Gültan Kışanak, or the doctors, İdris Baluken, will not come out; but the thieves will not come out, but Osman Kavala will not. We demand equality in execution, equality in all prisoners in these days of corona. First, we have to protect the right to live what's inside. Thousands of prisoners were released, especially Italy and Iran. Freely, unconditional evacuations must also be started in Turkey, otherwise any death will be blamed on the power itself. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit05spe0305par0263	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 38 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0305par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 72nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion, I'll have it read and put to your votes. At a meeting Tuesday (24/3/2020) of the advisory council, it has been suggested that the General Assembly continue its work until the completion of its talks on Tuesday (24/3/2020). Mehmet Mush Engin Özkoç Merkel Danış Beştaş Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party Peoples' Democratic Party His group is acting president of the vice president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party GOOD PARTY His group is acting president of the vice president group. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 196. The commission is in place. Congressmans, there are 15 motions for new clause violations. As you may know, the number of proposals for substance abuse in one section is 2. These proposals must be closely related to the proposed proposal. I will act as a precedent, not to be set a precedent, due to non-controversial motions in the Interior Charter, no objections from the political party groups attending the talks, and that the issue of the motions is related to the measures associated with the outbreak of the corona virus in our country. Now, I'm going to read the motions in order and ask the Commission. I'm going to open a meeting with the Commission as a new clause on the motions which are mostly attended by the commission. I'm going to remove the motions that the commission simply disagrees with most of the time. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the following clause be added to the current Law Proposal of 196 rows and other substances be identified accordingly. The third sentence of Article 42 (a) of Article 3194, dated 39-3/5/1985, has been removed and added to the joke. The amount of administrative fine, which is subject to the violation of the law which requires administrative fines under this joke, and the property tax of the land or land area, shall be added to the fines given by the above, as well as by the product of the minimum square meter value. According to this joke, the fine added under this dam will not be collected if the violation is resolved within a month of its notice and the structure is adopted in accordance with the legislation. Mehmet Mush Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bayram Özçelik Orhan Yegin Isaac Gazel Abdullah Güler Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0306par0036	Mr. President, there are only so many of us, we agree.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0305par0037	Thank you. Since the commission has only participated in the motion, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. Anyone? No. I submit the new item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the following clause be added to the current Law Proposal of 196 rows and other substances be identified accordingly. "The following temporary clause is added to Law 40-3194. "The administrative fines imposed on Article 42 of Article 23-7221, based on the provisions of the second joke of Article 42, are collected according to the measure of Article 42, which is changed by the Law that violates this clause. Due to payment for administrative fines issued under the second joke of Article 42, which was changed by Article 7221 before this clause entered into effect, more than the amount collected in accordance with the Second Amendment of Article 42, will be returned within a month of the date of demand, if it is demanded by its relative to the date 1/6/2020. Mehmet Mush Orhan Yegin Mehmet Doğan Kubat Isaac Gazel Abdullah Güler Bayram Özçelik Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0307par0052	Mr. President, there are only so many of us, we agree.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0305par0053	I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new item. Anyone? No. I submit the new item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0308par0056	Mr. President, Mr. President... Sir, I asked for a word before the matter was passed, but you probably didn't notice.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0305par0058	Absolutely, absolutely.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0308par0059	Yeah, that's how I see it. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0305par0061	Yeah, yeah, I didn't see it, so you should know.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0308par0062	I know, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0305par0063	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0308par0066	Mr. President, first of all, thank you. We've been talking to the AK PARTY Deputy Directors and relevant people about these materials that we've discussed, and we've been interviewing our other friends. What we're saying is that we have no objection to these 20 articles that we're currently discussing, Turkey is going through a really difficult time, and we need to make decisions that will support our people as much as possible, every sector, every citizen, but what we've brought is that our proposals to support and cover a much wider audience have not been accepted. During these talks, we have informed our friends, especially whether we have a commissioner or a concerned friend. What we're saying is not beyond the meaning of these 20 articles being brought in. The proposals of the Republican People's Party, in whatever state these 20 articles were brought in, were suggestions that would include all of our citizens, that would spread to the wider ground, but none of them were accepted.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0305par0069	Just a minute, please.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0308par0070	However, in these difficult times of our nation and our country, we feel it is not right to oppose the decisions we will make together, especially in matters that are right. The opposition's duty is to support the ruling decision when it comes to it. That's what we're going to be supportive of, but since we're interviewing the Group Vice Presidents and our other friends, we're going to make it a mission here, and we're going to share our inadmissible clauses with the public. I'd like to report to the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0309par0073	Thank you. I'm having the third motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the following clause be added to the current Law Proposal of 196 rows and other substances be identified accordingly. The following temporary clause has been added to Law 41-4447. The sentence for short work applications on grounds of compelling grounds for new coronavirus (Covid-19) -- which is valid until 23-30/6/2020 -- is applied in the third joke of Article 2 -- to ensure that the worker earns short labour allowance, except for the dissolution of the claim on unemployment insurance, has been paid for 450 days in the last three days, from those who have been subject to the service actuation date of short labor. Those who do not carry this condition continue to take advantage of the last unemployment allowance as short as the right to work as long as it lasts. In order to benefit from short work practices under this clause, employees must not be removed by the employer, except for the reasons included in Article 25 of Law No. 4857 (II) during the short working period. Applying for this clause will be concluded within 60 days of the application date. The President is authorized to extend the application date to 31/12/2020 and to differentiate the days set in the first joke. Mehmet Mush Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bayram Özçelik Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0310par0089	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0309par0090	I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new item. Anyone? No. I submit the new item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the following clause be added to the current Law Proposal of 196 rows and other substances be identified accordingly. The following temporary clause has been added to the Law on the Evaluation of Unmovable Property of Treasure No. 4706, dated 42-29/6/2001, and the Amendment to the Adding Value Tax Act. The rent, which should be collected between 1/4/2020 dates and 30/6/2020 dates, will be granted a definite permit, absolute permit, permission to use, benefits, and benefits from the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, regardless of whether or not to establish or not to use the rights provided by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, will be issued by the same period, regardless of whether or not they are allowed to use them. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is in charge of determining the procedures and foundations for the implementation of this clause. Mehmet Mush Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bayram Özçelik Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0311par0104	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0309par0105	I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new item. Anyone? No.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0312par0107	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to take a word with you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0309par0108	Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0312par0111	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, it is certain that all of these measures we've taken will provide partial comfort in today's conditions, but let's pray that this epidemic does not continue for much longer; and if it continues for a long period, I want to make it very clear that none of these measures will mean anything. I mean, it's like an aspirin cure, but our hope, our hope, our hope, our Niys, is that this plague thing has finally found its way. We agreed to support this package because it was in the best interests of our citizens, but with that, we have a few demands. Here, I'd like to present them in your presence -- we've delivered them to our group -- one of which is that we want the support of the household, guaranteed to spend. How? We want the treasure to distribute zero interest bonds in proportion to the size of the house to the household. To keep my consumption alive, let the VAT rates in all products reset by the end of June, and for the rest of the year, 50 percent off, at least by the end of the year. We have a lot of citizens who are on furlough, who work on wages, who depend on the sale of their salary, so, in accordance with the principle of equality, we demand that their credit card, consumer and need loan payments be postponed and restructured for three months. In this frame, we find the change in partial work grants positive, but not enough. We have a request for all of our employees to be covered and to use the money from the unemployment fund here. It's fair to raise your basic pension 500 liras to 1,500 liras, but to us, it's an inappropriate step. He made a statement that there was a new package prepared by the head of Justice and Development Party Group and the President of the Commission. We demand that all pensions be raised to 500 liras, and their needy pensions be raised to 1,500 liras. Because of the slowing down in the world's trade, the revenue flow is at stake. We demand six months of zero interest interest and a year of low-interest business loans to export companies. In no time, delay our workers' loan payments to the Agriculture Bank for three months and at the end of three months, set them up with zero interest rates for a year. There is no convenience shown to farmers in this package, I specifically state. For students, we demand that student loan repayment, which is already in trouble under normal circumstances, be postponed for three months, as well. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0313par0121	Anyone? No. I submit the new item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the following clause be added to the current Law Proposal of 196 rows and other substances be identified accordingly. The statement added after the first sentence of the joke was changed in the first verse of Article 64 of Article 4857, dated 43 - 22/5/2003. The president is authorized to double that time. Mehmet Mush Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bayram Özçelik Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0314par0133	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0313par0134	I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new item. Anyone? No. I submit the new item to your votes: Those who don't... Sustained. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the following clause be added to the current Law Proposal of 196 rows and other substances be identified accordingly. In the third part of Article 3 of Law 44 - 5510, "the fields have been changed from those who worked in line with the first joke of Article 9 of this law. Mehmet Mush Isaac Gazel Orhan Yegin Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bayram Özçelik Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0315par0146	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0313par0147	I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new item. Anyone? No. I submit the new item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the following clause be added to the current Law Proposal of 196 rows and other substances be identified accordingly. In the first sentence of Article 88 of Law 45 - 5510, "workers are removed from the first text of the article "in the form of workers, " or" fields " in the form of fields, " which is changed in the form of "efficiency" in the form of "efficiency of "Episaries" and "effected in the form of the first part of Article 9 of the Law. " Mehmet Mush Isaac Gazel Orhan Yegin Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bayram Özçelik Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0316par0159	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0313par0160	I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new item. Anyone? No. I submit the new item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the following clause be added to the current Law Proposal of 196 rows and other substances be identified accordingly. On the date of the payment, which was included in the first joke of Article 46 - 5510 of the Law, the term was changed to "the month in which the festival was held. " Mehmet Mush Isaac Gazel Orhan Yegin Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bayram Özçelik Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0317par0172	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0313par0173	I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new item. Anyone? No. I submit the new item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the following clause be added to the current Law Proposal of 196 rows and other substances be identified accordingly. "MEDDE 47 - 5510 has been changed in the form of "1.000 (Impression) " in the first verse of Article 19 of Law No. 47 - 5510. Mehmet Mush Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bayram Özçelik Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0318par0185	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0313par0186	I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new item. Anyone? No. I submit the new item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the following clause be added to the current Law Proposal of 196 rows and other substances be identified accordingly. The following temporary clause has been added to the Law on the disregard of credit and credit cards due to loans and loan cards due to Czech Non-refundable and Protested Certificates No. 5834, dated 48, 22/1/2009. "CISE 2- (1) The payment date of the principal and/or payment date was before 24/3/2020; Turkey's Union of banks, where real and legal persons who are failing to pay their payments on the money, interest and/or ferries used by the foreign and non-employees, the check, the protested bond, the credit card and other loans, and the additional 1st article of the Banking Law, which is set up under the provision of its additional 1 th article, which is set up under the provision of the Turkish Union, which is held by real and legal persons who are engaged in commercial activity and non-responsored, and by the non-refundsponsible checks, the protested bond, credit card, credit card and other loans, and other loans, which have been issued by the financial institutions and other companies. (2) The restructuring of existing loans or using new loans under the first joke sentence of loan companies and financial institutions does not raise legal and criminal responsibility for these organisations," he said. Mehmet Mush Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bayram Özçelik Isaac Gazel Orhan Yegin Erkan Akçay Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0319par0202	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0313par0203	I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new item. Anyone? No. I submit the new item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the following clause be added to the current Law Proposal of 196 rows and other substances be identified accordingly. "MEDDE 49 - 14/12/2009 and Czech Law 5941 added the following temporary clause. "The execution of those convicted for the crimes committed in Article 5- (1) Article 5 of Article 24/3/2020 will be halted as of the date when this clause is in effect. From the date of his release, he has to pay a tenth of the check's non-payment in three months at the latest. If he pays the remaining part in fifteen installments, two months apart from the end of the six-month period, the court decides to eliminate the sentence with all the consequences. As of six months from the time the execution was halted, a tenth of the check's non-payment will be ordered to proceed with the execution of the sentence on the complaint of the creditors. If he does not pay one of the convicted installments for the first time in his lifetime, this installment will be added as an installment at the end of the period. If he does not pay one of the remaining installments, the court will decide that the sentence will be carried out upon the complaint of the creditors. (2) If the execution of the government is halted, punishment will not take effect. (3) In accordance with this clause, the court may decide on the person whose execution has been halted by the third clause of Article 109 of the Penal Code (a) of the court. (4) In accordance with this clause, the executive court is in charge of the verdict. In accordance with this clause, all decisions are made by the court to be delivered to the creditors. (5) Under this clause, appeals against decisions can be taken in the course of the law. In the examination of the objection, the appeal is carried out in Article 353 of the Court and Bankruptcy Act. (6) These provisions can only be applied once for each crime. Mehmet Mush Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bayram Özçelik Ali Özkaya Isaac Gazel Abdullah Güler Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0320par0223	Mr. President, we agree mostly, but I'd like to make a point. Here, six months have been changed into three months. In the first sentence, this change was made, but the following two sentences remained for six months. Therefore, I request that they be replaced by three months by a copy of the script.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0313par0225	Yes, it will be processed in the direction you say it will be. I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new item. Anyone? No. I submit the new item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the following clause be added to the current Law Proposal of 196 rows and other substances be identified accordingly. ADADDE was changed to 35 percent of the 25 per cent of Article 26 of Article 26 of Unions (18/10/2012) and Article 26 of the Common Business Contract Act (6356) in the form of 35 per cent. Mehmet Mush Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bayram Özçelik Orhan Yegin Isaac Gazel Abdullah Güler Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0321par0240	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0313par0241	I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new item. Anyone? No. I submit the new item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the following clause be added to the current Law Proposal of 196 rows and other substances be identified accordingly. ADADDE 5/12/2019 and Digital Service Tax 7194 have been changed to 1st Article (b) of Article 52 (i.e., Article 5/1/1/1/2021) in some Laws and Law 375 (i.e., Article 5/12/2019). Mehmet Mush Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bayram Özçelik Orhan Yegin Isaac Gazel Erkan Akçay Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0322par0253	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0313par0254	I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new item. Anyone? No. I submit the new item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the following clause be added to the current Law Proposal of 196 rows and other substances be identified accordingly. "In an effort to prevent loss of rights in the field due to the presence of COVID-19 pandemics in our country; A) All times related to litigation, execution follow-up, application, appeal, appeal, notice, notice, deadlines, derogation and mandatory administrative deadlines including the birth, use or end of a right; 6/1/1982, and other laws with which the statute of law has been appointed by the Court of Appeals, dated 4/12/2004, and the Penal Court Act 12/1/2011, and the statute of Rights and the statute of Rights of Rights, which includes the statute of Rights and the end; 6/1/1982, and the deadlines set by which have been appointed by the Court of Appeals and the statute of Appeals (inditions dated 4/12/2004) and 13/1/201). B) 9/6/1932 deadlines set in other laws relating to Articles and Bankruption Law 2004, and the deadlines appointed by the judges or executive and bankruptcy agencies in this scope; all executions and bankruptcy follow-ups, side and follow-up requests for new execution and bankruptcy, procedures relating to the execution and execution of foreclosure decisions 22/3/2020 (including this date) from 30/4/2020 (including this date) to date. These periods begin to take place from the day it follows the day it expires. As of the date it began, 15 days and less are now at the end of the deadline, 15 days are now long to begin the day that follows the deadline. If the outbreak continues, the President can extend his time of stopping once in six months and narrow down the scope of the period. These decisions are published in the Official Gazette. (2) The following periods are outside the scope of this clause: A) The statute of limitations on crime and punishment, misdemeanor and administrative sanctions and disciplinary arrest and law enforcement. B) The duration of the protection measures carried out in Law 5271. C) The duration of the procedures carried out by Law 6100 in accordance with the precautionary measure. (3) Under other laws relating to Law 2004 and Purchasing Law; A) If the day of the sale, declared by the executive and bankruptcy agencies for property or rights remains on hold, the day of the sale will be given without a new demand for this property or rights period. In this case, a sales ad is only done electronically, and no charge for the ad, B) A voluntary payment is accepted during the duration of the stop, and one of the parties may demand that transactions be carried out in favour of the other. C) The credit and debt consequences of the concordato period continue for the duration of the recession, Other measures are taken to ensure that executive and bankruptcy services remain intact. (4) All other measures, including the postponement of the hearings and talks during the time of the halt, should be taken and the basis for this; A) The Council of Presidents concerned with the Supreme Court and the Court, B) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors in terms of first-degree judicial and administrative judicial authorities and the district court and district administration courts, C) Ministry of Justice in terms of justice services, determines. (PHP 3, PHP 4) Mehmet Mush Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bayram Özçelik Isaac Gazel Orhan Yegin Abdullah Güler Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0323par0285	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0313par0286	I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new item. Anyone? No. I submit the new item to your votes: Those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the following clause be added to the current Law Proposal of 196 rows and other substances be identified accordingly. "The inability to pay the rent fee, which will take place from 2- (1) 1/3/202020 to 30/6/2020, does not constitute dissolution of the lease agreement and evacuation. Mehmet Mush Mehmet Doğan Kubat Erkan Akçay Isaac Gazel Abdullah Güler Orhan Yegin Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0324par0300	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0313par0301	I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new item. Anyone? No. I submit the new item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, the proposal has been added to 15 new articles. In order not to cause any confusion, the motion operations on matter will then be continued through the number of items in the current number of rows in the text, which will be identified in the matter numbers during the drafting of the law. There is one motion on Article 39: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change of the 39th article of the current Law Proposal of 196 rows to be changed in the following way. "MADDE 52- (1) This Law; A) on the date of its release from 2nd, 15th and 29th articles, to be implemented from 1/1/2020, B) On the date of the release of Articles 16 and 17 from 31/12/2019, C) Articles 33 and 34 on 1/1/2021, ) In the date of the release of Article 41 from 29/2/2020, D) At the beginning of the month, which followed the release of articles 44th and 45th, E) The 47th article was published in April 2020 in the date of its release from the period of payment, F) In the date of its release of other substances, It's in effect. Mehmet Mush Mehmet Doğan Kubat Erkan Akçay Orhan Yegin Bayram Özçelik Isaac Gazel Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0325par0324	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0313par0325	I'm reading the reason for the motion: The motion aims to restructure the application clause in accordance with changes made in the proposal. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted on Article 39, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit the 40th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. Congressmans, the Plan and Budget Commission has a request according to Article 89 of the Interior Charter, which will meet this request in accordance with Article 89, concerning the renegotiation of Article 20 of the proposed law. I'm having the advisory board read the Commission's motion to renegotiate Article 20 of the law proposed by the Commission: The motion of the Plan and Budget Commission to renegotiate Article 20 of Law Proposal 196 in the meeting held Tuesday (24/3/2020) has been adopted according to Article 89 of the Interior Charter. Mehmet Mush Engin Özkoç Merkel Danış Beştaş Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party Peoples' Democratic Party His group is acting president of the vice president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party GOOD PARTY His group is acting president of the vice president group. You will be informed of the opinion of the Council of Counsellors. Now I'll have the Commission read your request and vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose renegotiation under Article 89 of the Civil Code, so that Article 20 of Law Proposal 196 can be reconsidered according to new developments. President of Plan and Budget Commission I submit the commission's request to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In that case, I am renegotiating Article 20 of the proposal. Anyone want a word on Article 20? No. There's one motion on matter, and I'm reading it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of Law Proposal No. 196 was added to the 20th article "in the form of real and legal persons and commercial enterprises and to the terms of the framework "after the declaration of the placement. " Mehmet Mush Mehmet Doğan Kubat Asuman Erdoğan Fehmi Albay Özalan Orhan Yegin Bekir Force Erim Ramazan Can Semiha Ekinci Recep Special Sermin Balık Vildan Yılmaz Gürel Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0326par0374	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-24sit06spe0313par0375	I'm reading the reason for the motion: In order to develop financing opportunities for firms to develop and contribute to the effective functioning of the credit system under the interim Article 20/5 of Law on the Order of Public Finance and Loan Management 4749, the motion also envisions increasing access to loans from individuals, including institutions providing bail for their loans. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, in accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire proposal is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and in spite of that help, the members who can't get into the system will have their ballots delivered to the presidency within the time they're given. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I'm reading the result of an open vote by Denizli MP Nilgün Ök and 46 MPs to make changes to some Laws. ▪ Number of votes used: 254 [[x]] This conclusion says the offer is accepted and legalized, and good luck. We will resume the talks of Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Sentop and 1 MP of the African Development Bank's Association Agreement on the Changing of the Law and Foreign Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. In the 71st Union, dated 19/3/2020, the talks of Law Proposal No. 197 were completed. Before the entire proposal is voted, there is no demand for a word in favor or against the Article 86 of the Civil Code. The negotiations are complete. The entire proposal is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you a minute to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and in spite of this help, the members who cannot get into the system will be able to deliver the ballots to the presidency within the time envisioned for the vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I'm reading the clear result of the Law Proposal on the Changing of the Law on the Compulsory Agreement of the African Development Bank of Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Sentop and 1 MP: ▪ Number of votes used: 241 [[x]] According to this, the offer has been accepted and legalized. The issues on our agenda are complete. In accordance with the decision taken, it is Wednesday (March 25th 2020) that we discuss law proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday (March 2020). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
