tbmm-2020-10-13sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 4th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. I'm taking a break from the merger until 15.30.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the second session of the 4th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement is the president of the Republican People's Party and the president of the Republican People's Party Group
tbmm-2020-10-13sit02spe0002par0008	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, dear friends, there are fights in politics, there are criticisms, and sometimes the size of those criticisms can be very harsh, but I believe that all the members of parliament who serve in this Parliament are on the side of justice, they are on the side of justice, they are on the side of the law. We can hurt each other, but it's our duty to all respond together when there's an injustice. What we call justice is the most noble concept in the world. All the prophets have come for justice. The foundation of mankind is justice, the religion of the state is justice, and the foundation of the state is justice. Injustice... it is our duty to respond to a person, a race, a race, a sect, whatever his beliefs, when someone is confronted with injustice... and to have a scales of justice on their conscience. If we look at it like this, we'll give Parliament dignity. The honorable parliament is a parliament that provides justice. How do we get justice? There are rules of justice, and if everyone obeys those rules, justice will be done. Our country has a Constitution, whether we like it or don't like it, we don't criticize it or criticize it, but it binds us all. In some way, we all have to fulfill the requirements of this Constitution, otherwise we cannot become a state of law. What's a legal state? It's the state that gets justice. Let me read the article of the Constitution, my dear friends: 1 1 - basic rules of law linking constitutional provisions, legislative, executive and judicial bodies, administrative authorities, and other institutions and persons. Laws can't be unconstitutional. We make laws from time to time, we go to the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court cancels. We, not the executive body, as the legislature, follow the Constitutional Court's rule of law of 600 MPs. Yes, the Constitutional Court said that this is against the Constitution. Where do we get our strength, our legitimacy? We get it from the public, the citizen votes for us, and we come here. So, who's overseeing us? The Constitutional Court is overseeing it, and we have to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, and we do because otherwise we can't be a state of law. Now, dear friends, another article of the Constitutional Court of Constitution, Article 153, is immediately published in the Official Gazette, which connects the legislative, executive and judicial bodies, the administrative authorities, the real and regulatory authorities, and not only the legislative body, but also the executive body and the executive authorities and the judicial bodies, and they will all fit in. Now, the legislative body meets the Constitutional Court's decision; the legislature corrects it if its regulation is contrary to the Constitution, but a judicial body, the subjudicial body says: I will not abide by the Constitutional Court's decisions. My dear friends, according to this Constitutional Court, I will not abide by this decision. If it says so, we have a problem there, there is decay there; we must all intervene in this decay. The state is the state of all of us, the flag is the flag of all of us, and the country is the country of all of us. Oh, we may think differently, we may have different opinions, but we have a common denominator; the common denominator is people. When this Constitution went to the referendum, it went; when it was voted, it was voted; when it was accepted, it was approved. It binds me, it binds Parliament, it binds the Constitutional Court, but a court says, "No, I will not abide by the Constitutional Court's decision." It stinks of salt, guys! So the citizen says, "What tax do you want from me, brother, and I don't pay taxes?" If the Constitutional Court is not complied, why should I obey the governor's decision, and why should I obey the governor's decision, and why should I fulfill the request of the chief of the IRS? We're all responsible here, we're not supposed to be setting the stage for chaos. So it's not a fight zone, it's a court of justice. What do they call justice? All the world's scholars have defined justice, talked about justice. So do we; when you look deep into history, the scholars of the Islamic world and other worlds of different beliefs have always stood on justice. Justice stands in its fixed place like a polar star, but the whole universe revolves around it. Who? The Lord Almighty. So when there is a decision that enrages justice, shall we remain silent, or shall we say: Was it better? Shall we say: Shall we smite a little more? And when a soul is wronged, shall we overlook the wrong that is done to it? ▪ Let the serpent who has not touched me live. Shall we expel his understanding from this land, or shall we be enslaved to that understanding? We all have our responsibilities, dear friends. Like I said, we have different parties, right; we have different opinions, right; our world view is different, right; maybe our identities, our beliefs are different, but we live in a country. It's up to all of us to turn this place into heaven, and we're gonna do it together. This is the public's bench. We sit on this bench and we can speak freely, we can criticize each other, but when the time comes, we all obey the Constitution, we follow the rules. We stop at the red light, we don't even have the police, we stop at the red light, because the green light will go on. Now we don't leave the red, we don't leave the green, we don't leave the yellow, we mix all the colors, and so we have to follow the rules, the rules, the rules that the citizen has to follow together. The fish smells from the top. They say, "Why do we make the fish smell from the top?" Does Parliament do its duty? Despite all my criticism, Parliament is doing its duty, and it is doing its law enforcement. A law by the legislature can't be passed by the judicial body. I don't enforce it. Three forces, legislation, judgment, and governance, need to control each other. There's no power left unsupervised. Unsupervised power is not power at all. In order for power to show its power, it needs a healthy audit, it needs to be determined. If the court that's going to break up justice doesn't hand out justice, then we have a problem there. The Constitutional Court decides that I will not abide by the Constitutional Court's decision. Well, then, who are we going to go to? Who do we go to? I don't abide by the Constitutional Court's decision.................................... we'll start over, start over, start over, start over, retrial proceedings?........................................... My request from all my fellow lawmakers is that we take care of our own country, of our own Parliament, of our own flag, of our own Constitution, even if we at least criticize it. What does that mean? A judge will come out and say, "I don't obey your decision." Well, then let's close the Supreme Court, close the trial, and everyone will read what they know. What then dominates a country? The law of the jungle rules. The mind goes aside; the mind goes aside, the rule goes aside, the law of the forest dominates. Whoever's got a strong bicep, whoever's got a gun, comes up with that power. This is the shame of the 21st century. This was in the darkness of the Middle Ages. In the 21st century, there's wisdom, there's logic, there's justice, there's justice, there's the search for justice; we're doing all this. Is anyone not being unfair? A lot of people have been wronged, we all have a moment in our lives, in some way, in school, in class, in friends, in the street; but a court, knowing a higher court's decision, I won't apply it. If it says so, it stinks of salt, friends, and we all need to sit down and question a conscience.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit02spe0003par0020	Mr. Kilicdaroglu, can we wrap this up, sir?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit02spe0002par0021	I'll put you through, Mr. President. I'll put a member of the public's elected MP in prison... lf you can throw him out, the conscience of the community will bleed, then our conscience will bleed too. Then why are we going to people? Let there be no choice tomorrow, nor let there be no choice. I say, let there be 500, let there be 600, let there be 600, let there be no choice, let there be no need. So each of us has its basic concepts, every party has its basic goals, its basic goals. In that frame, regardless of what party we're from, whatever city we're from, we have to honor the concept of justice, and I think that all lawmakers are going to make this conscience grow, and I give you all respect, precious MPs.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit02spe0003par0024	The second off-the-book statement belongs to Hatay MP Lütfi Spooner, who asked for a comment on the fires in Hatay. Here you go, Mr. Spooner.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit02spe0004par0028	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath on behalf of the Milliyetian Movement Party Group regarding the forest fire that started last Friday in Belen district of Hatay, which has been burning hundreds of hectares in the districts of Alexanderun and Arsez for two days. I salute your high council. Precious lawmakers, as it is known, jumped to their settlements last Friday (February 10th) in the area of Sarımazı neighborhood in Belen district of Hatay Province, where fire was fired by the wind. And it went forth unto Alexander, and unto Arrogant. Thousands of our citizens in the burning and risky area have been evacuated safely from their homes. The disaster that brought our hearts into our mouths and drove everyone who heard and saw to fear has severely affected our local people and the beauty of nature. I hereby offer my condolences to all of our Hatay's citizens, especially our citizens who are affected by the fire. We also give thanks to the great Turkish nation, who have made us feel their presence through their prayers and support in the process of supporting each other through the fear of two days, on behalf of the people of Hatay. From the start of the fire to the end, I'd like to express our gratitude and gratitude to the heroic staff of the Forest Service, our firefighters, the AFAD employees, especially our Governor, who has mobilized all the power of our state, especially from the start of the fire. I would also like to thank Mr. Minister of Agriculture and our Home Secretary, who supported us as soon as the fire was over. Thank you, Mr. President of the Millitarian Movement Party, who followed the developments in our province during this fire and led a delegation to Mevlüt Karakaya and sent it to our province and supported us. I had an incident that night, and I've got some friends that I'd like to share with you, and I'd like to thank them from here. Around 3 p.m., there's a site in the town of Belen called the Petek Site in the Fatih District -- about 300-400 dwellings -- that was about 10 meters away from the fire. We were there that night, and I thank the Mayor of Belen, who took the fire hose and jumped into that fire so that the fire didn't reach those sites, Mr. Abdulkadir Special Bey, again Seyfullah Gürbuz Beye, Cihan Akyerekoğlu Bey, Hasan Güçük and Ömer Yücel Bey who jumped into the fire. Dear lawmakers, no doubt the Republic of Turkey's state is strong and capable, wherever they are burned, wherever they are burned, our hope is greener than ever before. We believe that all means will be carried out and the wounds of the disaster will be healed, and the losses and the losses will be made up without delay. The other thing that burns us as much as our burning forests is the sharing of social media in parallel with the fire by a group of degenerates and scoundrels who call themselves the children of fire. But what we do know is that these are the children of the demon, the jackals of betrayal. (MHP and AK PARTY APPLAUSE) It is the most urgent need for these bastards, whose children are essentially unknown, to be caught and burned as soon as possible, to be taken into account for their actions. While our heroes shield their breasts from the burning fire of love for the country and nation, they will be struck by every member of the Turkish nation, including the Hatays, who have attacked the Turkish nation and its values, and the separatist organization that has stepped on this fire. Dear lawmakers, the course of the fire is a strong consideration of the possibility of sabotage, as our Minister put it. Our government's research is ongoing, but the Hatays have not left this attack on social media unanswered.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit02spe0005par0037	Go ahead.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit02spe0004par0038	We have filed a criminal complaint against Alexander's Public Prosecutor's Office yesterday regarding the accounts we've identified. These social media attacks have once again demonstrated the importance of the social media law, which was discussed several months ago and passed by the Supreme Assembly's votes. Of course, the necessary measures to prevent forest fires must be taken and the starting forest fires must be quickly intervened. Investigations on involuntary fires must be carried out carefully, and if there is, criminals must be brought to justice. However, while all this is being done, those who have written and verbal attacks on the values of the Turkish nation, assuming the square is empty on social media, must be kept in constant pursuit and must be punished as much as those who commit the crime. At the very least, they must be prevented from provoking and provoking our nation by blocking access. Also, the media media organs should be carefully observed as the fire continues, forcing a relationship between the burning places and the mines and surprising the target in the face of a possible sabotage. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear lawmakers, the protection of our forests is of great importance to both our country and our world. The climate generation in which our home is not very suitable for growing forests, taking time for the destroyed ecosystem to be ready to grow forests again, the fact that our topographical structure is prone to decay increases the importance of protecting our existing forests. Let's not forget that forests are very important to humanity, not just for our country, but for the consequences that come when they don't need benefits. Finally, I would like to say that no power will be able to stir up the land of Tayfur Sökmen, the relic of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit02spe0006par0047	The third unscheduled statement belongs to Mr. Huseyin Yayman, a member of Hatay MP who asked for a comment on forest fires in Turkey and especially in Hatay. Here you go, Mr. Sagittarius.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit02spe0007par0051	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute our Veteran Assembly and the great Turkish nation, especially our fellow citizens from Hatay at the top of the screen. Mr. President, I wish you all the best in the new era of life. I wish all our citizens, all our provinces, to be well-pleased with the fires that have taken over all Turkey, which have arisen in different geographys. To all the creatures who have died in the wild, all the forest fires in the Aegean, Hatay Samandağ, Hatay Samandağ, Kazantı, Kozandir, Andirın, Kahramanmarash, Osmaniye, Tripoli, and all the animals who have died in the wild. The burning of our trees has created a great void that can't really be replaced, but at the beginning of my words here, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who came to the forest fire on September 5th and spent 90 to three hours in Hatay and stayed in the caravan and followed the fire to be extinguished, our Minister of Agriculture and Forest, Bekir Pakdemirli, who came and shared our pain with our President's instructions yesterday; their support, their blessing, has been difficult for our nation. Mr. President, good lawmakers, forest fires don't just affect our country, they affect the world. From Brazil to America, from the United States to Australia, there have been several months of forest fires that have burned millions of hectares that have lasted for days. In our Hatay, the forest fire that began in Samandag, Seldiren and Yeniköy, which began in Hezenduzü, which began in Belen (last week), and began in Belen (last week) again, and affected our barracks, and Issume (Issume), and the village of Belen. Thank God for the forest fire that struck our Karahuseyin neighborhood. Even a citizen didn't bleed his nose, even a citizen's life. This is a very important development. Again, the work of our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, our Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the AFAD officials continues. Damage detection in this area will be done immediately, and the loss of goods of our citizens -- no casualties -- will be carried out immediately. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we need to underline here that there are a lot of speculation about this burning area. From the very beginning of the fire, with our Governor, Haci Bayram Türkoğlu, with our MP, Abdulkadir Special Deputy, again with our Sabat Özgürsoy Çelik, Hüseyin Şanverver MPs, our mayor and our organization, our Forest Service, our security forces, again many of our people, with the sense of mobilization of our most valued citizens, with the efforts of their lives, thank God. Unfortunately, in Hatay, a gang of evil, its network is constantly speculating about those burning forests here. Despite Mr. Secretary's explanation, here, ulterior motives are trying to find a way into the dark atmosphere, trying to fish in the murky water again. Once again, we call from the seat of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: The burning forests are under the constitutional guarantee of our state. All fields will be reforestationed, and they will never be allowed to be assigned to the mines, to be used in any way as agricultural fields, to be built. There's a statement from Mr. Bekir Pakdemirli, our Minister of Agriculture and Forest today, which I think is very, very important. What our Minister says is that not one square meter of burning forest areas in Hatay will be built, and this entire area will be planted from cover to cover. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, dear lawmakers, from the start of the fire in Belen, our hearts are burning. We give thanks to the sports community of our civil society, from our citizens, to all our nation, to the sports community of Hatay in its understanding.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit02spe0008par0062	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit02spe0007par0063	If it weren't for their support, maybe with this motivation, we wouldn't be able to work so hard to get the fires out. Again, in accordance with the instructions of our Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, on November 11th, our Hatay will begin gardening in this area. Over the past year, only one million 333,000 saplings have been planted in our Hatay - a situation that has made us all very, very proud and happy, in line with the Inhalation Campaign for the Future. In Hatay, we are working together as politicians to say that Hatay is the rest of the story. And from here, from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we call to this evil gang: Whatever you say, be the children of whomever you are, we are proud to be the children of this saint nation, the children of the Turkish nation, and our nation will give you the biggest answer.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit02spe0008par0067	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit02spe0007par0068	Mr. President, thank you for your leniency, thank you for your kindness. This is important because those who really want to stir our country through forest fire, those who want to stir up Hatay's geography, the cradle of civilizations, will really get the answer they deserve from our nation. A few moments ago, Mr. Lütfi Spooner, our esteemed MP of the Cumhur Alliance, spoke. Really, we're signing under these conversations, he's signing under my speech, I'm signing under his speech. Here, in fact, our Republican People's Party MP was going to speak, and against this gang of evils, we are really, in turn, a personal matter, as Hatay-Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said. Hatay is the legacy of the Typhour Sökmen, who chose to become a province of this country rather than a state, and to our President, who has supported us in this matter from beginning to end, to our President, who calls us, asks us, and follows these matters closely, to our ministers, before you, I give our thanks once again, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit02spe0008par0070	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit02spe0009par0071	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit02spe0008par0072	If you'll excuse me, just a minute... Congressmans, yes, I care a lot about Hatay, as you all do, and I'd like to say a few things: fires that occur on a period of time in our world called tolerance and a model city called Hatay, in which the sound of a rich culture is mixed with the sound of persecution, bell and hazzan; in which people like Muslims, Christians, Jews, can live in peace, love, and brotherhood; in which there are some people who are disturbed by this brotherhood. Although these futile efforts will not harm our brotherhood and our unity, it is evident that they are not in the same direction as the fires in many parts of our country. It is our responsibility as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to make the necessary legal arrangements for the deterrent of forest fires, and also to prevent and take necessary measures. I send my wishes to every citizen who lives in our Hatay, and curse those who harm our forests and all living things, no matter what the purpose. Today is the headquarters of our Liberation War, the 97th anniversary of Turkey's heart becoming Ankara's capital. On this occasion, I remember all our heroes, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, with mercy and gratitude, celebrating the 97th year of Ankara's capitalization. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Free.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit02spe0010par0081	Mr. President, this is an extraordinary day, and we're having an extraordinary day in Turkey where the Constitution is suspended. Of course, we say that Turkey is in a process of unconstitution, and there are strong indications of that, but today another mile has been exceeded, and a lower court has declared that it does not recognise the Constitutional Court's decision. In this extraordinary situation, in a rare way in the House, Mr. President has arrived, and they have discussed this matter outside the agenda. I've contacted Mr. Group Vice Presidents of the other groups, and I'm appealing to you. We request a brief recess, and our group will have a request from the other Deputy Group Presidents to assess our situation, and we have a brief request for a meeting in your presidency to deliver it, sir.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit02spe0008par0082	Thank you, Mr. Special. Are there any other members of the Group Vice President who would like another word?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit02spe0011par0084	Yeah.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit02spe0008par0085	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit02spe0011par0087	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, between parties, these kinds of demands are kept by courtesy and recess. There's nothing wrong with taking a break; let's have tea, let's talk about it, let's talk about it. However, in this matter, in the speech of Mr. President General just now, we never found it right to respond out of courtesy to the President General, but when Mr. Free brought it up again, we wanted to reconsider. It's an important issue, I admit, but I think it's helpful to decide that the Supreme Court is as much a court of law as the Supreme Court is a court of this country, knowing that both the Supreme Court and the other courts are a court of law. There's trouble with a trial, there's a process. It's the issue of this judgment, mostly. So we opened the coven late today, so let's take a break now, all right, but considering that's just our agenda, we'd be starting to make another mistake. We're here for legislature activities. We pass our opinion on issues, our opinions from the platform, we criticize them, and I say more than that, because the opinion of parliament is important in every crisis, because of the opinion of parliament, especially the CHP, I'm going further, if there are constitutional amendment demands, we'll evaluate them, but it's not the way to start late, not the way to take a break, but rather the way to bring up ways to focus more on legislature activities, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit02spe0008par0089	Thank you. Mr. Group Vice Presidents, I think that in order to get the legislatures faster and better, this matter has to be resolved in some way, because in the future, it's going to be on the agenda all the time in the General Assembly. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to take a ten-minute break from the merger, call our Group Presidents in the back, and let's do the next legislature talks more, like this, effectively. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0008par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the third session of Turkey's 4th Union of the Grand National Assembly. Congressmans, I'm going to make a moment of my word to the first 20 MPs to enter the system. Mr. Arik? Probably not. Mr. Butcher...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0012par0006	Thank you, Mr. President. He was the victim of urban transformation in Osmangazi neighbourhood, where about 5,000 people lived in Kütahya. Our citizens in Osmangazi neighborhood want a return in place. Those who decide on urban transformation want to force residents out of the area, injustice is being done. There's been no internet in the neighborhood for about three months. What conscience would it be to drive people out of their homes unfairly and unlawfully? While rights and freedoms should be maintained in urban transformation practice, this practice is the result of unlawful conduct. Lawlessness appears in all areas in Turkey. We live in a country where salt stinks, where the Constitutional Court decisions don't even apply. Justice will be necessary for all of us one day. Again, we call it justice, justice, justice. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0013par0010	Mr. Chepni...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0014par0012	Thank you, Mayor. Surveillance and arrests have become a form of governance. Remove these difficult devices, and that leaves a third-rate family company. The Socialist Party of the Crushed has been subjected to a new conspiracy operation almost every week, every month. Co-Chairs, executives, members are being detained, arrested. The ESP will, of course, grow stronger from these attacks as a party that has developed a revolution and the struggle for socialism against capitalism, imperialism, fascism and all kinds of regression. HDP and all democratic forces take their power from millions in the struggle for rights and truth, and the attackers take their power from a handful of capital bosses. Once again, as HDP and its components, our answer will be to raise the fight by organizing, saying, "Hope is standing up straight."
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0013par0014	Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0015par0016	Thank you, Mr. President. In our country, unfortunately, because human rights violations have been committed so intensively, the European Court of Human Rights has given the Justice and Development Party the right to an individual application to the Constitutional Court, which has so far been proud and boasted. The appeals to the Constitutional Court have also increased, unfortunately, because human rights violations are increasing day by day. One of them was the application of our Congressman Enis Berberoglu and the Constitutional Court ruled a breach, but the lower court ruled that it did not recognise the Supreme Court's decision. This has really disappointed me as a lawyer, and all our citizens. Well, then, does that give an execution officer the right not to follow the rulings of that lower court?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0013par0019	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0016par0021	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, I was planning on talking about pharmaceuticals today, but in our country, the agenda is moving so fast that the agenda changes from morning to noon, afternoon to afternoon. Just as we were having our group meeting, 14. The High Criminal Court has made a decision and has ignored the Supreme Court's decision to retribut Enis Berberoglu, which is the Supreme Court, and has created a court of law against this decision. If you kill justice in the country, the state will die, and the state will be destroyed, and someone will close the Constitutional Court, ignore the Court reports, even close the Court. At a time when they say, "Let the Court be closed." I think a lower court rejects the request to be retributed, ignoring the decision of the highest court. I'm saying that one day this illegality will shoot everyone, and I'm inviting everyone to go to law school.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0017par0024	Mr. Aydemir...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0018par0026	Mr. President, Bell and Karachoban are the two nadide districts of Erzurum, where His Majesty Ahmet Yasevi's coals are filled with abundant burdens; the people are munis, and the people are pure; they approve of every door that opens to beauty. The physical structures of each 2 counties are simply perfect; one is north, the other is south. In these two unique places, God-given gold beds have been exposed. It is expected to contribute $400 million to our economy after ten years of work in our county. In the areas of Karachoban, it was discovered that there was about two grams of gold in the ton. This also made clear the fact that the stone of Erzurum was gold. In the coming hours, tens of thousands of jobs and billions of statements are being transferred to the country's economy. As brothers-in-laws, we are grateful to the Ministry of Energy and investors who are making the work and making it easy.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0017par0027	Mr. Paper...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0019par0029	Thank you, Mr. President. With the NGO 696 of 20/11/2017, 900,000 workers working in public subcontracts have switched to government staffs or public-owned companies as workers. With this arrangement, the wages of transitioning workers are set for only 4 per cent every six months until 31/10/2020. Over the past three years, these brothers' salaries have been underpaid. Our financially difficult workers' salaries have melted with their pandemics. Talks are under way on the rise between unions and public staff fees. In this scope, our long-standing workers should be given the necessary raises, including the inflation gaps of the last three years since the arrangement, and I salute the General Assembly, he says.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0020par0032	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0021par0034	Mr. President, it is a legal scandal that the local court does not recognise the Constitutional Court's decision to retrial Enis Berberoglu. In a country where the lower court does not recognise a decision given by the upper court, there can be no mention of the rule of law, judicial independence and legal security. The fact that the local court does not recognise the Constitutional Court's decision is as if the mayor did not recognize the governor's decision, so to speak. Let no one mention that this decision made by the lower court is only about the judiciary, and this decision is political. We as lawyers know that when we get into law school, the first thing we learn is the pyramid of the law order. Now, shame on those who have publicly violated the Constitution and described themselves as jurisprudence by ignoring this pyramid.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0020par0037	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0022par0039	Mr. President, the Supreme Court has decided that our İstanbul MP Enis Berberoglu's parliamentary position has been unlawfully reduced and retributed. Today, however, a local court has made it clear that the Constitutional Court has been suspended, the Constitutional Court has not been recognised, and its decision has not been carried out. Arguing the existence of independent upper institutions, which are essential to the legal state, and not being recognized, will lead our country to great disasters. This is the most concrete result of understanding that destroys the Constitution, the legal state, independent institutions in our country, far beyond the delegation of an MP. As Parliament, I call on all lawmakers to take care of our Constitution and justice, which is the guarantee of our existence.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0023par0042	Mr. Tutdere...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0024par0044	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, Turkey's legal history has been blackened, despite a decision issued by the Constitutional Court on Mr. Berberoglu, a former member of the Veteran Assembly, today, 14th. The High Criminal Court has signed a political verdict, eliminating all legal customs and regulations in Turkey, with a decision that would be truly a disgrace to our legal history. 14. The High Criminal Court has violated both our Constitution and international contracts. From here, we call to this court openly: This practice that does not search the practices of the judges is a coup to the law. I invite all to obey the Constitution and the law. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0025par0047	Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0026par0049	Thank you, Mr. President. In the second quarter, the disaster of the century that brought world economies to a halt, unlike the pessimistic paintings, our informal domestic product rate grew by 0.9 percent, giving good results compared to the world's countries. My electoral district, Osmaniye, was Turkey's 37th largest economy in 2019 with $18.3m in illegal domestic revenues, while Turkey's third fastest-growing province across Turkey was replaced by Turkey's growing and strengthening economy. Congrats on our valuable industrialists and our employees who have signed on for this success. Hopefully, 2023, in light of our new economic programme under the leadership of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we will continue to work day and night to carry out sustainable policies that will lead our country to a top league in the economy. He says we'll have stability, our economy will grow, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0027par0053	Mr. Rock? Your Excessive...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0028par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. October 8-12, as it is known, is celebrated as the Memorial Cultural Week. In secularism, commercial and social life, it is a radical spiritual discipline furnace that combines moral values with professional principles. The representatives of today's organization are tradesmen and artists. As an EC PARTY, we have made many arrangements in favor of our tradesmen and artists for 18 years in our power. We've passed laws that regulate retail sectors in accordance with the demands of tradesmen and artists, and we've made regulations in tax legislation. As part of the Economic Stabilisation Shield, we have implemented trade support package and business credit packages. As an AK PARTY, we've always been there for our tradesman, and we will continue to be. And I salute the General Assembly, that I may celebrate the Week of the Requital of all our tradesmen and artists.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0029par0059	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0030par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. As the Republic of Turkey, we want security and prosperity for our region as well as for our country. We do not seek our own safety and prosperity in our neighbors' weakness or insecurity. For those who want to solve problems with our country at the table, Turkey is a state of high capacity for negotiation. Turkey is too powerful to submit to any threat to protect its rights. We don't have any pebbles or a drop of water to chase anyone. We are the most determined nation in the world about our land, our land of blue and our planet of heaven. We will defend our nation's rights and interests to the fullest. He says, "May the way be clear, and the way of the congregation be with you, when we go out on a holy journey in the Mediterranean, and wait for the good news." I salute the general assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0031par0064	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0032par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. Gandhi has an important saying:.... to break injustice with justice..... what a beautiful and meaningful promise. There is also a saying among the people: "The judge is convicted in the place where the accused is acquitted. " This is your judgment today. The trial of our elected public defender is over, approved by the Constitutional Court where he is acquitted, and should resume his post, while the local court disregards the Constitutional Court's decision. Let's just say that the justice system you run is questionable, but justice is our unconditional demand. Justice, one day everyone will need it.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0031par0068	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0033par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. The Constitutional Court decision on Mr. Enis Berberoglu is a decision of educational and educational nature. If Mr Berberoglu's immunity has been lifted in the 26th term, he has been granted immunity again under Article 83 of the Constitution for re-electing the MP in the next election -- the 27th term. Because Berberoğlu was re-elected as MP in the 27th term, security has been violated by the court because he cannot be held, questioned, or prosecuted, as the Constitution has been re-elected under Article 83. Enis Berberoglu's right to be elected in Article 67 of the Constitution and to perform political activities has also been violated by the Constitutional Court. Under the second joke of Article 50 of the Constitutional Court's Institution and Judicial Code, this decision must be eliminated along with all the consequences. Enis Berberoglu, a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, has a legal obligation to continue his post.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0031par0072	Mr. Bankoglu...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0034par0074	Yes, the Constitution was once again ignored in Turkey today. Istanbul 14. The High Criminal Court did not recognise the Constitutional Court and refused to retrial on Enis Berberoglu. However, the second joke of Article 50 of the Law on the Foundation of the Constitutional Court and Judiciary Code is clear, and the first-degree court has no discretion in retrial. Retribution here is also different from revampment of the law of procedure. I'm just saying that this decision is a clear example of the crucial point where power brings law. As soon as the Constitutional Court's ruling was issued, Enis Berberoglu should have actually earned the right to become a deputy. The fourth joke of Article 83 of the Constitution has already brought the condition for the removal of immunity. I say one day justice will be needed for all of us, and I feel the need to remind the ruling representatives of this place once again. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0031par0076	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0035par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. During the pandemic, our Ministry of National Education has made it quick and innovative for the children of our future to get used to the situation. Education has been onlineed with live lessons, creating a class environment, and it has also been successful. Our fellow teachers did special services, not just by training, but by volunteering in loyalty groups, and we thank them. Mr. President has announced that this week, in elementary schools, 8th and 12th classes, the education has started face-to-face. Our presidency and our Ministry have taken every precaution for the health of our students and made preparations for a face-to-face education. Of course, we can't compare distance or EBA training to face-to-face training. With the support of our ministry, our teachers, and our parents, we spend this process in a productive way, and we wish for a healthy education for all our children and education workers.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0036par0081	Mr. Karasu? No. Mr. Gunpowder? No. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0037par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. For our Istanbul MP Enis Berberoglu, who has been unfairly taken under the legislature of the Parliamentary General Assembly, the Constitutional Court, whose decision has been denied by the Supreme Court, which is the highest court, which has been brought down by the ruling party and its partner by the majority of the finger. This decision will take place as a black mark in our history of democracy as an example of unlawfulness and a clear proof that Enis Berberoglu's parliamentary position was dropped on political grounds, under the direction of the palace. It has once again come to light that the concepts that you do not drop from your tongue, such as national will, independent judgment, rule of law, are in the rule of destruction in this country. It's also a crime of duty, as it is under the rule of non-judgment that eliminates legal security. The local court, which works under instructions, has murdered the law. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0038par0089	Mr. Yilmakaya.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0039par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. Arguing, not recognizing, of the independent upper courts, which are essential to the legal state, will lead our country to great catastrophes. Justice will be needed for everyone one day. Perhaps even one day, many of our friends under the roof of this Parliament will need it. Therefore, the importance of justice is precious to all. For our MP Enis Berberoglu, the Supreme Court, which is the supreme court of the local court, it is obviously unlawful, unfair. The decision has been made by everyone, and it is known that it is a political decision. This is the greatest example of obvious injustice, beyond the delegation of an MP. I believe that with the knowledge that justice is necessary for all of us one day, this grand delegation will reach the point where justice will be served as soon as possible. As parliament, as all lawmakers, I call on all of us to take care of our Constitution and justice, which is a guarantee of our existence. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0040par0095	Mr. Sword... no. Mr. Esgin... no. Dear Sugar... no. Mr. Blackduman... no. Mr. Axeman... no. Mr. Cloud... no. Mr. Gül Yilmaz... no. Mr. Karahocagil... no. Mr. Aydoğan...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0041par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. The 14th article of the Constitution shall not be interpreted in any way in order to enable the State or individuals to destroy basic rights and freedoms that are recognised by the Constitution, or to act in a broader way than that of the Constitution. In the case of Enis Berberoglu, the first-degree court has committed a Constitutional crime. Enis Berberoğlu is violating his rights by ignoring this clause. I'm asking you, how long are we going to keep using the courts for political aggression? How long are we going to hold the Supreme Court? How much longer do we have to violate the Constitution and commit a Constitutional crime? How long do we have to humiliate the judges? How long do we have to be unfair and tell everyone to play the mute devil? Enis Berberoglu is a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm inviting the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in spite of its president.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0042par0109	Mr. Kaya...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0043par0111	Mr. President, thank you very much. The land of Asia Minor existed with a sense of justice. Ninety-seven years ago today was the capital of Ankara with a sense of justice, but unfortunately today is a day when justice was destroyed, law, justice, law, and ultimately the Constitution. Civility, free thought, the future of humanity, lives on a sense of justice. Those who approach Enis Berberoglu today with a sense of vengeance, those who violate the Constitution, let them not forget that this Constitution, this law, will need them one day. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey had taken a hasty decision outside the law, reducing Enis Berberoglu's parliamentary position, and now a local court does not recognise the Constitutional Court's decision, adding another misdemeanor to the misdemeanor by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Lawlessness must be condemned.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0044par0115	Thank you. Now, Mr. Group, I'm going to meet the VP's demands. Mr. Dursun Müsavat Dervisoglu, deputy president of the Good Party.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0045par0119	Mr. President, I thank you and salute the General Assembly. We are all cognitive of the 97th anniversary of Ankara's capital, the financial and spiritual fortress of our national struggle. Ankara's political and strategic role in the need for the capital for the new state, which was born after our country's escape from enemy invasion, revealed the importance of Ankara's capital. We're discussing law proposals in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and we're also establishing opinions on decisions that lead to legal debates. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is where laws are made. When the government wants to legalize a corrupt legal arrangement from the eyes of the community, it has a way of making changes in many matters that have nothing to do with each other, and prefers to bring it to the agenda of the High Assembly, calling it the law. As a matter of fact, on October 5th, we also observe that the political power is again on the same path as the Power Market Law presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. The third article of the law proposes that the mining companies continue their activities even though their licenses are expired. What this means is that if the substance is legalized, the licenses of the Canadian Alamos Gold company and its extension of the TUPRAG company will be extended, killing hundreds of thousands of our trees, and destroying our land trees, although its license is expired. Thus, this foreign company, which is about to destroy the Kaz Mountains, will have an extended license, which ended on October 13, 2019. If foreign companies don't obey the law in a country, the law is subject to foreign companies.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0046par0123	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0045par0124	But let it not be forgotten that Turkey is not a liability. We would like to remind you that each member of parliament, who signed such a law proposal, who supported such a law proposal, would share in the plunder and plunder of foreign mining companies in the Turkish dorm, and would be obliged to carry it on his back for a lifetime. We're already warning you: if you're really claiming to be domestic and national, it's only in the interests of foreign companies, but you're going to stop such an attempt on our nature, our forests. Do your duty to you, not to foreign companies, but to protect this beautiful land with its tree, with its stone, with its ecological balance, with its soil. Currently, 118 foreign companies in Turkey have been given 593 mining licenses. This arrangement, where all strategic resources of the country are divided into foreign companies, is never defined as domestic and national; this is described as the local and local order, at least. AS A GOOD PARTY, we declare once again our determination not to abandon the Kaz Mountains, the Toros, the Black Sea, Mount Murat, the northern forests, the South Aegean, and every tree in the country, every piece of land, to leave nature at the mercy of international capital and violent capitalism. We ask those who attempt to bring a law proposal in front of the Veteran Assembly, in the interest of a Canadian mining company: How long will you allow the companies of a country that has decided to embargo Turkey when we started Operation Peace Fountain to eliminate the terror corridor at our Syrian border to live up to the interests of this country and exploit its resources?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0046par0126	Let's wrap this up, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0045par0127	Not much, but just last week, the Canadian government, which was uncomfortable with the Azerbaijan army using Turkish SIHA and UAVs in Mountain Karabaga, suspended the sale of its infrared camera systems to Turkey. In contrast, the Justice and Development Party is offering a law proposal to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in order to offer the privileges, incentives, that will not even be seen in colonial countries. The Republic of Turkey is able to protect its nature, its land, its underground wealth from all the invasive initiatives of foreigners. It is the current political power that cannot establish the principle of reciprocity, which is one of the most fundamental rules of interstate relations, not the Turkish nation in weakness. I had prepared this, but before the Grand National Assembly of Turkey opened, the decision on Mr. Enis Berberoglu came to the House.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0046par0130	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0045par0131	In fact, the incident of the reduction of Mr. Enis Berberoglu's parliamentary position involved a legal anomaly in itself. It is not acceptable for a re-elected MP in the 26th term to be relieved of immunity and to be relieved of his duties at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on grounds of a period earlier, and to be carried out only by the reading of the Deputy Speaker of Parliament, who found his statement in the Interior Charter. When the sense of justice is damaged in a society, there are no institutions left unscathed. The Constitutional Court, which has been tasked with overseeing our legislative activities here, should not even be considered in local courts or lower courts. Mr. Enis Berberoglu is not allowed to be retributed despite the Constitutional Court's decision. We can't possibly address his decision as just a legal decision; it also condemns the government and the ruling group. We believe it is necessary for Enis Berberoglu to take joint steps to return to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It is also part of the duties of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to carry out the duty of doing and carrying out the responsibility of a legal arrangement or the need for certain regulations in the Civil Code.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0046par0134	Let's wrap this up, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0045par0135	As I said, the damage to the sense of justice would damage every institution in a society, which would condemn power. I'm telling you clearly, sir, that I have the confidence that these practices, which have the impression of local courts making decisions on behalf of the government, should first be handled by the government and the ruling group, with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0046par0137	Thank you. Deputy Director of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Muhammad Levent Nightingale. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0047par0141	Thank you. Mr. President, members of parliament, on 13 October 1923, our province of Ankara was adopted as the capital of the state of the Republic of Turkey as a result of the decision made by our National Assembly. It is very important that Ankara is the capital of the province of Turkey, the centre of our independence struggle, the centre of its headquarters, and the most important point that the national will is defaulting, and that Ankara is the most important point during our national struggle in Anatolia. Although it is thought that such a choice was made due to its geopolitical advantages, it is vital that Ankara be given the capital title as a place where national administration and the national struggle have been given the highest level and the foundations of the state of the Republic of Turkey are laid down. On this occasion, I celebrate with gratitude the anniversary of Ankara's capitalization, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, all of our comrades, all of our martyrs and veterans. Mr. President, as you know, the forest fires that started in Belen district of Hatay, on October 9th have also grown by the wind and, unfortunately, have caused great damage, great suffering. In this fire, 542 of our citizens have been evacuated, their homes burned down and damaged. The fires, seen at 15 locations in total, were hardly contained. It is with regret that we have learned that forest fires have occurred in our provinces of Osmaniye and Tripoli. Investigations on the incidents have been carried out, as a result of these investigations have been considered to be suspected of arson and terrorism in the fires. We, as the National Movement Party, were with our citizens during and after the fire in the region, along with our district MPs, headed by our Vice President Mevlüt Karakaya Bey. We have the opportunity to pursue our citizen's troubles in his place, to intervene in his place.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0048par0146	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0047par0147	We specifically demand that those who are involved in the forest fire, and those who are in particular suspected of terrorism, be caught immediately and legally pay the most painful price. Mr. President, on Sunday (October 11th), nine members of Azerbaijan citizens of Azerbaijan have lost their lives, including children and women, and 39 of our Azerbaijan brothers have been injured in a missile attack in the 2nd-largest city of Gence, the terrorist state of Armenia, specifically targeting an apartment. I say we condemn this attack with violence and hatred, and I curse this attack. These attacks carried out by the terrorist state of Armenia, especially during a temporary ceasefire in Moscow, are clearly war crimes, crimes against humanity.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0049par0151	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0047par0152	Throughout this process, we see Armenia carrying out missile attacks, similar attacks on many neighborhoods, especially civilians, in many places that are not limited to the Gence. Unfortunately, from countries that have expressed themselves as a Western and civilized world, Turkey and several other friendly countries, there is not a single word against the state of Armenia concerning these civilian casualties. This has once again shown how the world is involved in a hypocritical and double standard behavior, as it did yesterday in these and similar issues with the Hodja genocide. We, the National Movement Party, feel that any ceasefire and diplomatic effort will not be successful until the invasion of Karabağ, under the occupation of Azerbaijan, under the occupation of Armenia. From here, we want to give our warning about all diplomatic processes that may or may not be conducted within these processes.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0050par0156	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0047par0157	Karabakh, there is no solution at the table without being freed by the Azerbaijan army, without being rescued. I'd like to express from here that the end of the one who expects a solution from the table will be a disappointment, and I'd like to pay all of you my respects.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0050par0158	Thank you. Deputy President of the People's Democratic Party, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0051par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, I'd like to rephrase a few points about the fire at Hatay Belen. Let's start by sharing a figure of forest headquarters, and we know from 2019 to today that there have been 1,377 forest fires and 3,191 hectares of damage. The Kaz Mountains, Murat Mountain, Madra Mountain, Çal Mountain, Ünye, Fatsa, Alaplı, and other wild mining projects have opened up to the mines of only 19,000 hectares in the last thirteen years of power. The minefields in the forests tripled according to previous times. The Kaz Mountains, Alaplı, Ünye, Fatsa, Murat Mountain, Cerattepe; we know that after the forest fires, or thousands of trees have been cut down, the mines have been opened. Yes, forest fires mean not only ecological destruction but also destruction of life. Forest fires take away people's living spaces and livelihoods, subjecting them to forced migration. Companies that were unable to enter the burning zones in the 90s are now carrying out a total attack on mining mines, construction, HES projects in public habitats by the power. Yes, there's a very important law proposal for the Energy Commission, and it's called the Electric Market Law Proposal, but the bottom line is, it's a matter of getting a favor on the mines. They put the stuff in the bag to avoid a reaction, and if it becomes legal, we'd like to share it with the public right now. The mines will be minimised, the mines will expand their area without permission, they won't even be fined, the mining sector's unregistered and destructive activities will be punished, and we'd like to express our resistance to the proposal of this law, and I'd like to invite everyone to raise their voice against it. Of course, today not only is Antioch, but the whole country is a place of fire. Today there was another cave-in at the mine in Çorum, and one worker lost his life. People's stoves are on fire, their pockets are on fire, their table is on fire, the future of children waiting for education, the suffering of citizens who can't reach health. We have to put this fire out together, or it'll take us all away. Yes, we hereby call on Parliament to take initiative at the point of nature's sensitivity.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0052par0167	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0051par0168	Although there are elements in many laws that protect nature, we all want to call a joint commission on the law of securing nature as the People's Democratic Party, and finally, on behalf of the ruling group, Mr. Yayman said: "The Hatay will not be opened, the mining site will not be built." We carefully listened to the words, indeed, after all these mines, HES and other issues, we find that important, and we will follow it to the end. It's really a fire today... and we all have to take responsibility for tomorrow's lack of mining or skyscrapers. Mr. President, there are a few more brief points. Four mothers of peace have been detained for eight days and tortured at Urbana Police yesterday, and their detention period has been extended. I just want to draw attention to all other illegalities on the basis of these mothers.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0052par0171	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0051par0172	Release the peace mothers. We just got word. In Istanbul, where millions of Kurdish citizens live, a Kurdish theatre play was banned from the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality. Gaziosmanpaşa subsidiary has banned a private theatre called "Teatra Jiyana Nulu." What's the motive? The motive is to disrupt the general public order. I mean, the way millions of people, citizens, are being made into theaters with the language of the Kurdish language, it's going to disrupt the public order. No, banning public order from the language of millions of citizens. This is beyond enemy law. In English, French, Arabic, other languages, theatre may be displayed, but we strongly reject the non-sustainable approach in Kurdish, and we find it unacceptable, and the ban must be lifted immediately. There's an I.A.G.C. report, which is very bad. Turkey faces a major labour crisis in its history.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0053par0176	Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0051par0177	In September, at least 177 workers lost their lives while at least 1,493 workers were working in the first nine months of 2020, the Labor Health and Occupational Safety Assembly reported. Turkey's average of 2,000 workers a year die from work conditions. We're facing a situation worse than war, and we need to move quickly on this. Yes, one of the most important matters of the day, Mr. Enis Berberoglu, is that the Constitutional Court has made a decision regarding Mr. Enis Berberoglu, not to be recognized by the local court, not to say yes, not to know him. The local court doesn't have that authority. From the Constitution, from any local court based on the laws, I am not fulfilling the Constitutional Court's decision. Where does he get his power? Where he gets that power, if that power doesn't stop it, no citizen in this country will have freedom and legal security. That's exactly the job of the Constitutional Court, to oversee the compliance of the law enforcement body -- the first duty of us -- and to determine whether the savings of individual applications are contrary to the Constitution.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0053par0180	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0051par0181	Enis Berberoglu was elected MP during the 26th term and the trial was continued even though he had gained immunity again in the 27th term. The Constitutional Court has decided that this trial must stop immediately, and we believe that, with this halting, he should regain his parliamentary position by the principles of general law, although there is no ruling in the Civil Code. I simply want to say that the judiciary is interfering with the legislature and, therefore, the will of the people. The representation of the will of the people in this parliament has been ruled out by the judiciary for three years. The Constitutional amendment for the removal of immunity in 2016 shows that the people's will is not recognised in Turkey in Laila Güven, the children of Musa Faris, Enis Berberoğlu and the last three MPs. Our call is clear.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0053par0183	Yeah, let's tie it up for the last time.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0051par0184	I'm just finishing up, Mr. President. The Constitutional Court also binds us, it binds the court, and it binds its citizens; there is no exception, no exception, in the face of this decision. If the local court thinks he has the right not to recognize it, which we don't think he does, then he should give up immediately, and the objection must be accepted, and Mr. Berberoglu's position must be extradited. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0054par0187	Thank you. Vice President of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Free Special... Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0055par0191	Thank you, Mr. President. We'd like to talk about Ankara's becoming the capital, how the forest fire in Hatay burned our hearts once again, and we'd like to repeat that we were with Azerbaijan with all our heart, but today in this Parliament, we're in Istanbul 14. With a verdict from the High Criminal Court... let's name a judge, let him go down in history, report to the transcripts: Akin Gürlek. Let Akın Gürlek know that he is the executioner of justice, that he is the executioner of justice today, and that he is the guillotine for someone, and that he and the executioners of justice, Mesut Özdemir and Henol Kartal (Senol Kartal) have signed one of the blackest decisions in the history of the Republic of Turkey, and that we will not forget this in the minutes of the Grand Assembly. There's another reality we won't forget: the Constitution is a community contract, can it be criticised? It can be criticised. It's in motion, it's fine, but you may not see it as legitimate. For example, they did the constitutional change in the terms of the State of Emergency, for example, in the process, they used all the resources of the state inequality, they misled the people, you don't think it's legitimate, but it's in effect, you have to obey. If you find it possible to disobey the highest norm, you make it possible to break the norm under it, and that makes the state controversial. It's the reality that our most nationalist, our most sovereign, our most liberal, our most democratic, and all of us have to stand up for. There are a lot of definitions on the government. For example, there was an understanding that each administration was a state, and then it became a state of law, and then it became a state of law. He says, "This is progress." And the most important feature of law states is that from the top rule of law to the lowest rule of law, the constitution, equality and right to be sought against the law. That's what our Constitution has provided. Until we do better, we are bound by this Constitution until our nation accepts it, denying ourselves otherwise would be denial.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0056par0195	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0055par0196	Today, someone sees themselves above this Constitution, and we're being pushed back by reducing the state of law first to the state of law, now to the individual state, and we're being thrown out of the realm of state theory. I've just asked -- no mistake -- it's the 21st century, isn't it? Friends laughed all at the same time as today's decision. They said, Mr. President. Because I will quote Augustine of the 4th century, the 4th century; says Augustine: "What is the state but a great gang, if you take justice out of it? Today, by the hand of the executioner Akin Gürlek, you have brought justice out of the state by the hand of the executioner of justice, Akın Gurlek, and you have ganged up the state.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0056par0198	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0055par0199	I won't remind you of the clauses one by one, but the Constitutional Court says that the decisions are binding for everyone. The Article 153 and the article says: "The final paragraph is read together." The decisions of the Constitutional Court are published in the official newspaper immediately, and the legislation, executive and judicial bodies, and the authorities, and the real and legal authorities are binding on them today. "A lower court does not bind me," he said. Workers' Clerk Serhat Gul, who wrote this report, had the shame of taking one of the blackest decisions in the history of the Republic of Turkey, today and today, you took justice out of the state, became a gang. They're telling you today that the government doesn't matter because you've passed the Constitutional Court law -- there's continuity in the state -- the 50th clause clearly states that if it's caused by a violation court order, it will be sent to the court for retributing the violations and consequences. The court, charged with retrial, shall decide on the case, if possible, to eliminate the violations and consequences that the Constitutional Court has issued in its violations and verdict.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0056par0201	Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0055par0202	The guy said it was a violation. The Supreme Court's officials, their valued judges, the people there, the men, the women, said: "There is a breach, remove it. He sent it. The Constitution that we have written, the Constitution that the nation has accepted, is not in accordance with the law that we have passed. It was bound to happen this way. How was it obvious? The immunitys will be restored if the MP is re-elected. While the Constitutional amendment was being discussed, they asked him, which is under the record: "If those who have been denied immunity are re-elected as trustees," says Shuntop clearly: "It will be immunity again. Is it certain?" Stop it. He became Speaker, and this court continued to judge Enis Berberoglu.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0056par0205	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0055par0206	I will, Mr. President. That's all there is to it, we have nothing else to do. The Speaker of Parliament said, "I insist on that decision, the trial must stop." He said, "It didn't stop." He made a decision, sent it to the House, didn't let me read it for a while. One day, whatever happened, I had to read it. What's the matter, guys, we're gonna fool each other? Why did he make me read it? And Enis Berberoglu of the Constitutional Court had him read it a month before his application was discussed, and he had it read days away, and he made him read it without waiting, and he cut down his parliamentary position. The Constitutional Court ruled a breach, and it's 14. He threw it in court, and I waited for his decision. He says I don't obey the Constitution, I don't obey the law. If you call this the tent state, shut up. This is where the lower legislative court will challenge Parliament with judicial activism. If you are saying that a court will trample on this Constitution at the cost of following its instructions. We didn't shut up in time, and you know what?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0056par0209	Mr. Special, let's wrap this up. Let's take your last words.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0055par0211	In the Constitution it was written as a door, Recep Tayyip Erdogan couldn't even become a leader, but he was the president of his party, he won the election. In the 22nd term, we sat down and changed the Constitution so that your president could be elected a member of parliament; we added to the Constitution, we added to it. Now, even though you say the Constitution doesn't do that, it binds everyone. When you submit to the decision of this ordered justice executioner, all things aside, in the most rude terms, it's against the racona once, it's embarrassing. A Parliament, a political party who has made a political change in your president's path; a lawmaker who has been demoted, justified, denied the right to a lower court, despite the Constitution. Look, the day you canceled the Istanbul election, we warned you that it would turn from the conscience of the nation. We said, "You've been hit by democracy by 800,000 different ways." Aha, if you decide on persecution, turn our state of justice into a gang... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My last word...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0057par0215	We're taking the last word now, Mr. Special. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0055par0217	If you call this gang a government, if you run it like a criminal organization, people will seize it, brother, this time in the election you'll be so shocked that you'll be so proud that we were winning the election, how did we get thrown in here? You're drifting away from democracy and law. You stood up to national will in the Istanbul election, the result. This is the greatest of national wills. Ladies and gentlemen, whoever opposes this will pay a heavy price. We fight, we pay the price, but people don't forgive you, history doesn't forgive you. Are you going to be a partner in this disgrace, or are you going to eliminate this disgrace? We're looking into your eyes. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0057par0219	Deputy Director of the AK PARTY Group, Mr. Bulent Turan... Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0058par0222	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. We have lost our mayor, Mehmet Abdi Bulut, who has been treated for some time as a result of his discomfort. May he rest in peace and rest in peace. I'd like to express our sadness. Mr. President, you know that today is the 97th year of Ankara's capital. Ankara's national struggle continues its historic mission with its presence and hosting our Veteran Assembly. I revere all of his comrades, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. I celebrate the 97th year of Ankara's capitalization. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, as of yesterday, the annual Relations Week has begun. For many years, it has continued to exist as a socioeconomic and cultural institution on our land. It's one of our common responsibilities to live up to our ancient history's heritage culture, to pass it on to future generations. I congratulate our modern - day manufacturers, our tradesman, our merchant, and industrialist's Abyssinic Culture Week; I wish you a rich, abundant, lawful gain. Mr. President, I'd like to say a few words, if you'll excuse me, regarding a certain court order that the esteemed Deputy Director of the Group has just expressed. In fact, the decision is very new, and I think that many more of our deputies have taken the decision and found no way to read it. That's why I don't think it's right to shout from such high screens, to use threatening statements. I don't think it's very elegant, Mr. President, that our judges in the court, the names of those involved, are being made a target by reading. These missions come and go, as do the surrogacy and the judgeship. Everyone makes decisions from their own point of view, they're right, they're wrong, they're disputable, but it's the judge who makes this decision. I don't think it's fitting for our political culture, Mr. President. Otherwise, if everyone starts reading the name of the judge he doesn't like here, it's not right. Mr. President, dear friends, look, if we don't evaluate the process of events together in total, weigh the basic parameters with a reasonable and cold mind, sometimes we can get to the wrong places. It's a long process. It's about the case. You have to remember that first. You know, the fall of the deputy in question is not the result of our decision, by a vote by the MPs, by the House expressing a verdict. There was a decision that was finalized, and it was read, so basically, the MPs didn't rule, they didn't vote, they didn't take any action on it.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0059par0230	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0058par0231	But when we do remember that, I can tell you that the deputy was sentenced to five years and ten months. Why did he get the ticket? You remember, one of the phases of the coup was the revelation of the MIT trucks, the disclosure of the secrets of the state that needed to be kept secret, the courts considered it not a press action, but an act of espionage. It was a trial, a long trial. As a result of this trial, as I said, he was sentenced to close to six years. Then, again, the Constitutional Court, which lived in the wake of the change that the EC PARTI made to the nation by paying great prices, making great debates, was able to apply for this new institution for the evaluation of personal applications. He took this step that was entitled to the relevant deputy, and the court made a decision.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0059par0233	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0058par0234	We all know the Constitutional Court can't, can't, can't. The Constitutional Court can't build an acquittal or a verdict, and if it does, it's wrong. As a matter of fact, the Constitutional Court has decided that there is no conviction, no acquittal, no retrial, no rights violation. He said, it was a very important decision. They then appealed to the local court, the first-degree court, and today the court stressed that the Constitutional Court had made this decision by pushing the limits of the Constitutional Court and continued immunity. I'm not reading the verdict, I'm reading the verdict, I haven't said my opinion yet.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0060par0236	That's not what the verdict says.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0059par0237	Let's not interfere, fellas.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0058par0238	Therefore, the first-degree court said, "I am not repeating the trial because the Constitutional Court has made the inspection of the placement. " So the Constitutional Court is a court of this country, of this House, of this nation.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0059par0240	Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0058par0241	The local court is a trial of this nation, of this state. I don't believe the descriptions that target the names of the individuals targeting the courts are accurate. However, the Supreme Court -- everyone will remember -- had a similar ruling in earlier years, a first-degree court that did not comply with this decision, and after the parties object to it, everyone must abide by the Constitutional Court's decision. I mean, this decision is so new, it's the last thing we need to look at, we know what the Constitutional Court is, but we don't think that the processes of the procedure debate between these courts are directly our concern. This court has the right to appeal. They'll object. After that decision, the verdict will be reassessed. The decision read in the House is a final sentence, and we still have that final sentence. Tomorrow another decisive sentence will be read, and this time it will be our duty to obey the judgment together.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0059par0243	Let's complete it, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0058par0244	So I consider it appropriate for all of us to follow the process with a cold mind until final judgment is made. Not to be polemic, but please don't take this the wrong way, I'd like to make a point. See, the main debate on this issue is the trial after the removal of immunity. We lifted the immunity with the support of the CHP, even with its advance last semester. There's been a reelection, we've come to the House. A group of courts said that being a deputy again would restore immunity. A group of judges said, "No, those immunitys weren't person-based, they were file-based. So, even if you're acting again, there's no immunity as long as those files go on. I'm going right, but the main point of discussion is the removal of immunity, so I like the sea, but I don't like the wave. It's the way, it's not the right approach. If you take this step, remove the immunity, the courts will assess it, the Supreme Court will assess it, the Constitutional Court can evaluate it all. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The last sentence...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0061par0248	Mr. Turan, let's take your final statement.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0058par0249	Right now, there's a process that's still going on, that's troubled, that says we should all follow its certainty together, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0062par0251	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0061par0252	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0062par0254	Mr. President, I have been promised that I will say two things, and I will answer the accusation in a moment, but one is that we are all capable of understanding that we are reading, and that is why the constitutions are written very carefully, and this decision is binding for everyone, executive, legislative, judicial, and decisive. He's not talking about the decision of the first-level courts, he's got appeals, he's got higher authority. That's exactly what he said was going to be discussed, and I said it, I said it, I said it, I said it, but who's going to decide it? Last, top court. He wrote that the Supreme Court's decision was uncontroversial. You can't go anywhere else when you say the Supreme Election Board's decisions are final. Now another comment on that would be a comment that would really question intimacy and make fun of all of our minds. The second part is, I'm not making a point about who I call the executioner of justice.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0061par0257	Mr. Special, please.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0062par0258	I'm making it very clear that I'm putting that justice executioner on the record. Look what he did to the executioner: İstanbul Governor of State Canan Kaftancıoğlu has the case; he has the decision to open a new investigation immediately after the release of Artist Atilla Taş and journalist Murat Aksoy, and again arrest them using algebra and violence to prevent their freedom; he has the odd job; he has the decision to punish the former Co-Chair Selahattin Demirtaş from another case as soon as he is released from the trial; he has the decision to make an arrest from another case, as soon as he is not in the hierarch structure of the daily. All of these were in 35, one in 36, one in 14, and one in 15. You're court-martialing this gentleman, this private executioner, this guillotine, so he can make these decisions, all of them, all of them...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0063par0260	Do you speak in accordance with the Constitution?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0061par0261	Mr. Special, let's complete, please, I'll take your final words.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0062par0262	You can't find four judges like this, you're court-martialing this executioner of justice as a traveling guillotine. This gentleman has been cut off from justice; this gentleman has been cut off from the law; this gentleman is the man in the personal state of your patriarch, I will not leave him, I will not do that. The guillotine is on wheels for the instructions of the man who says, "I will not leave him." See this, talk about what you want to talk about. I won't forget it, I won't forget it; it's Akin Gürlek, the guillotine of justice on wheels, and you'll be back in this House's records later. It's the law's job to pay for what's been done. Yours truly, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0061par0265	Mr. Beştaş, I believe you have a request.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0064par0267	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, after listening to Mr. Turan. I understood in this Parliament that in 2016 the immunitys were not lifted against us -- contrary to the Constitution -- the co-chairs of our party, the co-chairs of a party, 11 MPs of a party, were not arrested, the votes were not held here, only that 11 MPs had been sentenced to freedom of thought and expression, and had not been demoted by instruction and sanctioned by the freedom of expression of 11 lawmakers, and not two months ago, our Diyarbakır MP Leyla Güven and Musa Faris. I don't know if I got it wrong, because he says: "We didn't decide that. " Right, a decision has come and been read, but even reading is a political choice, it's a political will. The issue we're discussing now is Istanbul 14. Can the High Criminal Court or not make this decision according to the Constitution?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0061par0270	Mr. Beştaş, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0064par0271	I'll finish it. Now, what's a coup? What do you mean by changing constitutional order? To not recognize this is to act contrary to it, to interpret the broadest. What does the Constitution tell us? He says the Supreme Court's decisions are binding for everyone. I'm Istanbul 14. I believe the members of the High Criminal Court deliberately committed crimes against the Constitution against the Constitution to change constitutional order. Because there's no way he wouldn't know. I don't know the Constitutional Court's decision. It can't, and therefore it's been especially two terms since the past, especially since June 7th, when it's been ordered by Parliament to assume the duty of notary, by producing false crimes -- as I say with this decision -- the constitutional order, the forces have changed the segregation; legislation, the executive and the judiciary have been united, and there is only one force now, and that shows that the court is clearly committing crimes. For this reason, the proxy must be extradited.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0061par0274	Thank you, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0065par0275	Mr. President, let's move on to the agenda.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0061par0276	Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to give our five deputies a minute of their space according to 60. Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0066par0279	Mr. President, thank you. This morning, Parliament Speaker Mustafa Sentop said we can't decide on Enis Berberoglu's parliamentary position until the decision is lifted. First the Speaker broke the basic rules of the Constitution, then the court violated the Constitution. The first-degree court did not recognise the decision that our country's highest courtman had unanimously made. A new addition has been added to the injustices suffered by Mr. Enis Berberoglu. Now we're at the end of both the word and the law. This scandalous decision has once again demonstrated the presence of an independent and biased judiciary. They ignored Article 153 of the Constitution. One man is trying to govern the regime and the power of the palace through the unlawfulness that he created this country. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0067par0282	Mr. Sumer...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0068par0284	Thank you, Mr. President. It is unacceptable for a lower court not to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision on our MP Enis Berberoglu. The Constitutional Court's decisions bind the legislative, executive and judicial bodies. It is our duty to establish the concept of justice. For the dignity of the House, for the understanding of the state of law, it is imperative to abide by the decision of the supreme court. There shouldn't be a dilemma in law, law shouldn't be political. When the Constitutional Court makes a decision, a lower court cannot say, "I do not obey this decision." In light of these facts, the decision on our MP Enis Berberoglu must be carried out immediately and given back the parliamentary position which was dropped despite all our warnings.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0069par0287	Mr. Gökcal...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0070par0289	Mr. President, today we are witnessing once again that the law is underfoot. The Constitutional Court's rights violation of Enis Berberoglu has been ignored by the local court. The Constitutional Court's decision on the state's cornerstone has been ignored. The state's source, elected by the will of the nation, is the law against the Constitutional Court to disregard the verdict. There is no more law, no more execution, no more judgment. Judgement has become political. Today, a picture of an authoritarian regime has been revealed to us. We will not allow our republic to be removed from the form of a constitutional state of law. We will not be silent about the abolition of the rights of a member of parliament elected by the votes of the nation. We condemn the verdict.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0069par0290	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0071par0292	Thank you, Mr. President. When the immunity file on Enis Berberoglu came to parliament, the investigation and prosecution of the MP elected again in Article 83 of the Constitution in the fourth article of Article 83 of Parliament depends on the removal of parliamentary immunity from parliament over and over again. Article 153 of the Constitutional Court's decisions are immediately published in the official newspaper and shall bind legislation, executive and judicial bodies, administrative authorities, facts and treaties, according to the Constitutional Court. In this provision of Article 153, it is 14 in İstanbul. I'm not saying the court -- there wouldn't be a problem if there was an exception to the three-member delegation, but since there was no exception in this issue, the 153/th article clearly states that all decisions will be ruled by governance, legislative bodies, the judiciary -- despite the fact that the lower court is in clear violation of the law, the law, the open rule of authority between the laws...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0069par0295	Mr. Hakver...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0072par0297	Thank you, Mr. President. The Constitution is the highest text of social reconciliation. In accordance with this text, the Constitutional Court shall bind the decisions of all persons and institutions; it shall bind the House, the administration, the whole level of the judiciary, the judges, the president, everyone. We're in Istanbul 14. I do not recognize the ruling of the Criminal Court. We know exactly where he got the courage to say it. We are well aware of the usefulness of this delegation by being served in three separate criminal courts within the same court. This committee, unfortunately, is the signatories of the decisions that touch the nerve endings of society. The use of judges and prosecutors has never ended well in this country. Today Enis Berberoglu needs justice, and it must not be forgotten that those who instruct the law today will need justice tomorrow.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit03spe0069par0299	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit04spe0069par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 4th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Black Sea Economic Co-operation Parliamental Assembly (KEIPA) is presented in Turkish Group to the information of the General Assembly of Sivas MP Ahmet Özyürek, a member of the National Movement Group, who has been reported by the Parliament of the National Movement Group of Turkey on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman It has been presented to your knowledge. THE Good PARTI Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday 13/10/2020 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. The parliamentary research proposal for the solution of pensioners' problems, which Tripoli MP Huseyin Örs and 20 MPs submitted to Parliamentary Presidency on 30/7/2020, has been proposed to meet on Tuesday (13/10/2020). On behalf of the Good PARTY Group, Mr. Huseyin Örs. Here you go, Mr. Anres.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit04spe0073par0027	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group to discuss the research proposal that we, as a group of good people, have submitted to review and resolving the problems of pensioners. I salute you all with the utmost respect. Dear lawmakers, since March, pensioners have been among the most affected by the pandemic in our country. We have millions of pensioners with minimum wage. These citizens are trying to live their lives under very difficult circumstances. They're no longer able to deal with the raises that come every day. Many of them are trapped in their homes because of their economic conditions. We have pensioners who go to neighborhood markets late in hopes of prices dropping, and even then they can't shop with weight. We've got pensioners who can't even afford a suit near food, heating and electricity costs. These people who spend a long time of their lives serving our country and the community have the will to live up to human dignity when they are old and in need of care. Dear lawmakers, as the GOOD PARTY, we try to be among the public, among the citizens, to listen to their problems in their place and in their own way. Our chairman, Mr. Coral Akşener, is visiting Turkey in the district, Turkey in the village; he goes to the nation, listens to the nation because the voice of the silent masses exists. We are here to address the nation's expectations, demands in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. On one of these trips, a retired citizen told our president, "How am I going to take care of my house?" He said, "I'm getting paid $2,000 a month, I'm renting 800 euros a month, and 400 euros goes to bills." In fact, Mr. President posted this dialogue on video from his Twitter account. Here, dear lawmakers, the bitter truth is not hidden in these words, but in public. The pensions of our pensioners are not even sufficient to cover the mandatory expenses of their daily lives due to increased inflation and the economic crisis. Dear lawmakers, our retired citizens have many problems. During each election period, 3600 additional indicators and initiatives in election promises were unfortunately left on dusty shelves, where promises were not kept. Retired pensioners, who will increase their salaries and bonuses with the adoption of the initiative law and the increase in the percentage of the additional payment replaced by tax refunds, await a law that will be passed by parliament. The minimum additional payment for our pensioners must be raised according to the conditions of the day, with additional payment rates set at least 89%. In the pre- 2000 period, there was a system that protected pensions, with the rule that the lower limit monthly binding rate could not be less than 70 per cent, and the system that protected the months, after the lower border monthly bonding rate was reduced to 35 per cent for 2000. A realistic lower limit must be determined immediately by the monthly binding rate. The former SEC pensions were also adopted by Law 6283 and were added to pensions as of January 1, 2013. There are differences in pensioners' monthlys before 2000 and non-intuitive pensioners' monthlys after 2000, although the number of bonuses and premium paydays is the same, and these differences must be quickly resolved. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, here's the other thing:
tbmm-2020-10-13sit04spe0074par0036	Let's do it, Mr. Anres.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit04spe0073par0037	The main spending groups and distribution percentages in calculating the TÜFE increase are closely concerned with the increase of employees and pensioners. The limited reflection of high-profile increases in natural gas, electricity, transport, tea, sugar and other food products is limited to TUFE calculations and increases, causing the pensions of employees and pensioners to shrink. I'd like to make another point. The need for health care has been cut under the name ▪ the share of the pensions that are more important than the monthly pensions of our growing pensioners. It is also difficult for our pensioners to receive health care from those who are pensioners, since the additional fee by up to 200 per cent of the colleges and private hospitals exceeds the payability of our pensioners. General health benefits, pensions, and health benefits, which have been cut at a high rate during the years they worked, have been paid to ensure their pension and health care. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have another minute?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit04spe0075par0041	For the last time, please.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit04spe0073par0042	Yes, one last time. Therefore, pensioners should be exempted from their contributions and should not receive contributions under any name, such as medical fees, drug differences, prescription costs and additional fees. The application of a thousand Turkish lira pensions on religious holidays must also be reorganised as a salary bonus for a pension on religious holidays. Finally, we will solve all parties, including the AK PARTY. I would like to express the victims of our citizens who are living in retirement that he promised. Our motion as a good party on this matter was rejected by the ruling group. Those who live in retirement are troubled by the acquisition of their earned rights. What we want from power is for our citizens to stop seeing their rights as a burden to the state. The rights demand of a citizen of this country is not a burden to the state. Come, let's remove the wedge in front of pensioners during this legislature. We brought it, you refused, you bring it, we'll support it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit04spe0076par0048	Batman MP Necdet İpekım on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on behalf of the good party proposal. Here you are, Mr. Silkface.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit04spe0077par0051	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Retirement and labor... we salute all pensioners who have brought us to this day and prepared us from today to tomorrow, who have made a poor effort for Turkey in such conditions as the Democratic Party of Peoples. Their needs are our needs, their struggle is our struggle. It is a coincidence that, along with the motion issued, Ankara Governorate has filed a motion today to close the DİSK-based Retirement Union and the trial is being held today in Ankara, I think it has been postponed. On the one hand, people have problems, people want to organize, they want to bring up their problems, and as usual, don't talk, let's close. No matter what you do, the Z generation says there's no Oy moy. The pensioners are our prime crown, and they say there's no Oy moy. Why? Because there's about 13 million pensioners, who we still don't know about, who are always hiding their numbers, who are living in retirement, and there's about 5 million of them, and they're surprised at what they're going to do with about 18 million, 19 million people. During each election period, promises of age in retirement, of principle, 3600 additional indicators are made, forgotten after coming here. So, what are the pensioners doing? They're a mess. Some pursue a second job, some try to make an effort to live humanly. Why is it human? All over the world, people are also being organized and paid to see if they're actually a social state. Turkey is third to third in retirement in a study conducted among all European countries. So, what's the problem? The same education, the same premium, you work at the same time, and even though you pay all these premiums, they get paid three different ways, pensioners in Turkey; before 2000, between 2000 and 2008 and after 2008. They were subject to very different fees, and 60 percent of them were paid under a thousand liras. In the pandemememem for those who receive less than a thousand liras, we are making £1,500 with a new arrangement. They said, "This 500 lira is given from the treasure." With all the increases now to be made -- so that TÜFE can play on as much as TÜFE wants -- 60 percent of them are already miserable and almost unable to make a living. We know how minimum wage is determined in this country. On another subject: The Treasury officially doesn't know how to repay its debt to the SGK, and the pensioners now, perhaps even in these difficult conditions, are in trouble. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit04spe0078par0059	Let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit04spe0077par0060	So, what do these pensioners want? They want an attitude. They say that their minimum salary -- this is what we all criticize -- should be above minimum wage, which they say is not -- is that as HDP, we think as Peoples' Democratic Party, the minimum wage in Turkey today is comedy. The numbers of the hunger limit are up to 8,000 liras. Another one's health-related. Stay in the house. You say, "Stay in the house." But when he goes to do a pandemic test, he wants 500 lira in private hospitals. Come on, let's get rid of the retirement contribution. You called it health care reform, privatized, people are afraid to go to private hospitals. You gave me a thousand lira for the holiday. Six holidays passed, the first holiday you gave them was three quarters of gold, and now they can't buy a quarter of gold and buy sugar on it. Come on, let's raise. And the Minister says, "Are we going to set it in dollars? Let's set it in gold, let's set it in dollars." That's how this citizen pays when he's shopping. These are our honors, we're with them.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit04spe0079par0064	Mr. Silkface, may we greet you, please?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit04spe0077par0065	I'm completing it, sir.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit04spe0079par0066	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit04spe0077par0067	We need to be with them, we need to take care of their problems. He's got transportation issues. And then we actually called the pandemide above the age of 65, and we really changed them, and if we don't take care of them, we're going to ruin our own future tomorrow, and we're going to have trouble with our own future. Protect it, but protect it with honor. Let's keep it safe. Let's call it home. But let's also contribute to natural gas, electricity, water, communication and communication. When we did this, honorful life is for all of us, and when we, the People's Democratic Party, first started pandeming, we said in budget talks: let's do this arrangement on pensioners, young people, women, unemployed people. Let's solve this. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit04spe0080par0071	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Ensar Aytekin is our MP. Here you go, Mr. Aytekin.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit04spe0081par0074	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group to recommend a good party. I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, in our country, when the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court, rights, law, and the crumbs of justice are wanted to be eliminated, these days we will defend justice, justice, law, victim's rights to our last breath, and let's make a note of history. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, pensioners are actually the basic building blocks of this society. Public opinion, it doesn't matter. People who give years of their time under the principle of continuity of economic events leave their place to the new labor force, while they themselves have to work again because in AKP power, retirement and survival is a miracle. I'd like to show you two pictures. See, a photo shared by the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services on the official website of the World Aged Day (October 1st). Ministry officials will imagine such a retirement in Turkey that they shared a photo from Norway on their website. That's the dream; so, what are the facts? And the truth, unfortunately, is these dear friends. The first picture you see when you write the situation of pensioners in Turkey on an online search engine is a picture in front of the bank where hundreds of pensioners wait in line for hours on payday. We wish there would be pictures like this in Turkey. Dear friends, in Turkey, our pensions are not only worn out by life, but also by the AKP. An interesting thing happened yesterday: Family, Labour and Social Services Minister Zehra Selçuk explained that pensioners have been paid $674.5 billion a month in the past two years as if they had been blessed and blessed by the world. In this system that has been founded on the labors of these people for years, this mentality is responsible for the greatest corruption this land has ever seen, which sees as a blessing to people who contribute to their government by paying insurance premiums. Earlier, when the microphone was on in the collective agreements, it was reflected in the public how the worker's right to the worker's rights.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit04spe0082par0081	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit04spe0081par0082	Dear friends, the result is that there are people who are paid less than 1,000 TL per month. We said, "No." You said, "No." Let's solve the problems of those who live in retirement. We said, "No." You said, "No." The pensioners don't get along. We said, "We're putting their wages to bed." You said. So we said, let's make these two bonuses $1,500, and you're probably going to say, "No." Now we say one more thing: The pensioners will bury you in the chest, and the people will say, "That's enough! Call this one "No." Let's all meet at the polls. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit04spe0082par0085	Adana MP Ahmet Zenbilci on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group on behalf of the good party proposal. Here you go, Mr. Zenbilci.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit04spe0083par0088	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute you all. On behalf of the AK PARTY on the good party proposal, I would like to present our views. First of all, I'd like to point out that the pensioners are our elders, our values, and our precious ones, who we've always made the crown of. During his work life, we have over 10 million pensioners who have worked, fought, fought, and deserved to retire in exchange for their own benefits, and have expressed their problems today, as well as our good PARTI and other opposition party friends. My dear congressman friend just showed me a picture, which caught my attention, saying that a large group of people line up in front of the Bank of Agriculture to collect a pension. This is probably a picture before the AK PARTY. There is no such process now in the EC PARTY; all of our pensioners have regular salaries, and even our pensioners, who are unable to make it to the bank, are being handed over to their homes. Prior to the AK PARTY, the pension boxes were scattered, except for the SGK, like the SSC, the Retired Ark, BUG-KUR. But these have been joined under a revolutionary law, combined with the SGK Law, and while all of our pensioners are fighting for treatment in different hospitals, they are now trying to continue their lives in the same way that the SGK has served all the hospitals in the same way and so on. Again, the thousand-dollar bonuses that we've given are the subject of criticism, and those who have never done any work on it today are critical of our thousand liras and other investments. Of course our retired friends deserve much better, of course they'll be given much better, of course they'll have better opportunities, but it's something to do with the country's economy, with its budget. As the country's prosperity increases, so will our retired brothers and sisters, who will improve their resources and conditions, and will continue. Look, they're privileged in the housing built by TOKI regarding our pensions. Along with bonuses, other opportunities continue to be given to them in the same way. In exchange for our own budget, our friends will have all the needs they need. Once again, I salute our pensioners with love, and wish God a good life.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit04spe0084par0097	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit04spe0085par0098	There's a request for a roll call before we submit the good party proposal to your votes, and I'll do it. Mr. Gökçel, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Budak, Mr. Tutdere, Mr. Sümer, Mr. Erdan Kılıç, Mr. Green, Mr. Adıglül, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Qadıgil, Mr. Yıldız, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Yüksel, Mr. Aygun, Mr. Gündoğdu, Mr. Gun, Mr. Karasu, Mr. Karahan, Mr. Ilhan, Mr. Ilhan Celebrity, Mr. Candy. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0085par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of Turkey's 4th Union of the Grand National Assembly. Prior to a vote on a good party proposal, the roll call on the request did not provide sufficient number of meetings. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, starting roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 13/10/2020 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On 13 October 2020, it was proposed by Siirt MP Deputy Chair Meral Danış Beştaş and İstanbul MP Deputy Chair Saruhan Oluç (9158 groups) to hold talks on Tuesday (13/10/2020-2020) in front of other motions for parliamentary investigations to the Turkish Parliament for the full extent of the Ankara Gar massacre. Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Group Group (HDP) Party Party Group (HDP) Party Group (HDP) Party Party Party (HDP) Party Party (HDP) Party Party (HDP) Party Party Party (HDP) Party Party (HDP) Party Party Party (HDP) Party Party Party (HDP) Party Party (HDP) Party Party Party (HDP) Party Party (HDP) Party Party Party Party Party (HDP) Party Party Party Party (HDP) Party Party Party Party (HDP) Party Party Party (HDP) Party of Peoples' Party (HDP) People's Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0086par0025	Mr. President, we lost 103 people in the capital of Turkey, here in Ankara, on October 10, 2015. Now, I'd like to invite you all to a moment of silence. What would you do if I said that? Can we have a moment of silence for 103 people? If we can't be found, friends, if we can't stand together for 103 people in this country, the 103 people we've lost in this capital, then it's really impossible to build a common future in this country. On 5 June 2015, the attack on our Diyarbakır rally was carried out, 37 young people were killed in Suruç, and then we lost 103 people in front of Ankara Station, as far as the eye could see. They all have the same perpetrators, ISIS. Although there were complaints about them ten days before the massacre, there was no action on the organisers. A militant wanted by the red bulletin was returned to Turkey while trying to move to Georgia, not once, but twice returned to Turkey, and they said: "We returned it, why are you sending it again?" Turkey did not capture this person. As a result, live bombs came waving from Antwerp to Ankara's belly. First of all, this case still has 16 escaped defendants. These people are only on trial for membership in an armed terrorist organization, and his statute of limitations is 15 years, five years past, ten years to go. However, we insisted that the nature of this crime is a crime against humanity and that there should be no statute of limitations. Why are we saying this? We wish our nation the best for our country, as it was after the decision to expire in the trial of the Sivas Madimak Hotel massacre. Gaziantep is a powerful Al Qaeda organization from the end of the 90s, and it is known that the organisation evolved to ISIS. The organization's schematics are also on the Homeland Ministry website, whose albums are in the Police Department, although their cell homes have survived, the October 10th massacre was planned in these houses. Surveillance footage of people coming and going in and out of the houses is as clear as you'd recognize them on the street, but the police can't identify them. The Home Secretary says we can find 10 men wanted in a square of 10,000 people with facial scans. Well, why don't you find it here? Yeah, it doesn't end here. The most important thing in this case is that there are nine folders that appear exactly four years after the massacre and are never presented in court, friends, how can 9 folders disappear in a court of law, how can they hide? The attorneys of the case believe that these 9 folders were hidden in prosecutors' lockers for four years, during trial period, because both prosecutors and police have very serious allegations of negligence and abuse. According to a document sent to the Gaziantep Prosecutor's Office, they received around 2 tons of ammonium nitrate fertilizer to make explosives ten days before the massacre, and was previously detected by the seller's tip. How is it that anyone involved in ISIS construction is identified with every detail of their purchase of explosive material, but nothing is done? And that information comes out of the 9 folder that's been stored. During the four-year trial, the lawyers didn't know about it because the prosecutors didn't use it in the indictment. One of the three prosecutors in this case later became a member of the Supreme Court, was made, not done; became a member of the Supreme Court, was appointed, promoted. No inspections at the rally, no calls at the entrances to the city, no reports of live bombs before the rally...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0087par0030	Let's do it, Mr. Kerestecioglu.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0086par0031	I was there, friends, and there are so many questions that need to be asked, and they're dealing with the Home Office, prosecutors and police who don't respond to the court's demands for information and documents. It's also the House's duty to investigate them, of course, even though ISIS is clearly known to have done it, as the main task of the government, which says its role is to expose the people responsible for this massacre. Yes, this is the capital. There is no state in the capital that does not blame itself for the massacre of more than 500 people who have been killed by 103 people. That is why not a single public official was tried in this country, not a single person resigned. This could've been another rally, it could've been your rally, is that how you're going to act? Don't sleep well one night and think about it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I will. I will, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0087par0034	I'll take your last words.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0086par0035	After those deaths, our lives changed, Turkey changed; that's what we wanted, the change of Turkey. Now, what could be more embarrassing than getting up five years from now and sending cops to the relatives' memorials and attacking them? But there's no shame in it, and there's no shame in it if no one takes responsibility. You will reject this motion today, and you will not be ashamed of it. Yeah, shame goes away if you don't take responsibility. Just think of this: 103 people were killed in the capital of a country by a bomb. I'm speaking to society now, not to power; I've already given up speaking to power. Yeah, no one sleeps well tonight, and let's think about it, how you can't account for what's in charge, and let's all have a moment of silence. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0087par0038	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the People's Democratic Party's Group, Mr. Tekin Bingöl. Here you are, Mr. Bingöl.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0088par0041	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The decision on Enis Berberoglu today is a decision that cannot be explained in any way by the law; it is purely political. Like so many other decisions before this, we now face a judgment that will never be spoken of, right, law, justice. A court that has completely lost its will, entrusted its own independent understanding of judgment, has once again forfeited Enis Berberoglu's rights by political decision. We're going to talk about the Gar massacre, a legal scandal, unfortunately, in the case of this massacre. As you know, there was a great massacre on October 10th five years ago, the bloodiest massacre in the history of the Republic. So, what happened? 103 peace ambassadors lost their lives; over 500 peace ambassadors were injured, lost their jobs, became disabled. Could this massacre have been avoided? Yes, it could have been avoided. And then the realities that came out showed that certainly if the concerned had been sensitive about it, this massacre would never have happened. There's a very important document confirming that, and it's a report from the Ministry's inspectors. Reported ten days ago, there are footsteps of a massacre like this, and, again, Ministry inspectors say that there is serious negligence and indifference here, but this massacre cannot be explained by negligence. What needs to be looked for here is the intention of covering up the people who are responsible for this massacre. Look, precious lawmakers, two people in Nizip are trying to buy 2 tons of nitrate in the early days, but they're not farmers, and when that sensitive shopkeeper sees this, they want IDs, and those who don't give IDs go back. That shop tells the police. So, what's going on? The people who went to that shop to get that nitrate, then it turns out they were the ones who carried out the massacre.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0089par0046	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Bingöl.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0088par0047	And when this massacre took place, then a paper is written to Ankara Governorate, which is said to be: there's a negligence here, there's an insensitivity here; security forces must be subject to investigation. All of this shows once again that there's a biased legal scandal going on here. Who's on trial? Here are the people who carried out the execution, the people who carried out the bomb, and a few people close to it. So, where are the original planners? No. They're always being wiped out in cases like this. You can't destroy it. Look, we put this aside: three days ago, on Saturday, it was the fifth year of the massacre. As always, security forces attacked families who would only stand in silence and put carnations in custody. You don't even tolerate it, you don't even tolerate it.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0089par0050	Let's greet Mr. Bingöl.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0088par0051	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, they've been there, but they haven't been in the area. You, lawmakers from Justice and Development, if you don't approve of this massacre, why haven't you been there with those families? Come on, if you don't have the guts to be with the parents, why don't you get yourself some carnations and go to the crime scene? So your understanding and your insensitivity walk parallel, just like those courts.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0090par0054	Have you ever been to a martyr, martyr? Have you been to a martyr's house, a martyr's house?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0088par0055	You may not see blood spatter on you from the Gar massacre. You may not be able to smell the burning smell from there. But we will continue to smell that burning smell. That image of 9 - year - old Veysel will never be destroyed. The glare in the eyes of the doves of peace will never be lost. And remember, these peace ambassadors are martyrs of peace, and we will continue to remind them of them at every opportunity.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0091par0057	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0092par0058	Mr. Turan, I promise you one minute from your position according to 60.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0091par0061	Mr. President, in a moment, our speaker will make the necessary statement, but I would like to say this. Returning to our group of Hatibin, there will be blood spatter, there will be no sensitivity. We deny the allegations and accusations of his style: "We, those whose heart is burned by terror in this country, are the people whose heart is burning, and we curse all terror wherever it comes from, and we try to do whatever there is to make sure that he does not live in this land. We want things to turn into a race...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0093par0062	You haven't paid your respects, my condolences!
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0094par0063	Why did you stop the memorial? You've taken him into custody.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0095par0064	Guys, excuse me.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0096par0065	I don't think this language is of any use to the dead or near the dead or to the judiciary, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0097par0066	Mr. President, I have a brief statement to make.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0095par0067	Mr. Special, come in, I promise you one minute according to 60.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0097par0069	Mr. President, we're under duress; in that respect, I listened very carefully to the speaker's speech. You may not be aware of the blood spatter on you. He said, "The Gar massacre and reminded you of the political responsibility of the Gar massacre." There will be no blood spatter on you. There is no expression. Under the report, I would like to correct it. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0095par0074	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Ankara MP Orhan Yegin. Here you go, Mr. Yegin.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0098par0077	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group regarding the proposal given by the HDP Group. First of all, the dispatch and administration center of our Liberation War, the meeting place of our great Parliament, Ankara, means that we all share the peace of the 97th anniversary of our capital, which I hereby salute our holy nation and the Veterans Assembly representing it, especially our Ankaran citizens. Dear MPs, I'm afraid we've all experienced a great deal of pain today in a traitorous terrorist attack on October 10, 2015, which bled our beautiful city into blood, which broke the law, all of us, without separating it. At a rally near the train station, more than 100 of our citizens lost their lives and 391 of our citizens were also injured in the bombing attacks of members of the DEAS terrorist organization. Dear lawmakers, let's be very clear: no matter what its source, its rhetoric, its purpose, its name is defined, whatever its name is, we are facing all kinds of acts of terrorism and terrorist organizations, and we must stand together. In the past, there is no difference between the terrorist attacks against our soldiers, our police, our guards, our public officials and innocent citizens and the attack on our civilians and defenceless citizens at the Ankara Train Station. Terror has no religion, no religion, no race, no thought. Terror is savagery; terrorism is cruelty; terrorism is the most obvious form of persecution. If there's a terrorist attack somewhere, we stand against it, regardless of who did it. If there's pain in one place, we share it deeply, without looking at it, from whatever political view, color, shape, skin, we strive to live with it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As a nation, especially us as politicians and political parties, as NGOs and media, we must and should all present our position together with the same sensitivity, with the same sincerity, with the same human and moral stance. Dear lawmakers, we've just witnessed some orators making incriminating speeches -- categorizing suffering, protecting organizations, protecting them; accusing us, us, us, all, with doubts that have no backs. Our Deputy Director of the Group has given the answer.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0099par0085	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Yegin.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0098par0086	Precious lawmakers, the solidarity and determination we show in these situations, where we have lost our values, our lives, our lives, and so on, will be the greatest, most meaningful response to terrorism. In this direction, everyone must act responsibly, speak carefully, and try to bury the joy of terror, not by accusing each other as terrorism intended, but by sticking together in the face of terror. We wish the peace of our nation, the peace of our nation, the peace of our country, the loss of their lives in the treacherous terrorist attacks of our country, the police, the police, the officer, the rich, the poor, the business, the official, the civilian, without any distinction, the people, the women, the men, the children, the young, all our citizens, God's mercy and suffering, and the fire burning, perhaps as much as they do, to their grieving families and loved ones. It's this and it's those who aim at our unity and unity, to the presence of our country, and it's those who aim for them.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0099par0089	Let's bow. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0098par0091	...the ones who planned these attacks and the ones who enjoyed these attacks, we curse them all with the most glorious expressions, the most powerful expressions. (EA/DG) I respectfully salute the General Assembly that we will continue our fight against all terrorist organizations and that we will not allow terrorism to reach its goals in this land.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0099par0093	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0100par0096	Mr. President, frankly, I've been very appreciative of your honor's speech that clearly differed from his party's general demeanor.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0101par0097	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0100par0098	But here's what we'll expect: we'll go together next year. We go to the memorial every year, and I don't understand why no one comes from the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0101par0099	It's because it's abused!
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0100par0100	Let's all go. Where 104 people died, the families said: "One person, either mother or father... until so long... they went to those police officers, and they were not allowed to do that." Süleyman Soylu won't come to the phone until after the memorial is over, Ankara Governor, Ankara Security Director won't come out until after the memorial; then I turned around and I was busy. I was in a meeting for five years, four years. Come on, next year, let's get into those families' arms, let them go and put their carnations in there. We're in a system where every decision is taken from one authority, down the hill, and defended, and you're in the name of bureaucracy that doesn't allow memorials to families, and then you're doing the appointment, and then you're having this conversation here. There's something wrong with one of them, that's what separates you from your attitude. I appreciate the talk.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0102par0103	Let's finish, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0100par0104	I'm finishing, Mr. President, a sentence. But saying that here and then putting the TOMAs in front of those families and not letting them near where the explosion happened, pushing those grieving mothers, grieving wives, orphaned children, that doesn't fit the conversation. Choose your attitude, defend that attitude, or act as you do here in front of Gar. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0103par0108	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0104par0110	Mr. President, that's exactly what I didn't extend for the economy of procedure just now. We don't approve of a climate where suffering is raced. Every soul that dies is ours. Based on our deputy's speech, the party's opinion is separate, the deputy's opinion is separate. I don't find it right to evaluate our internal relations -- in the face. As our whole group, I'm the Deputy Group President, and I say that every soul that dies in this country is our pain. How can I say more? But if you put it in a very shallow way, with very cheap politics -- you came in, we didn't come in -- then they'll tell you, you have 120 deputies; 10 of them came in, 110 of them against it? Besides, it's not possible to catch up with every martyr, every victim of terror. Of course we want to go there, we want to be together, there might be some kind of answer to that, but if you try to make it look like you're doing a roll call like that, I'll tell you again, this time, other funerals start counting, and that's a painting we don't want at all. I think it would be helpful to look at 82 million brothers and sisters with a calmer, cold mind, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0103par0112	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0105par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, well, the truth is, it's hard not to appreciate the speaker's speech. The Ankara massacre, the Gar massacre, is said to be one of Turkey's biggest massacres, even the biggest. Let me express my appreciation. But it's impossible not to mention that contradiction. Just three days ago, there was a severe intervention in a memorial program that included our party committee, our party members, and there were detentions. We're talking about a gas-infested massacre that has been attacked every year, even after the explosion. I mean, we know very well that there's no need for conversation here. Our clerk explained it well, so we're dealing with the process of exonerating the accused of the massacre, the suspects. It's only about Georgia... we have a motion that Georgia sends the suspect to Turkey twice, Turkey returns a suspect wanted twice with a red bulletin to Georgia. And last but not least, I haven't met a ruling party MP or official who condemned the massacre except Prime Minister Davutoglu before October 10th, and if I'm wrong, they can correct me. So we didn't hear them say anything about not just the podium, but a massacre this big, so let's put that on the record.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0106par0117	Yes, Mr. Beştaş, copy that.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0107par0123	Request roll call.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0106par0124	The People's Democratic Party has a request for a roll call before we submit the group proposal to your votes, and we will do so. Mr. Sümer, Mr. Erbay, Mr. Kılıç, Mr. Gökçel, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Başevirgen, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Kaysoglu, Mr. Keven, Mr. Gündoğdu, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Tokdemir, Mr. Güzymansur, Mr. Hakverdi, Mr. Ilhan, Mr. Unsal, Mr. Girgin. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, starting roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday 13/10/2020 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. Karaman MP İsmail Atakan Üsver and his friends recommended Parliamentary Research, which was given to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 7/10/2020, to investigate the reasons why coal mining was closed, particularly Ermenek. lu) has been proposed to take their talks ahead of other proposals and to meet on Tuesday (13/10/2020/2020). On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Karaman MP İsmail Atakan Ünver to explain the reason for the group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Ünver.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0108par0146	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, today is indeed a black day in terms of our democracy and the state of law; the resolution of our MP Enis Berberoglu has laid another stone of unconstitutional, unlawfulness. The Constitution, which binds everyone in the country, does not bind some; it does not bind the AKP (AKP); it does not bind the courts in AKP's direction. If you don't recognize the Constitution, which is the source of all our legitimacy, this nation, who believes in democracy, will teach you such a lesson that you can't even believe what it is or how it is. Can politics be done without a constitutional guarantee, friends? Thanks to you, we will continue to defend the interests of these poor people, and if we were afraid of iron, we would not have taken the train. On October 28, 2014, we recently lost Uncle Recep, a miner's father, who had been represented by his torn lines in the mining disaster in Ermenek. We also lost another miner in the flu explosion that took place today in Stock Iskil. I pray for God's mercy to Uncle Recep and all our mine martyrs and bow before his memory. In recent years, 14,000 miners working in stone coal and lignite coal mines were unemployed, and in 2010 the number of public-owned stones and lignite coals, 48, was reduced to 13 put back to 2018, while the number of private stones and lignite coals, 649, dropped to 441. These figures clearly show the crisis that coal mining has fallen into our country. For example, after the disaster that killed 18 of our miners in Ermenek, the number of Januarys was 9 to 3, 2,800-3. The number of miners was 180 to 200, and the number of trucks registered in the transport co-op has dropped from 380 to 70. The mining sector has been brought to an end by reducing the sector due to wrong policies, redevance in public-owned mines, or by giving private entrepreneurs a mining license, contrary to the principle that natural resources are under the rule and savings of the state. Coal mining, unfortunately, has come to the attention at this time either by job killings or by the actions of workers to seek rights. The actions of miners who were victimised by the boss in Ermenek district of Karaman have been the most recent example. The miners who first started the act in December 2019 on the grounds that they could not receive their wages began by February 2020, and the employer who paid part of the workers had immediately laid off these workers without compensation. Finally, in the same mining business, mining workers who were not paid for two to thirteen months were fired on August 31, 2020, for their salaries, compensations, annual permits and automatic BES cuts, but most of the miners who exercise the rights of the Labour Law were dismissed by their employer on charges of violating moral and good will. In the pandemic process of banning workers, the employer, who laid off workers, did not recognise the law, but, on the grounds that it was discharged, brought public conscience to a halt. And again, over the years in Soma, the victims of the soma, despite all the calls and warnings of our Group Vice President, Mr. Free Special, and of our Manisa MPs, have not been fully resolved or solved. An arrangement on the Redevans fields must be expanded to cover private mining sites in Soma, Ermenek, and all over the country. Let's support this research proposal or we'll make a joint motion, we'll investigate all the problems of coal mining in our country, and we'll work out the solutions. There is no more room for a moment to endure and lose. A mine worker in action says I'm ashamed to go home. You know why? He starts school, asks for a book, wants a pen, wants a bag, and says, "What will I buy it with?" Another person was pregnant. I said give me some of the money I deserve, they didn't give me a penny. All the ruling authorities have put ear to the worker's cry.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0109par0152	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Univer...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0108par0153	We're supposed to be equal citizens of the same country, but some people spend $10 million a day in their palace, while others go home embarrassed because they don't have any money in their pocket. It's not my laborer's brother who can't bring bread to his house, who can't get what his child wants, who runs the country. If only they knew how to be ashamed, they don't know how to be ashamed, but they know how to inspire patience to the poor. The workers who acted in order to compensate for the sweat of the forehead wanted to walk from Soma Yesterday to Ankara and Ermenek to Ankara to the deaf of Ankara, but the government was afraid of the worker again and blocked the roads again. The government, which has not heard the worker's cries for months, has heaped hundreds of gendarmes into the coal basin of Cennek. The miners interfered with our brothers and their families with batons, pepper spray, and others were injured. I condemn this treatment of the worker. Once again, the AKP has put its position on the side of the employer, not on the side of labour and laborer, but on the side of the employer.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0109par0155	Mr. Ünver, let's say hello.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0108par0156	The AKP has again chosen a way of beating the boss, a way of beating the worker. When it comes to the rich again, give me God, I'll eat God's food. As for the poor, shoot God. But don't forget, short trash will get it from the long trash, of course. The worker will not enter into the shroud that has been set upon him, and victory will surely be your worker's, with struggle, with determination, with determination, with peace. Peace be on Ermenek, and on Soma, and on the four corners of the land. My respects to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0110par0160	On behalf of the Republican People's Party group's group proposal, Mr. Fahrettin Yoshush is a member of the Constabulary. Here you go, Mr. Hill.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0111par0163	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all on behalf of the good party. On the anniversary of our capital city of Ankara, once again, I remember our capitalism with respect, love, gratitude. Today, there was an explosion in a mine in Çırum Iskil, and one of our workers received the mercy of Hakk, and three of our workers were injured. I pray for the mercy of God to our workers who have received the mercy of God, and to our wounded brothers, and to heal them quickly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as our esteemed proxy has just stated, our miners in Ermenek are in a great deal of trouble. We went there about a month ago with our deputy, and we listened to his problems. We saw that our miners were unclaimed. We've made legal arrangements over time, with good regulations, about the hours, the working hours, fixing the working conditions of our mines, but you'll find that it lacks control. All of our mines are government, we all know it. To oversee these mines that we've given to the employer or the companies we've hired... so let's just dig the mines, get the money from here to our government, transfer funds to our budget... and of course they're valuable. The worker who works there, the worker who works there, what conditions do they work there, and who will protect their rights? But unfortunately, in 2014, we lost 18 of our citizens in that accident, but despite the past six years, you know, some of our brothers who died were still not given compensation, sweats, rights. We interviewed union representatives there who acted, sought rights, said they hadn't received their wages in thirteen months, people looking for families and children in the mine. These are all of our brothers and sisters, we are all responsible for them, especially those who are in charge of them, but no representative has been in charge of them for months.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0112par0168	Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0111par0169	Neither TKI nor the Ministry of Labor, nor a minister of your political power, nor a representative, did he ask, "What is your status?" Why don't you ask? Don't you consider them citizens? Don't you consider them human? If so, then why are you in power? If so, why are we sitting around here? Please, I beg you, for the sake of God, we have about 1,000 miners in Ermenek, who are not getting their due -- from these furnaces -- and now more than 100 are not getting paid for thirteen months. What the hell? So it's not enough to make a legal arrangement. Why can't you tell the employer, brother, that if you don't pay this worker's wages, I'll take this stove away from you? Let's find out whose side you're on. So whose side are you on, work or boss? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You'll be tested, and if you don't interfere here, once again, you'll be on the boss' side. Hopefully, you'll mislead us. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0113par0174	We're with the laborer, the laborer.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0114par0175	On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on the Republican People's Party proposal, İzmir MP Murat Çepni. Here you go, Mr. Chepni.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0115par0178	Thank you, Mayor. Eight years ago, 18 mine workers were killed in Ermenek, and 301 mine workers were killed in a business accident in Soma. I bow before his memories with respect. Just after the business accident, the massacre, thousands of workers in Soma were left unemployed without compensation. At the same time, the Prime Minister's Counsellor kicked his fellow workers. At Ermenek again, 18 workers lost their lives as a result of the flood, and those workers are still not compensated. So thousands of workers were fired without compensation in Ermenek, and Soma, and the struggle is still under way. On October 12th, the Independent Mining Workers' Union attempted to march to Ankara, again, to announce their rights and voices, and again, as usual, police barricades were set in front of the labourer and workers were attacked, the gas was sprayed. Now, in this process, the Mining Law is on the agenda, which has changed 23 times in 13 years, and is now being discussed in the Commission. What comes in the Mining Law, in the new Mining Law? Mining, natural gas and electricity companies will be exempted from the tax, tuition, rent costs and production fees they must pay. The licensed mining companies are allowed to continue their activities. The woodcuts outside the CED field are left unpunished. Yes, in what process is this happening? These are the new concessions provided to companies under the same conditions as the total number of unemployed is nearing 20 million, the hunger limit is $2.448, and the palace's annual spending is $3.6 billion. Now, you know, Alamos Gold has occupied the Kaz Mountains with his license suspended for over a year. So when a traveling salesman took over an hour's sidewalk, the government was in charge of the government, and the government was in the government, and the government was in the government because it owed a penny, and the Canadian company Alamos Gold occupied the Kaz Mountains for a year, and the state was gone. Now, since years ago, the AKP palace coalition is a coalition of corporations, and the palace coalition is a representative of national and international companies, and that's why we're saying it. I ask you again: how did Alamos Gold end up in the Kaz Mountains for a year? Here, today's Commission law is a Alamos Gold law. Today, the AKP palace coalition makes new laws so that Alamos Gold can continue his activities there, so that he can cut down more trees.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0116par0186	Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0115par0187	So, we say, yes, the working class will resist exploitation, of course, against rights extortion; they will unite, of course, to raise the struggle to get their rights, but the AKP and the palace coalition must know that no war against the people has won any dictatorship. Those who oppose the working class, those who bury them seven floors underground, will surely pay for it. We're with the mine worker who resists, and those who resist will surely win. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0116par0190	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group on the proposal of the Republican People's Party, Mr. Polat Türkmen is a member of the Zonguldak MP. Here you go, Mr. Turkmen.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0117par0193	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group regarding the Republican People's Party Group proposal. I salute you all. Dear friends, I ask God's mercy to all of our miners who are first martyrs in the mines. Because of the fire in Hatay, which has hurt our hearts lately, I wish all of our Hatay people well, and I believe that those responsible will be found and punished as soon as possible. First of all, the Karaman Ermenek Genne Linyit Coal Company has been suspended as part of the Mining Act following the accidents; in accordance with the court's rulings, 130 workers have been paid €468,468 euro in compensation for the location mentioned by the General Directorate of Mines and Oil. Under the Mining Law and the Mining Rule, the underground January activities have been halted following the examination of its site, and it has been noted that the recent news is that the company has paid full salary and compensation, which is the rights of workers who should be doing it themselves. Our Minister of Energy, the General Directorate of Mines and Oil and the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services have been informed and stated that the work continues. Dear lawmakers, our Ministry of Energy continues to present and offer our national wealth to both our economy and our nation, by applying new concepts in order to bring our local and national subterranean and above-ground resources into the economy during the time of the EC PARTI governments; it continues our work on the energy sector, not only domestically but abroad. In these statements, I would like to say that in 2010, the Mining Research Commission was established in this Parliament, and I was vice president of it. A thousand pages of documents are available in the Parliament. By traveling around the world, and by going to Canada, we have completed our shortcomings by changing the laws of this Parliament and our government, which have collected them and made them a law. As you can see today, the next time our Parliament has established the Mining Research Commission, and within three months, it has traveled all sectors, making changes to our shortcomings, to the Mining Law. I'd like everyone to know that, as you say, in this House, we have passed laws on the contributions of all parties, the loss of rights in Soma, as soon as possible in order to prevent the loss of rights.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0118par0200	Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0117par0201	Thank you. Ermenek is one of them, but I would like to say in particular: Are you with the worker, or are you with the worker? Zonguldak is the capital of labor, we're MPs there. We're with the worker. We know exactly how he is. We have 5,000 martyrs there. That's why it feels so good, and we know them very well. On the 20th month of the 9th month, the mining and oil work authorities went there and closed the mine. They're also being audited, but accidents are correct. Along with the laws we passed... here, in order to prevent business safety accidents, again, in order to improve the working hours, our House has passed very important laws -- all of you know that -- we will continue to take them out. With these thoughts, I salute your great coven. Good evening.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0119par0208	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0120par0209	Before the Republican People's Party submits the group proposal to your votes, there's a request for roll call, so let's do it. Mr. Gökçel, Mr. Ünver, Mr. Kılıç, Mr. Bakırlıoğlu, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Başevirgen, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Kaysoglu, Mr. Demirtaş, Mr. Barut, Mr. Gündoğdu, Mr. Kuymansur, Mr. Koksal, Mr. İlhan, Mr. Unsal, Mr. Girgin, Mr. Hakver, Mr. Tokdemir, Mr. Tokdemir. Yeah, I'll give you three minutes to roll call, starting roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday 13/10/2020 (now), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The Law Proposal for Amendments in some Laws and Technology Development Act 229 and the Law on Changes in Some Laws, which was issued under pressure in 228 rows and other Jobs From Commissions, respectively, in order of the 1st and 3rd rows of other tasks, and the introduction of the order of other tasks to the agenda before the end of 48 hours of the Law Proposal of Law. On Tuesday, October 13, 2020, until the completion of chapter one talks of Law Proposal 228 in the merger on Tuesday (today), On Wednesday (October 14th 2020), until the meeting of Law Proposal 228, Until the completion of the 228th Law Proposal on Thursday (October 14, 2020), in the unification of the talks of the 228th Law Proposal, October 15, 2020, on Thursday (October 15, 2020). On Thursday (October 15, 2020) the meeting of Law Proposal 228 on Thursday (October 228) was not completed, until the meeting of the Law Proposal 228 was completed on Friday (October 16th 2020) at 2:00 p.m. and the meeting of Law Proposal 228 was completed on Friday (October 2020). On Tuesday, October 2020, until the completion of the first chapter talks of Law Proposal 221 in the merger on Tuesday (October 2020), On Wednesday (October 21st 2020), until the meeting of the Law Proposal No. 221 in the merger on Wednesday (October 21st), The completion of the Law Proposal 221 to the completion of talks on Thursday (October 21st 2020) on Thursday (October 22nd 2020), in the unification of the talks of the Law Proposal 221, in the event that the talks could not be completed on Wednesday (October 2020). The Law Proposals 228 and 229 were proposed to be considered the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code, and its divisions in the accompanying table. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Ramazan Can. Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0121par0240	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. In our group proposal, we move the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws to the 1st place on the agenda by Public Financial Management and Control Law 228 rows. We move the Law on Technology Development Law 229 to the third place on the agenda. The first chapter of the proposal on the 228 rows of Public Financial Management and Control Law will be held today until the meeting of the first part of the meeting is held tomorrow, and tomorrow will not be finished, and Thursday will not be finished, and Friday will not be the end of the talks. We propose that the General Assembly work until the talks of Law Proposal 228 are completed by opening at 00.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0122par0242	Mr. President, let's start tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. Why 14. We're starting at 00?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0121par0243	In addition, next Tuesday (October 20th) we plan to complete the first part of the Law Proposal 221 on Tuesday (October 20th) -- all of which we discussed last week -- of which we agreed to move on to its articles -- and we plan to complete the entire chapter of the first part on Wednesday, and the entire thing on 22th. If it's not over Wednesday, next Thursday, we recommend the end of the Agricultural Law as our group proposal. I present to you the approval of the General Assembly that these laws should be discussed as the basic law, and I wish you a successful week of work, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0123par0245	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on behalf of the Justice and Development Party's proposal, Mr. Meral Danış Beştaş. Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0124par0248	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let's proceed with the trial. What kind of judgment is there? Yesterday, Sebahat Tuncel and Aysel Tuğluk were arrested in Kandıra Prison for four years, but they were re-arrested due to an investigation into the Kobani protest. Six years later, strange calls were answered everywhere, and it stands in front of us as a stage of the attacks against HDP. What is it? What happened six years later? Strangely enough, a secret witness was invented. There's no secret witness, don't get me wrong. How do we know you don't have a secret witness? Because it violates the principles of fair trial, which were convicted by the İHM of the secret witness institution. It is an institution in which Turkey has been convicted in hundreds of cases. We don't see the secret witness, we don't touch him, we don't ask any questions, we don't know his identity, they're freaking out, they're saying there's a secret witness in the file. We've seen his statement, it's confidential, but we've seen it from the statements. Six years ago -- a so-called HDP delegation went somewhere, and I passed that, Kamuran Yüksek, Demirtaşa, brought instructions from Kandil, and then MYK made a decision. Are you kidding me? For one thing, the process of resolving that period was ongoing. Our delegation -- the official, the public -- was always written in media organs -- was going to Kandil. There is no need for one of the Kandil people to bring instructions, but the solution process was already under way. As part of the solution process, you were bringing the photos from the Imran, publishing them, knowing that our delegation had gone. They gave false testimony to the confidential witness. What's the other one? Sir, six years later, the D.A. said that the case we filed four years ago was 2911. No, no, no, 302. Why? For every day the President cried out in the square, the murderer of my 54 citizens. The prosecutor said, "Ha, this killer says I have to make a new case, just like Enis Berberoğlu today." It can't be in the law, so it doesn't cover the notion that it can't be. Six years later, the verb changed, just as it did with Osman Kavala. Let's call it a political conspiracy. The arrest of our friends because of the Kobani protests is the continuation of the political conspiracy to arrest Demirtaş, Yüksekdağ, MİK members, Aysel Tuğluk and Sebahat Tuncel yesterday.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0123par0251	Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0124par0252	I'm sure this conspiracy is a conspiracy, and the ruling party lawmakers know it well. They only know that if they ask their conscience, if they're looking at the normal course of life, they'll know. So let me say this: For once, making indictments with the words of the President or a political official is an attack on the legal state, judicial neutrality and independence, constitutional order. Just as Enis Berberoglu made this decision today, the prosecutor who opened the second investigation in the Kobani protests committed the same crime as the judge attempted to wipe out constitutional order. By God, we'll see the sides of these political plots on the stand. Until then, we will continue our struggle. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0125par0255	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0126par0256	Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0125par0259	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, there was a process of resolving the hat from the high curtain again. I think it's an example for everyone who knows political history. Then the whole world knows how much we've paid to contribute to this country's brotherhood by drinking almost hemlock venom. But these were the talks of a party that we believed would be on the side of democracy, and never with terrorism, not with terrorists, in the process that he called the negotiations. But instead of saying, "Stop terror," we were forced to face a structure that preferred to be the trumpet, car, whatever you want to call the terrorist organization, rather than distanced it from terrorism. Look, at least you'll be ashamed of what you do. We did it, we made a mistake. He says, he faces it. Now, we didn't make a MYK decision, the court was charging him. If you say so...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0126par0262	Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0125par0263	...then the world knows that when the Kobani actions began, Abdullah Ocalan gave his instructions to the street, and then Murat Karayılan gave them, and then Bese Hozat gave them, and then, one day later, the decision was signed by Demirtaş, insisting that they go out to our people. I mean, a man makes a mistake, he makes a mistake, he says: "We are ashamed, we have caused slaughter to a lot of people, that's not the point. People died, the place burned down, we didn't want it to be like this. First he faces it politically, then he doesn't discuss the court's decision or discuss it. But if you say that there is no decision that exists without embarrassment, we will judge you in the language of threat. I say from here: This nation and this state and this judiciary will defend its rights, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0126par0265	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0127par0267	Thank you, Mr. President. I didn't mean it. I just said it. There's an effort to make you forget about the solution process, there's an effort to condemn a period, and we're talking about a process where power is on the side. We've always said that we've always defended the solution process. We defend and stand behind the Kurdish issue as we defended dialogue and the solution of the issue of democratisation of Turkey yesterday. This country, Turkey, we all need it. However, it is not in line with political ethics to criminalize the roles, verbs, deeds, works, and keep them in prison, which are involved in the solution process. We've worked together, and we don't feel bad about it, we don't feel uncomfortable about it.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0128par0271	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0127par0272	Whatever party there is in power, if there is so much blood flow, a war, a solution, we will exist again, and we are aware that all actors wanted to be convicted at that time, all actors were targeted, but I tell the citizens of Turkey that they have targeted the HDP (HDP) actors, but they are in no position to take part in this issue. It's not a crime, there's nothing to be afraid of, very important things have been done for this country. On the other hand, in the matter of the Kobani protests, we don't say the opposite of anything we do. We said, "There's no official MYK decision. There's a....... we said there's a......... we said the same thing, there's a thrown................. Now, the attempt to connect this to the organization is really futile because there is no such connection. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0129par0276	I'll take your word for it.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0127par0277	I remind you from the notes: there is not a single act of violence until October 6th, when a police bullet was killed by Hakan Buksur on October 7. In fact, we need to call the protests, not October 6-7-8, but October 7-8. And when did that happen? After the president's statement, the president fell. After saying "Kobani," the public is saying that the number of people who died with police bullets is wrong every day, considering the seriousness of the issue, the possibility that Kobani would fall. 43 people died, and 33 of them were HDP people, the first Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) to be killed. The first was the HDP people whose houses and shops were looted. If we do something wrong, we'll give our people self-criticism for it, but this is the debate point of politics -- no matter what party it is -- and it's the chest. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mayor.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0129par0280	I'll take your last word.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0127par0281	Politicians pay the bill in the chest. It is not to prosecute political opponents, parties, or to say that you have attempted to kill people, or to prosecute people from 302. It's not political ethics. If we do wrong, the people will give us Our punishment, and if they do wrong, they will give it to us. I'd like to invite him from a truly objective point of view.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0129par0282	Copy that, thank you. Yes, Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0130par0285	Mr. President, I'll try to speak very carefully so it doesn't grow. Look, since the speaker is so objective, I'll tell you why. In his talks, he claims that the president said he would fall.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0131par0287	Didn't he?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0132par0288	That's what he said.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0130par0289	Sir...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0133par0290	Please, let's address the General Assembly, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0130par0291	If you close your eyes, you'll make yourself a night, dear friends.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0134par0292	Didn't he?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0130par0293	That meeting has its beginning, its end. In Kobani, certain countries are giving weapons to the PKK. They are making talks. During that meeting, the opposite side fell to warn about it; do not give up the gun. There is a matter of action. It's not the President's statement, it's the opposite. So a lot can be said if you really look in the mirror and consider them calmly.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0135par0294	Don't give him a gun, let him fall. You mean?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0134par0295	Forget the story.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0130par0296	However, today I find it very valuable for former members of the group to be critical of HDP. In Turkey, it
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0136par0298	Mr. Turan, please wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0130par0299	Well, Mr. President, the same bowl, the same bath. Be a democratic party, be not a puppet of Kandil, be not a spokesman here. They laugh their way out of the way. Let them continue. And we'll know what's what. (APPLAUSE) I wasn't going to say it; if they laughed, then I'll tell you. See, as they call it, there's still a call from HDP's official Twitter account. We're going to see if we're notarized by the MYK decision. The official Twitter account says the same thing: the call from HDP MYK (HDP) who is currently in session. Your official account is still in effect today. We invite our people to go out on the street and support those who have gone out on the street.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0137par0300	What's the big deal?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0130par0301	What is it after you have done this? I say to him, "Woe to you! 50 people dead, 700 injured.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0138par0304	Mr. Turan, please address the General Assembly, let's not talk mutually.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0130par0305	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0139par0306	We're exercising our democratic rights.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0140par0307	Who called you to the street on July 15th?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0141par0308	People called, people!
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0142par0309	Mr. President said this call was not an official call. And when he said it was an official call, he said, "What's wrong with that?" Yeah, you know what, Mr. President? When this happened, there were people in 35 provinces who went out to the street, and there were fires, and burnings, and more than 50 people died, and more than 800 were injured. What more do you need? What do you have to do? You're going to divide the streets in the process, digging ditchs is supposed to be a process that starts with autonomy, and without autonomy, you're going to try to build another Turkey with this kind of action. This nation did not allow it, nor will it allow it, nor will the assembly allow it. But it is my claim that I hope that you will still be well-wishing, still well-intentioned by you -- that we will get support from a group, a group of people -- act like a party, distance yourself from the terrorist organization. I find it precious that people say.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0143par0311	Mr. Turan, this is the last time we'll open your microphone.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0142par0312	Even if you laugh, it's not the road you're going to go to, the way you're going to, the way you're going to, the way you're going to, the way you're going to, the way you're going to, the way you're going to, the way you're going. There's the candle, there's Apo, there's no need for you. I find it precious to be called. You're laughing at the way you're crying, you're crying. If you have anyone who says, "Stay with the democracy." I find it precious. That's not a bad thing. There's nothing to laugh about. (HDP rows of noise) But when you have to stand by democracy, you have to go along with the work of HDP's democracy to become a representative there, there's the gate, there's the square! That's why I'm saying...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0144par0313	Oh, for God's sake!
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0142par0314	That's why I'm saying that you're laughing at the appreciation of your precious approach.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0144par0315	We've adopted and appreciated the speech of your predecessor.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0142par0316	That's what really happened, how the process went. If only people of the HDP base could say, "What do we have in the construction of democracy?"
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0144par0318	Is it up to you to appreciate the attitude in us?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0142par0319	The solution process gave it the opportunity. These people... Breaking news, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0145par0321	I'll take your word for it.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0142par0322	You know, these folks, they're gonna pull a gun out of the mountain and lend you credit for playing reeds in the city, and they're gonna run it, and they're gonna help, and they're gonna...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0146par0323	What are you playing, Mr. Turan?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0142par0324	...to see if he would take part in the democratic regime. What have you been up to? The pit actions, the October 6th or 8th events, you've always been in front of us to stand by the country, let alone dozens, hundreds of other actions. Just yesterday in Azerbaijan, all parties attack from Armenia, all parties are coming together. They say, "We condemn the person who did it." You can't say that, "Yes." So I'm saying that either you're going to decide that despite different views in Turkey, despite different understandings, you're going to shoulder the construction of democracy within this system, or you're going to go ahead and do the applause of Kandil.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0146par0326	You're not a democracy! Who are you to democracy!
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0147par0327	Mr. Oluç, come in. Guys, we're gonna take the next round from the podium, and know that I'm not gonna promise your position because of the bullying, guys.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0148par0329	Mr. President, will the Deputy Directors of the Group talk to each other? What kind of Parliament is that?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0147par0330	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0149par0332	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Turan, since he wasn't here last week when we were talking about these things, and he probably didn't follow them, he wasn't very specific, that's how I see it. Because if he had watched those conversations, at least he wouldn't have said some of the things he's saying now. I mean, we're gonna keep talking about it, because it's important. Look, our speaker said that since the solution process and negotiations continued during that period, we carefully chose every step we took because we were so sensitive about that period. He told you that, but you don't understand that. Now, look, I told you here last week, where I was sitting and on the stand. It's not like that, Mr. Turan, it's not like that!
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0150par0337	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0149par0338	Now, you're telling us. On the 9th of the month, in a hurry, who brought us a message from Imralı, a message written in hand, so that we could read it to us, so that the provocations would end? Who brought it? You brought it, your power brought it. I tell you where you brought it from, and behold, you brought it from the Imran in the morning on the 9th. And Denizhattin Demirtaş came out in Diyarbakir, he read the message that came in his handwriting so that no more incidents would continue. I'll get to that. Look, we didn't avoid anything, and I testified myself, so I'm a member of the CDC, I'm a co-president, I testified myself. Yes, it's true that we removed that tweet from the General Central account, but it's said that there is no official MYK decision. It's something else, don't confuse a legal thing with a political one. We say two things, you mix them together. We don't call it that. We say, "Yes, Kobani has fallen."
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0150par0340	Mr. Oluç, let's wrap this up, please.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0151par0341	I've got what I need, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0149par0342	I don't understand.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0151par0343	I'm telling you, we got what we came for. It was precious that you told him to be on that tweet.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0152par0344	Let's not talk mutually.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0149par0345	Yes, we all said that in our statements, Mr. Turan. There's nothing in this that we've ever denied.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0151par0346	I mean, we invited him to the street, but it's not official!
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0149par0347	Look, I also told you here last week -- I don't understand if your friends aren't telling you this -- for 48 hours, 6-8 hours on October 6th, 48 hours in your Home Secretary's office, then our deputy and Director Sırrı Sırrıyya Önder fought for 48 hours to stop things with Efkan Ala. One-on-one, our borough organizations have been searched so the provocateurs don't get played. We told them all about it from here on the stand. Ask your Home Secretary first, Mr. Efkan Ala to tell you that there are not only others, but I have given you other names here: Mahir Ünal, Yalçın Akdoğan... there are other names, we will give them to you as long as it continues to be discussed.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0153par0349	I'll take your word for it.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0149par0350	I'm picking it up, sir. The last thing I'm saying is, look, we're not avoiding discussing this. We've made several motions to investigate this, to set up a research commission, to discuss it, and we're not running away from arguing. On the contrary, we'd like to discuss it. In all detail, we want this House and the public to know everything. Again, we're not running away from an argument. You're the one who covered it up and ran away from the debate, and you're the one who's trying to make sure there's no research commission, because why? There are some things you're afraid to say. Here, we want to talk about them, Mr. Turan. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0154par0354	They agreed to go out on Twitter. There's always a price to pay for going out on the street, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0155par0355	Okay. The Republican People's Party has proposed a group of members of the Justice and Development Party...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0156par0357	What did they agree to?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0157par0358	Mr. President, is that possible? On the 15th of July, you called to the street, 250 people died, and you're on trial?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0155par0359	Guys...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0156par0360	Are you on trial?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0157par0361	And for the record, are you going to be tried? Is calling people to the street a provocation? Is that calling for violence?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0155par0362	Friends, both groups have their own power...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0158par0363	You called for violence on the street. For democracy...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0155par0365	Guys... On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0159par0367	That was for democracy, that was for human rights. In Kobani, they were called to the street so that people would not die.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0160par0368	You called me out on the street to cause chaos.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0155par0369	Dear Oluç...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0161par0370	You know it was your people who killed him. Yours did, yours did.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0155par0371	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0162par0372	You called me out on the street to cause chaos.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0163par0373	Why can't you digest the salvation of Kobani?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0155par0374	Friends, Mr. Group Vice Presidents, I'm trying to give you all the time I can to be as democratic as I can, to tell you all about yourself.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0164par0375	No, they're responsible for the killing, they're blaming us, they're in power. 33 Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) people have been killed, the state is trying to upload them, they are the Interior Minister, they are the Minister of Justice, they are trying to upload them to someone else. Is that a thing?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0155par0376	Yeah, both groups have their own... you tell them, they tell them.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0165par0377	No, Mr. President, that can't happen.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0164par0378	No, we can't accept this sentence, it says: "They called me to the street, there's a price." What do you mean? Democracy is the street.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0155par0379	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0166par0380	Mr. President, let me tell you one more time to calm down.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0164par0381	You calm down, you!
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0166par0382	I'm saying that calling him to the street, if you've killed 50 people after that, it's a reckoning. I'm saying that that's what I'm saying. When you invite this to court, there is no court of law. It can't be held in class.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0167par0383	Mr. Group Vice Presidents...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0166par0384	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0167par0385	Mr. Group Vice Presidents, both sides...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0168par0386	I'd like word on the record, please.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0169par0387	You're partners!
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0170par0388	Because you didn't oppose ISIS...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0171par0389	Please, friends, this is the Deputy Director of the Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0172par0391	Look, we talked about this last week, and I'm telling you again: from that day, October 6th to today, six years and a half cases have been filed, 1.5. So many people died, why didn't the judgment move, and why didn't the judgment bring those who killed people to justice? It's a case and a half! We're talking about one Yasin Bör case, the other one, a half-assed case. Why, but why hasn't the judge put people on trial for six years, filed a lawsuit? So, what you're saying is not true. Judgement has been silenced from that day until today, and now you've pushed the button politically, you're doing a political operation. It's not about the law, that's what we're saying.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0171par0392	Dear Oluç...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0172par0393	All these arrests are the result of a political operation, or the trial has been sitting around for six years. We say, judge, let him be judged, and let him be found out.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0171par0394	Yes, Mr. Oluç, I'm trying to be as democratic as I can on both sides, but we're not going to get any results because it's running away again, it's the same thing. It was discussed last week, as you said, I was here, and we're talking this week, maybe we'll talk again in the future. But I think if we have these conversations with respect to each other and we try our best to get the facts out in the open, the whole group will be relieved. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr Muharrem Men, Çanakkale MP, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Man.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0173par0401	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the High Council. In the general elections held on 24 June 2018, Mr. Enis Berberoglu, elected as Istanbul MP, was unfortunately dismissed by the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly with a final sentence. As the Republican People's Party, we asked a very simple question in the discussions that day, and look, there was no final verdict, there was an individual application in the Constitutional Court. Please wait for the Constitutional Court's decision, and do not make this decision read as a final verdict. We said, "You did not listen, but we asked: If the Constitutional Court finds a violation of rights, what will you do if it finds a serious violation based on the fourth joke of Article 83 of the Constitution? You're dropping the legislature, and what did the Constitutional Court say? The right of Enis Berberoglu to be elected and to perform political activities has been declared. Yeah, that happened. Enis Berberoglu's right to be elected and his right to political action has been removed from him, and other rights have been taken from him, but my time is limited. The Constitutional Court has issued its sanctioned verdict. Please read the 135th and 140th paragraphs in the justified decision, which is already very short and very clear. After the Constitutional Court determines the rights violations, it will be mandatory to retribut them. It's not a control of your place, it's not a judgment, it's a retrial.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0174par0405	That's not how it works. He wishes...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0173par0406	Because otherwise, the consequences of this breach will not be eliminated! The parliament has been reduced, the right to political action has been eliminated. Now, how will Enis Berberoglu be restored to the rights of a member of parliament that have been violated? The Supreme Court says that, what does it say? Make a retrial decision and make a decision to stop because Enis Berberoglu is a member of parliament, he has immunity. I'm going to read you a sentence on grounds. See, the bindingness of the Constitution is concerned with the rule of law, which is the 11th article -- our general president specifically stressed. In fact, what we're discussing today is not just the issue of Enis Berberoglu, but the issue of the rule of law, the issue of the state of law, the issue of separation of forces, democracy; we're actually discussing it. The problem is in the system because today Turkey is living the monocracy, not democracy, which is the sovereignty of one person. See what the Constitutional Court says in its decision: "Make a retrial, because there will be no other violations." What does it say in the sequel? At the next stage, the court is obliged to perform the necessary procedures to address the consequences of the violations in the Constitutional Court's decision.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0175par0410	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0173par0411	Look, he says he's competent; yes, he is. That's 14. I don't know the Constitutional Court's decision. There have been times when we have been critically critical of many of the Constitutional Court's decisions. For example, we rejected and criticised our application to the multiple bar. You can criticize it, you may not like it, but I do not comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court's decision is not binding to me. You can't say, "You can't say, you can't put the Constitution on the shelf." What does it mean to have the Constitution on the shelf? Unfortunately, thanks to you, the state of the Republic of Turkey is no longer a constitutional state, it has become a constitutional state. Where are the rights and freedoms of citizens, 83 million, citizens of the Republic of Turkey guaranteed?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0175par0413	Mr. Man, let's wrap this up.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0173par0414	Here, where are rights and freedoms, such as the right to political action, such as the right to freedom, such as the right to public safety, guaranteed? It's in the Constitution. What does that mean, if you say I don't know the Constitutional Court's decisions? The rights and freedoms of citizens in the Constitution are no longer guaranteed because they would have lifted the individual application. I assume you want to close the Constitutional Court. But as we've been saying all along, it's in the system. Why do we, as the National Alliance, insist on calling it the rationalized parliamentary system? Because Turkey can't go through this system, this system can't be revised. Look, I'm telling you this from the bottom of my heart, this is a system that brings pleasure, a system that enhances injustice; for him, a new constitution and a strengthened parliamentary system. The last sentence: Whatever you do, Mr. Enis Berberoglu is our 27th İstanbul MP. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0176par0418	I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, according to 60, I'm going to make a promise to our five deputies. Mr. Tokdemir...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0177par0423	Thank you, Mr. President. The fire that started in Belen district of Arsez and Alexanderun districts, the city of brotherhood, tolerance and civilisations, has been our greatest comfort to be controlled thirty-three hours later by the fire department and Hatay Metropolitan City fire brigades, and the lack of casualties. However, there is no way to describe the destruction of the fires in our souls. Not only did the fire burn where it fell, but it burned everyone with a conscience and a heart, and our nation's lungs burned. He is the traitor who burned our forests, he must be punished with the most severe punishment. I thank those who have worked hard to fight the fire, and demand that the victims of our countrymen be removed immediately. Get well soon, Hatay.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0178par0427	Mr. Bakırlıoğlu...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0179par0429	Thank you. Mr. President, in the last year of the legislature, we had united the victims of the 2,800 workers of Soma A.Ş. in Soma., under the roof of Parliament. In my speech at the Assembly that day, I mentioned that Soma had no more problems, that the miners in Turkey had no more problems. The victim of 782 Mining has been victimized for eight years. For that day, promises were made to the victims of Mining, and promises were made under the roof of this House that the victim would be relieved. The problem remains, however, and the knife is now up to the bone. The miners' representatives made a press statement yesterday and headed to Ankara, where they and their comrades in Ermenek were headed simultaneously, but were stopped by law enforcement. The reason to stop it is Pandemia. Pandemi, who did not prevent 15,000 miners from working underground in Soma, prevented workers from walking righteously and honorablely. This is against the Constitution.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0180par0433	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0181par0435	Thank you, Mr. President. We're getting a sense of the Week of Harmony and Culture. Harmony is the name of a socioeconomic structure that combines good morality, righteousness, brotherhood, charity, all good qualities. Established in the 13th century, the basis for the perfect production of goods and customer satisfaction is respect and love in the master-student relationship. The virtue of the establishment and development of the assembly is Ahi Evran. A driver's license and integrity are essential in order to get up in law enforcement. Those who didn't learn their profession well couldn't open a shop. As the number of tradesmen and shops was limited, so was the production of goods based on the need. The regulations of the constitution were called futüvets. According to futüvets, acts such as drinking, adultery, lying, gossip, deceit would require dismissal from the profession.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0180par0437	Mr. Steel...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0182par0439	Mr. President, thank you. On October 9th, 10th, we examined Hatay's neighborhoods, Belen, Alexanderun, and Arzaz. On the orders of Mr. Burak Akshener, Mr. Burhanettin Kocamaz and our delegation of Mr. Şişik Güçük, our mayor of the city, met with our people. From here, I wish the nation and the people of Hatay well, I curse the perpetrators. The perpetrators must be punished by being caught.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0180par0441	Mr. Kaboglu...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0183par0443	Thank you, Mr. President. During the reading on June 4th, the main dissolution was the concept of a final verdict in Article 84 of Article 2. We believe it was not a final verdict, and it was confirmed by the Constitutional Court that there was no final verdict. Although the decision of the severe criminal court is wrong, the severe criminal court does not question the Constitutional Court's rights violation decision, simply says you cannot guide me. Well, it's wrong, but basically, the criminal court proves there's no definitive verdict. In this regard, the Constitutional Court's decision must be brought before the Supreme Assembly. In fact, according to the Constitutional Court's 2018 verdicts, all courts must comply with the Constitutional Court's decisions according to the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court and the European Court's decisions. There's no doubt about it, but the bottom line is, before it's finalized...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0184par0447	Mr. Gündüz...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0185par0449	Thank you, Mr. President. Despite all obstacles, hardship and conflict between institutions in the journey of rights, law, justice, we will never give up fighting for the justice of the people and the righteous under the leadership of our President, Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu. The local court, which does not comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, must return from error as soon as possible, otherwise they will go back to history as those who started legal chaos and will do irreparable damage. At the same time as the president of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's statement, the local court's ruling has made their consciences bitter. We will never allow anyone to harm the rule of law. Enis Berberoglu, elected by the people's votes, should return to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey immediately.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0186par0452	Under Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration. I'll read it and process it and put it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/2307) I demand that my original Law Proposal be brought directly to the agenda under Article 37 of the Civil Code. Hatay MP Serkan Topal as the bidder. Here you go, Mr. Clumsy. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0187par0465	Thank you. Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I pay my respects to all of you. First of all, I'd like to say that you all know that in Germany, the miller opposed the Potsdam Sanssouci Palace, the King of Prussia, Frederick. We all know why you're against it, and I want to remind him here because there are judges in Berlin. Just by the Constitutional Court's decision, we have judges in Ankara. We can all see that some Istanbul judges have ignored the Constitutional Court's decision and are trying to undermine the law, dear friends. In fact, it's the legal system that makes the state a Democrat, but the judges who try to murder the legal system will have to answer sooner or later. Therefore, we must return from this error immediately and wish that Mr. Enis Berberoglu -- as our dear congressman friend has just said -- is in Parliament, to be in Parliament as soon as possible. Dear friends, I will speak at the end of my speech on the electricity distribution market because there has been a fire in Hatay, which we all know very well, closely followed. Once again, I wish all the people of Hatay well. See, every time evil forces make an attack on Turkey, they start with Hatay. Well, why? Because Hatay is Turkey's last circle of peace and quiet. They know that the way to make Turkey sick is to make Hatay the flu. They know that the way to lead Turkey into chaos is to cause chaos in Hatay. Look, we saw the first bomb of the Syrian war in Hatay Reyhanlı. Hatay was the head of our first refugee raids. Hatay was in operation Afrin again. During the battle of Idlib, the first provocative events of Operation Olive Dal were again at Hatay. It's Hatay who closed the trade gates again. As if these were not enough, the people of Hatay answered in the last month by hanging their glorious flag on their homes, on their homes, on their streets, and on their streets. Because Hatay fought for fifteen years to join the motherland, and at the end of that struggle, he took his place in Misakimilli. Hatay is a town of Hatay, a people Hatay, who, under any circumstances, has taken any risk for the state and country, and is always honored to carry the pride and consciousness of being Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Dear friends, forests are our green homeland. Once again, green is our homeland. Once again, I condemn the understanding that burns the forest. The lives that burn there -- I'm talking about animals -- are the value of this country. Every leaf of those trees has the scent of our martyrs, the blood of our martyrs on every handful of land. Mr. Suzan Şahin was there that night, of course, and our fellow deputies were there, and our other deputies were there, and our governor was there, and we thank everyone. To all our citizens, you can't...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0188par0471	Mr. Sagittarius was there.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0187par0472	Of course, Mr. Yayman was there, and we saw it, but I want to put it this way, Mr. Sapeman: There was a promise made to establish the district manager, what happened to that promise? We had to establish the forest district directorate as soon as possible, so I'd like to ask you what happened here, by the way. Of course, I've expressed Hatay's problems over and over and over again on the stand, and I want to say, yes, there are events going on there, where our citizens are victims, but there's a government there that doesn't see the victims of our citizens, a president who doesn't see it, and I want to express it here. I'd like to address the President here: Hatay is carrying the burden of our country...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0189par0475	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Clumsy.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0187par0476	...but the government doesn't see it. Come, give the error a special allowance. One of the two young people is unemployed.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0190par0477	Also mention the help from Hatay.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0187par0478	Let's take increased employment measures. Exports have stopped, truck fleets have been left to rot, the farmer's goods have remained in the field; local governments serve around 500,000 asylum seekers, 500,000 Syrians. Hatay was seriously providing labor to Middle Eastern countries, but all of this really stopped. Yeah, sometimes there's work in infrastructure, and we appreciate them, and we thank them from here. But you know very well that Hatay is currently unemployed and many of our citizens are unemployed, so let's figure it out here. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Dear friends, we have friends who talk about it. Yes, come out and say, "Let us solve all Hatay's problems together, hand in hand, 11 MPs together, and solve Hatay's problems together." We're in. We already know how to thank him when the day comes, and we thank him. Hatay's problems...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0191par0483	Mr. Topal, you will also meet with your fellow lawmakers, please give a final greeting.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0187par0484	Thank you. Yes, and I'd also like to say, dear friends of mine, about my proposal for a change in the Power Market Law. Look, when our citizens don't pay the bill for three or four or five days, when they don't pay the electric bill, we all know very well that the power goes out, how many percent goes up, and then it's an off-line sentence. What about my friends, and why is it that when the power goes out in Hatay, there's no sanction for the distribution company? Come, with this law, let's end this injustice. Because it's really unfair, so the distribution company cuts the power when it wants to, no sanctions, but when the citizen doesn't pay the bill, the power goes out, and then the power goes off. After that, our farmers get the money to take out the transformer and the distribution company. Dear friends, so let's eliminate this injustice and bring justice to justice. Let's serve Hatay together as all lawmakers. I thank you all very much, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0192par0488	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0193par0489	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0192par0490	Mr. Fendoglu...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0194par0493	Thank you, Mr. President. The Covid-19 virus is a major challenge across the country, especially our health workers. I'd like to thank our medical staff for their efforts on this occasion. Some of our municipal cemetery officials, who risked their own lives at some point, were caught and survived, while some of them are now quarantined with their families. Our citizens, who risk their lives and do their burial duties, have an additional allowance in their rights to the essence of the cemetery. It is important for them to take advantage of it once in a while. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0195par0496	Mr. Aycan...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0196par0498	Mr. President, the violence against medical personnel continues. In fact, we've talked about it in Congress, we've edited it twice, but unfortunately, the violence against health personnel continues. Today it's a violent act, and I condemn the violent ones. We should all be able to help the medical staff who are struggling with such a sacrifice during this period. Violence greatly reduces their motivation and demoralises them. On the contrary, we need to support the 112 personnel, the filament crews, and the medical staff who work at the hospital, and we need to reduce their loads. We need to motivate them more and more to ensure that health care can run uninterrupted during this extraordinary period. Violence reduces the continuity of hospital health care.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0195par0500	Mr. Cakirözer...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0197par0502	Thank you, Mr. President. The right and immunity of Enis Berberoglu, who was elected to our Grand Assembly in the 27th term by the will of millions of Istanbulers, was condemned by an unlawful decree of the Parliamentary Presidency. The Constitutional Court has registered Berberoğlu's rights violation in its decision to register this grave unlawfulness. In this case, Istanbul is 14. The High Criminal Court's attitude that does not recognise this decision is a coup to the state of law, meaning that it does not recognise constitutional order. With this unacceptable attitude, the court is taking a decision, not a legal one, but an arbitrary one, a constitutional offense. We'll all need the rule of law and justice someday. Enis Berberoglu, chosen by the will of millions, must return to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey immediately.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit05spe0195par0504	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0195par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of Turkey's 4th Union of the Grand National Assembly. Members of parliament, under the decision taken, we are moving to the part of the agenda of the Court's Proposals and Other Affairs from the Commissions. We will begin negotiations with Antalya MP İbrahim Aydın and Ağrı MP Ekrem Çelebi and 17 MPs on the Public Financial Management and Control Law and the Plan and Budget Commission Report on Changes in Some Laws. Commission? He's in position.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0198par0008	Mr. President, I have a brief request at this stage.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0195par0009	After I finish this part, I promise you. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 228 rows. Members of parliament, this proposal will be considered as the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the proposal will be discussed in sections after all negotiations have been completed and passed on to the articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0199par0015	Mr. President, from your presentation speech and from calling the Commission in place of the Commission, it is clear that we will begin negotiations with Public Financial Management and Control Act 228, which has been placed in the 1st place at the proposal of the Justice and Development Party. In both our votes and public statements in the commission process, we have a claim that this law proposal is clearly contrary to the Constitution. The budgets are classified institutionally, functionally, economically and financially, and our budget comes this way every year and is negotiated in parliament.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0195par0018	Please come in.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0199par0019	As we all know, the 2021 budget has to come to Parliament seventy-five days before January 1st, and that's on Saturday, and the law proposal that we're talking about right now puts our budget from a performance-based budget into a performance-based program budget. And it's done because of the budgetary rights of Parliament, if there is Parliament, because of budgetary rights, but in five days, we have the next budget -- and we have the deadlines -- prepared by the presidency's strategy and budget president, and by the vice president's vice president -- to predict that today's law proposal will be legalized. There's an imposition to the House, a judgment on the House, and a decision made by the House.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0200par0021	Mr. Free, that's what your speaker says.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0195par0022	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0199par0023	This is a serious imposition against every member of parliament and every political party that constitutes the Assembly, ignoring the House. We have a claim against the Constitution at this point. We demand that this bill, which violates the Constitution, be returned to the Commission before the negotiations, Mr. President. If that is not possible, if you do not do so, we would like to open a formal discussion on the matter on the charge of violation of the Constitution.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0195par0026	I'm starting a formal debate.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0201par0027	In the end...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0195par0028	Lehte...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0202par0029	Against...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0195par0030	Against...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0203par0031	Against...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0204par0032	Lehte...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0205par0033	Against...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0206par0034	Mr. Suzan Şahin is against you.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0205par0035	According to the reports, I'm in third place, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0206par0036	Mr. Abdullah is in favor of the 2nd.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0205par0037	That's what we said, Mr. President. Look at the transcripts. Before Mr. Abdullah, I told you, Mr. President, the transcripts are essential. Look at the records. Who asked you first?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0206par0038	Mr. Tanal, I've noticed that the friends have raised their hands, and we're late with your name.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0205par0039	Mr. President, the Civil Charter says here that according to the order of the word. From the order of the word, the transcripts are fundamental.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0206par0040	Right. Now, Mr. Tanal, I've been paying attention to them, and I know very well about that, but I've seen what the friends want in favor, and I've heard you scream, I've heard it. There's nothing wrong with ranking.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0205par0041	Sir, Mr. President, there's no word here, no writing; the transcripts are fundamental.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0206par0042	Mr. Tanal, there's no problem with the ranking. Now, I give the first in favor to Mr. Ramadan Can. Here you go, Mr. Can. Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0207par0046	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, first of all, I'd like to declare that I'm in favor of your attitude. On the other hand, our group proposal was accepted today. According to the Civil Charter 19, the Council of Counsellors was not unanimous, and this is where we presented our group proposal. In our group proposal, we proposed that this Law Proposal on Public Finance 228 rows be brought to the agenda, and the Turkish Assembly of the Great National Assembly, lawmakers, agreed to take this proposal on the agenda. So, right now, the red bulletin is here, and it's on the agenda. Our Law Proposal 228 is now under article 1 of the agenda. Thus, if the Constitution was to be contested, the group would have to object to our proposal. That's one. Two: On the other hand, there is a review of the Constitution's compliance with the proposals in the commissions according to the Civil Charter 38. Whether or not the Constitution is appropriate can be expressed in the commissions. Commissioner, members of the Commission will decide that. If the Constitution of the Constitution is to be contested, 84 of the Constitution shall be voted before other proposals. The motions to oppose the Constitutional Assembly of Turkey may be issued in violation of the Constitution during the meeting of a law proposal in the General Assembly. The Council of Turkish National Assembly shall first consider the motion to reject a specific clause of the proposal on the grounds that it is contrary to the Constitution. I'd like to come to this: one, the draft of the law; two, the Commission on the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; three, the General Assembly of the Grand Assembly of Turkey. It'll be legalized through these phases. Here's the review of the Constitutional objection. Here we say that this proposal is in accordance with the Constitution. You say that it is contrary to the Constitution. The final decision will be made in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. The unsatisfactory party can take it to the Supreme Court. Why is there a Supreme Court? There are laws for the Constitution. Therefore, of course, no one can make such a suggestion, but the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has the authority to make law against the Constitution. Why? Because it's the Supreme Court, not on purpose. As a result, the Constitutional Court will determine whether the law is in accordance with the Constitution. Therefore, since our group proposal has been accepted, it has come to the top of the agenda. So, it's not right to argue procedure here, I declare that I'm in favor of your attitude, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0208par0051	The first word against him is Mr. Mahmut Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0209par0054	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all with respect. The current law states that the President should be appointed a co-reporter. There's no mention of the duties and powers of Mr. Ramadan Can. First, a clear and clear writing of the duties and powers of the rapporteur is the command order of the second joke of Article 128 of our Constitution. The second joke of Article 128 of our Constitution states that the authorities and other public officials' qualifications, appointments, rights and obligations, monthly and other responsibilities are regulated by law. There is no mandate or mandate for the reporting of the presidency that is present here. The lack of the definition of duty and authority in the law is a violation of the Constitution in itself, dear friends. Now, as the debate was being held, our Precious Pain MP said: "Sir, there were also the rapporteurs in this Constitutional Court. Look, when we look at the provisions of the Constitutional Court's Law, in the 10th article of the 25th Amendment here, they seek a five-year sentence, such as their appointment, their monthly allowances, pension rights, record files and so on. It says what faculty he works at, what workplaces he works at. So, for example, look at Article 24 of the Constitutional Court on Constitutional Reporting and Judiciary Laws. I'll give you a copy. If you don't know how to do it, then stick the law on the Constitutional Court's Foundation and Judiciary Code to whatever the qualifications and qualifications, duties and powers are in Article 24 of the Law. Conclusion: This is against the Constitution in this sense, one. And second of all, what is this thing called justice? The late justice is injustice. This time you're sending it to separate ministries regarding the State of Emergency Commission. Dear friends, do not interfere with the citizen's access to justice. As soon as your citizen... has to go 155 when there's a fire.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0210par0060	110.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0209par0061	...as if the ambulance had to go when the person was ill, 112, just as the fire broke out, as the ambulance went as fast as it was sick, as the fire went fast, if there was an injustice, we had to eliminate that injustice at that speed. What is the 129th article of our existing Constitution? Without the defense of public officials, there is no disciplinary action, he says. State Officers' Act No. 657 states that disciplinary action cannot be imposed without defence. What have you done?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0211par0063	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0209par0064	I'm finishing it, Mr. President. I'm tidying it up. I'm sorry. What are you guys doing? You do not apply these existing laws, the Constitution. You're delaying justice by making a constant cloak. For him, the late justice is injustice. I beg of you, this law, which actually exists, if this constitution were to be enforced, all injustices related to the State of Emergency would be over. But what are you doing? Now, I'm going to say this, if I may say so, to delay the course of justice, but it doesn't suit Parliament. So don't stop the citizens from getting justice with these foot games here, I beg of you. With this existing Constitution, the Law of State Officers No. 657 has already eliminated this injustice. Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0212par0068	The second word in Polish is İstanbul MP Abdullah Güler. Here you go, Mr. Guler.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0213par0071	Dear President, I have made a pledge in favour of your president's decision to discuss the current procedure. I salute the General Assembly. Of course, when we look at the issues mentioned earlier, the 38th article of our Civil Code, Article 52, and Article 84 will have to be considered as a whole. So, we're seeing the report of our Plan and Budget Commission, which was presented to our Parliamentary Chairman, which was also presented to us in our Plan and Budget Commission, in accordance with Article 38 of our Interior Charter, which was assessed in violation of the Constitution, and then, as a result of the Commission talks, we're meeting here at the General Assembly, and again, we've been accepted by the General Assembly, which we've just submitted to the General Assembly -- as our AK PARTI -- in which we've been considering the issues on the agenda, and in which we've also had the necessary talks with our work days. Of course, when we consider this process as a whole, the motions to reject a specific clause of a proposal are voted before other proposals, in the scope of Article 84 of our Civil Code, when a law proposal is discussed in the General Assembly. And when we consider these issues as a whole, we present our opinions in favor of what is being proposed, what is being said is not very acceptable, and in these matters, in accordance with the decision made by your presidency. We salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0214par0076	The second word against İstanbul MP İbrahim Özden Kaboğlu.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0215par0078	Mr. President, the Court, the valued members, at the time of the talks on this proposal, in the Commission, particularly our party, our group and his spokesman Mr. Bulent Kuşoglu has uncovered objections, suggested, and we have suggested that this is contrary to the Constitution in two ways. First of all, there are five different Constitutional Court rulings in this proposal, and according to the Constitutional Court's decision, it was suggested that the regulation, which was to be made according to the Constitutional Court's rulings, was the work of the Constitutional Commission, which was a bag of law, which was essentially much more weighted by other issues. But we have asked for a separate agenda to open the Constitutional Charter on this issue by declaring that the regulation in accordance with the title of the law is related to the budget system, that the budget will be brought to Parliament next week, and that the amendment of the law, which is contrary to the Constitution, which is a matter of state property, at the same time, a few days away, should be questioned, according to Article 38. However, the agenda did not open an argument, and the material was transferred. During the discussion of the articles -- particularly the base stations, the presidential rapporteurs -- we suggested that there were violations of the Constitution in terms of the files in front of the State of Emergency Commission. But the most important issue in this framework was that there was no way that the budgetary system could be changed two days before budget talks, and we couldn't discuss it. Although our group suggested it, although other opposition parties suggested it, we couldn't discuss it by making an agenda of Article 38 of the Civil Code. With that respect, the allegations of violation of the Constitution have not been taken into account in either the framework or the context of relevant articles in the Commission. In this regard, the General Assembly is essentially withdrawing this offer, considering claims of violation of the Constitution and...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0214par0081	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0215par0082	In this proposal, our claims of unconstitutional conduct have been found serious, which has not been negotiated. In that regard, the offer must be withdrawn. In fact, it is not only clear that it is already unconstitutional because of the bag of legislation, but it is also necessary to renegotiate because it is contrary to the basis of budgetary rights and the budget arrangement envisioned in the Constitutional Court, and because it is contrary to the essence of the Constitutional Court's budget arrangement, it must be renegotiated and renegotiated by sending it to relevant commissions. I'll buy it. Yours truly.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0214par0085	Yes, thank you. There is no change in my opinion or attitude as a result of the formal debate. We're starting negotiations on the law proposal. On behalf of the Good PARTY Group, Mr. Erhan, the MP of Samsun, who wants to speak on the whole proposal. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0216par0094	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn pledge from the PARTI Group to express our views on the entire Law Proposal on the Amendment to Public Financial Management and Control Law 228 rows and some Laws, and I salute you all. First of all, October 13th, the 97th year of Ankara's capitalization, I remember Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, his precious comrades and all the heroes of the national struggle with mercy and gratitude. Yeah, we're up against another bag of law. It won't last 20 minutes here if we're trying to explain how bad the bag law is. As many people already know, so have we. That's why I'm not gonna go there. Now, what does this law offer bring? The first five articles are related to changes in the Public Financial Management and Control Law, Article 5018. I'm going to go through that part now that I'm going into some of their details. In Article 6 of this article, the foundation that wants to start a medical school requires the universities to build a hospital capable of 200 beds. Other conditions are being brought in, other obligations are being brought in. And we, as a group of good parties, take it in a positive way, but it doesn't say anything about medical schools that haven't been opened in the past, which we're considering as a flaw. Now, the 7th and 8th amendments of the law proposal form a career group in the presidency's Presidency of Executive Affairs ▪ The President's Reportership is called the 7th and 8th Amendment. First of all, before we went into this party presidential system, you know, there was the Prime Minister's office, with this system change, all the experts in the Prime Minister's office were randomly distributed to institutions, where institutional memory was destroyed. And now we're coming to say, let's put together a career career group that will do career jobs in the presidency. We asked in the commission, they couldn't give a complete number, but they say that only one fifth of the prime minister's experts work in the presidency today, others have been randomly distributed to other institutions. Of course, for one thing, it was wrong. Now, there is a need, of course, for a career professional group to be formed here may not be wrong, but in doing so, you have to be very careful. First of all, the clause of the law proposal is a very broad authority. The matter of duty and authority needs to be determined here. Other than that, it's unlikely that a number-related limit would be on the law proposal, but there's no mention of the law offer, but we can't understand its spirit, there's a lot of risk here. And there's normal, standard work to be done by officers, there's work to be done by career professionals, and I'd like to say that we don't see that clarity here. In early 2012, KHK No. 666 was able to purge your expertise with this AK PARTY government, and I'll tell you that, because I'm saying this as someone who's worked for years as an expert in an institution with the oldest tradition of expertise. Expert assistants, who were received at one time, with the number of 300, 500, lived in this country. So they weren't straight officers, they weren't experts, and we wasted these kids before anything happened. The same shouldn't be done here. If that institutional memory in the prime minister had been moved here, maybe we'd be less likely to face that risk, but right now I have to say that there is a serious risk. Now, old habits... We're changing one thing, but since we have a habit of not changing their habits, we have the same little thing here. Sir, they say that the presidents who don't need his services are sent to other institutions. Why are you doing this? They say it was in the past. Either there was in the past, but there was no career like that in the past. You can't send career buddies to other institutions. You have to give these people a guarantee. I mean, they have to be able to stand up straight when the time comes. I'm sending you to the deed and to the Kadastro, and when you say, "No one can stand up there." So what's done is wrong. We expressed that error there, but of course, none of that was taken into account. Now, I see this risk, and I want to express it. The presidency is growing uncontrollably. So this is growing in all aspects as staff, as a building, sir, as arrangements. And that's where I want to make that mistake. Finally, with KHK 666, all experts were paid equally in a way that was not quite right. Now, since we've done that, today we're predicting a much higher salary in the presidency's reporting capacity, which I'm going to have to ask you. So I'd like to express these flaws, which we call "the need" as a favour to be neglected as a matter of necessity. The 9th and 10th articles contain regulations concerning these GSM operators. Here we find it wrong to remove the sentences of GSM operators, and we don't support this clause. Also, I regret to inform you that regulatory and auditory institutions, particularly the Information Technologies and Communications Agency, today have not acted in a proper and appropriate way, in accordance with the institutional objectives of the establishment, and in accordance with that mission. We see it a lot in the BDK, we see it in the Energy Market Editing Agency, we see it in Information Technologies and Communications Agency, we need to fix it. The 12th article is related to the Law on Public Finance and the Editing of Debt Management. I'm just passing by now because I'm going to explain it in a little bit more detail. The 13th article is partially returned from a previous error. You know, there was an amendment to the Metropolitan City Law under a law issued in 2012, where the village's corporate personality was removed. In addition to the removal of the village's corporate personality, life in the village was made expensive; here, the village was taxed on real estate, the water was put in, the building was built on construction fees -- I'm sorry, but even if you built a barn, you had to get a license there, and it was an expense. That's been said a lot in the past. But more importantly, the villages were taken away. So something else was done that was extremely harmful to livestock. Now, with this arrangement, the property tax exemption is being granted, the building is being paid for construction fees, and there will be a reduction in drinking and using water prices. We welcome them, we support them, but we find them inadequate. We have two demands: One, return the village's corporate personalities. A new name has been found in this village called the rural neighborhood. There's no such thing, so there's no such thing in our administration, so give it up. The village shall be restored, the village shall live like a village, and the village shall be returned to our farmers and peasants. Now, my dear friends, we said that this bill -- I'm going back to the beginning a little bit -- changes the 1st and 5th amendments to Law 5018. Here's what we're trying to do: we're going to go into the program budget system. The tenth Development Plan -- as a former technician who ran his technical coordination -- was referred to as a need in his mid-term programmes in the 11th Development Plan, yes. What was the need? On the one hand, the government predicts a policy set, for example, that I will increase efficiency in the economy. But on the other hand, the budget is being budgeted, because the relationship between this policy set and the budget is disconnected, and because it does not talk to each other, there is a lack of monetaryization in matters that the government cares so much about. And we couldn't really see if it was done. It's a need, a change had to be made. We have a serious objection here to the way this change is being made, and I want to express it. Now, what's being done here is that fiction does not predict transition to the programme budget system, as it is alleged, but it is being brought here to disrupt the current code structure of the budget. Now, of course, before we get here, we need to look at a very short history of the budget system. In 1973, the program we talked about in Turkey was actually transferred to the budget system, but it was never... of course it was Turkey's disease, and there was more in the past, and today we're changing things called the disease, the system, but we're not changing our habits. The programme budget system was never actually implemented in Turkey in 31 years until 2004 when it was removed. Then the analytical budget system was transferred, and today we will go back to the programme budget system. We see zeal as positive, but the arrangement here is certainly not a program budget system. And that's basically where we object. There's an analytical budget system in the international standard. The analytical budget system isn't really a system. I mean, it's very technical, but I don't want to waste my time here, so I'm going to focus on finance policy. So, I won't go into too much detail, but we've expressed them in detail in our opposition. But still, the removal of the analytical budget system, especially functional classification, is in the system that will create a very serious weakness. For once, it's an international standard of functional classification in accordance with GFS rules. When you remove this, there'll be no connection to the past, and even if it's not in the budget system that we can see today, there'll be a part of us that we can see today that we can't watch anymore. So we're looking at the removal of the functional classification as extremely wrong. So we think it's fundamentally wrong that the program budget system should be viewed as something that's going to apply functional classification, and that's going to have to be returned from the wrong. Of course, if this arrangement is accepted, there was 16 years of labor, something that had been brought to a certain point, and it's going to be wasted, I have to tell you that. All funds will be disbanded senselessly, so I will distribute all budgetary funds to all programs, he says. But that's not what we mean by the program budget system. So we technicians -- as someone who worked in this business from the beginning of 2000 -- we've never been able to do that. So let's have a small number of programs here, and let's allocate these funds, not lose focus. So let's say there were 25 primary transformation programs set up in the Tenth Development Plan, not 25 but maybe 30, 50, 60, but not that, how much money is actually being given here, they need to be seen. Otherwise, put some of all the staff, all the goods and services that we have, even all the papers that we use on that program, and put some of it into this program. An understanding will be made here, and there will be a mistake, like distribution of all the funds to the programs. To the institutions that will bring this extraordinary workload, institutions will never be able to do it properly. Think about this Parliament study, you have to make up a program here, you're going to make up at least two or three programs for Congress, and you're going to write some of all the expenses that we've made -- even the water that's being used -- into that program, some of it into this program. What are we doing? Nothing. But it's not what's wanted, it's what needs to be turned around. So far we haven't been able to rotate it in the Plan and Budget Commission. I hope the General Assembly succeeds. There's a lot to say here, but I'd like to get past that, so it's not too much of a waste of time. Well, at least if you're doing something like that, you'll get a pilot app. There's not even a pilot and there's ten days left -- it's already been expressed, there's not even ten -- a few days left -- when the law comes out, you're going to change a system, and in a few days, we're going to tell the institutions to take it and do business according to this system. Oh, if that's how it's done, some calls have been made, then that's contempt for Congress. It is the greatest disrespect to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to run all institutions as if this law would be passed without law in parliament. He has to condemn it from here, no matter who it is. Well, you're doing something like that, it's gonna take a trace. Sir, this needs to be monitored by a central unit, it needs to be evaluated, it needs to be deployed. It wasn't done either. If you're going to make a post within the presidency -- so it shouldn't be done -- then such a monitoring and evaluation unit needs to be created. It's about the medium-term schedule very briefly here... of course, the middle-term program now calls it Mr. Finance Minister. You said that in the first year of 2018, you said "new" again in 2019, and you said "new" in 2020. So when you say new, it's not new. With 18 years of old power, it's not possible to understand how so many new jobs can be done. So once in a while, if there's going to be a good job, the mid-term schedule... look, it was announced on September 29th, the mid-term program. Do you know how to define the concept of medium-term programming? As the document that started the budget process. How will a medium-term programme that you published on September 29th begin the budget process? In modern countries, budget processes begin in March, in April, friends. Our original medium-term programme, the original 5018, envisioned starting in May. This has been a mistake since the past -- of course during the AK PARTY administrations -- but it's not about today, let's not be unfair there, it's been wrong for a decade. We objected a lot then. This is not an economic program. This is a program that starts the budget process. We need to do this program earlier so we can create the expected benefit. There's also a distinction between artificially mid-term programming and mid-term financial plan. In the past, it was something that led to my separation from the Ministry of Planning and Finance. So now that this artificial distinction has to be resolved, this combination has to be done. Dear friends, so that's our view of this substance. Now, the 12th article envisions a change in the Law on Public Finance No. 4749 and the Order of Debt Management to increase funding for the central management budget deficit. The current state of the law is this: ▪ There is only a clear amount of debt that is expected in the budget. That gives the minister a five percent authority. You know, it could be an obvious little deviation, it could borrow over five percent clearly. It used to be the Council of Ministers, and now it's giving the president another five percent. That's not enough, now, Mr. Finance Minister... although lawmakers have proposed, we know it's from the Treasury Department. That's not enough, let's double it. They say. So the open $139 billion -- normally you have to have as much finance as this -- is the law predicting that it should go up to 153 billion -- I'm not telling the sides of it -- and now, with this bill presented to us, don't borrow up to 306 billion -- look, it's got a very high profit. So the debt is 306 billion on the net of the debt payment... So the first question immediately is, why are you taking 306 powers when you say there's going to be 239 in the middle-term program, or rather the new New Economic Programme? Aren't you friendly there? A question arises immediately as to whether there will be a debt by the time it reaches 239. This is being done illegally right now. Right now, the debt limits have been exceeded. Of course, if it's illegal, at least it's a necessity to cover it up. Dear friends, of course, if we're talking about budget financing, funding for the budget deficit, then we need to analyze the New Economy Programme in particular in terms of public finance. The 2020 projections of this program are not realistic at all. Data released by the Turkish Statistical Agency, the Ministry of Commerce and other institutions revealed that the New Economy Programme was completely trash in two weeks before the ink dried up. How do you say it? One: set it up once. The average dollar dry estimate for three months, October, November, December, is 7.50, as this program is announced at the end of September. The dollar's dry now 7.92. Do you think that's realistic? What's worse, this program's estimate for 2021 is 7.68. Right now we're saying 7,92, which means it's going to go down a year from now. 2022, 7,88. We are now above 2022. 8,02 in 2023. We're only a few days away from catching this one, so in a few days we'll all be applauding the Treasury and Finance Minister. You've achieved your 2023 target today. Of course, Mr. Secretary says we're not looking at lots. It's obvious he's not looking at a lot. I mean, if they looked at the lot, they wouldn't have put these courtship projections here. It's a non-serious program, a guess, an estimate. You're looking at TIFE, nine months of TUFE 8.3. A new TÜFE arrived, just a day later. Sir, the New Economic Programme (YEP) will be called TÜFE 10.5 at the end of the year. Could it be? You see, in the last three months of last year -- now we have three months -- what do we have? It's 3.2, but it's only foreseen for the remaining three months of this year. You're looking for any reason why inflation should be under the last year, no reason. On the contrary, there is a courtship shock that will reflect inflation in the coming months. Plus, here's an electrical increase that we did the day before, which we did a few days ago, which doesn't reflect inflation. Given the fact that other increases are coming along, this inflation target is in no way realistic. You're looking at it from an external trade deficit. The YEP was announced on 29 September, and on 2 October -- three days later -- the Ministry of Trade announced foreign trade data. YEP says that for the year 2020... we can't get to 2022, so 2020, just in the next few days. Since it is far from serious... in 2020, Turkey's foreign trade deficit will be $38.1 billion. The YEP was announced at 29, and in 29, it was said so. On October 2nd, the Ministry of Trade issued a statement saying: "The nine-month foreign trade deficit in Turkey is 37.9 billion TL. There is only $0.2 billion left to catch the end of the year. So the New Economy Programme says that in the last three months, Turkey is not going to give any external trade deficits, it's going to add up to zero. Now you have to ask, can this happen? Sure, if the country has a very serious crisis. I'm asking: Is the Treasury and Finance Minister predicting a serious crisis in the country, and that's how the numbers were set? It shouldn't have been such a non-serious number. Cari's got the same thing out in the open, guys. Cari was declared open a few days later. Yesterday, $4.6 billion was open -- that's even worse -- and there's a $26.5 billion deficit in January-agustostos. What is said in the new Economy Programme? It hasn't been two weeks. It's called $24.4 billion. So now the current current current current current current current year's current current target in the New Economy Programme is 2.1 billion dollars. Can this hold? He can hold it, but he'll hold anything? If there's a serious crisis in Turkey, yes, the current can give you a lot because you can't import; you don't have dollars. When you say exports can be partially done, you can give one more time, but that's not an economic scenario. I can't really find words to express this insensitivity. So this program, before the ink dries... unfortunately, we're upset, of course, is a document of Turkey. And as a man who's been the technical coordinator of this document for years, it's a shame that this document is getting this bad. Mr. President, do I have an addendum? He thinks I'm gonna start with other things.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0217par0125	Now that we've moved on, we've moved on.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0216par0126	Well, then let me get one thing straight, so we can talk about the others later, so let's just put it this way. The New Economy Programme is a document of people's poverty. You'll say, "How?" In 2020, according to the non-existent dollar budget -- because if the dollar is dry, the income per person will fall -- Mr. Secretary says that at the end of the year, there will be 8.381 dollars per person per person per person in Turkey. Let's look back at this figure: under $9,735 that we caught in 2007, that number is a 2006-level figure. 2020, 2006, going back 14 years, Turkey. So there's a Turkey that goes back 14 years, and we're saying that this program is a picture of Turkey becoming poorer. Now, there are serious internal discrepancies to this program. I won't be able to get into the details of this, but between growth and current, between growth and inflation, I've just expressed some of it, when you actually look at the technicality, you're screaming about how to put a program like this in front of the nation. Of course, it's possible to understand that because this program is now... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If I could have another minute, Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0218par0131	Then we salute you, Master.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0216par0132	Okay, I'll finish.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0218par0133	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0216par0134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. How can it be like that? Look, I've been saying that in the past -- we've been off the bench for a while -- I'm a congressman who emphasizes the institutional issue, and that's what we've been saying as technicians. In Turkey, institutions are finished, there are no institutions left in Turkey, and that is the biggest risk facing Turkey. We can fix everything again, but it will take Turkey a very serious time to restore these institutions and institutional cultures. You know what's being done now? How's the mid-term program coming along? It's written by the Minister's advisors, and the Finance Ministry doesn't know about it. Of course, they can't do the computing part very much, so they're being sent to the President of Strategy and Budget for computation. If I'm lying here, let them warn us when the budget talks arrive, and we can tell you the details. I mean, they're separated. They don't have a text, so when they calculate it, they get an account from there, something from here. Then, obviously, those accounts are interfered with, and such discrepancies arise. So I pray to God that this law, after all, is good for our people and good for our country. I salute your entire delegation. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0219par0139	On behalf of the People's Movement Party Group, İstanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu has been asked to comment on the proposal. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0220par0142	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Movement on behalf of the entire Law Proposal 228. I salute the Veteran Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation. At the beginning of my speech, I celebrate the 97th anniversary of Ankara's becoming the capital, honoring and honoring all our national struggle heroes, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our republic. Because of the fire that was set in Hatay, I send our wishes to all our citizens whose house was burned down and the tree and the field burned down, and I curse their perpetrators. I believe that the wounds of the disaster will soon be wrapped up, the damage and the loss will be compensated, and the perpetrators will be found. In the words of our President, Mr. State Gardener, who are their children, who are essentially unknown, is the most urgent need for these bastards to be caught and burned as soon as possible, and to be taken into account for all the evil and foul deeds they've done. I also say that God help and protect the land of Azerbaijan, a friend and brother, in the struggle to liberate his native land, Karabagan. The invasions and attacks that Armenia has occupied for nearly thirty years, killing hundreds of children, women, civilians, and killing 1 million Azerbaijan Turks from their homeland are brutal, treacherous and hostile. The United Nations is a crime of humanity against decisions, international law, humanity, conscience, and all legal principles and fundamentals. I curse the Armenian tyranny and low attacks that sought to repeat the same atrocities and atrocities that he has done in the past today, to the Azerbaijan army, who were on their way to God's mercy and healing for our veterans, to God's glory. The home of Azerbaijan Turkia is essential, and we believe that it is near, hopefully, to meet the rightful owner of the rightful right of the Mountain Karabakh. Dear lawmakers, the law proposal we've discussed is basically organizing issues regarding transitioning into the performance-based programme budget system. However, regulations are being made regarding increasing the amount of money net use for 2020, the creation of rural neighborhoods on the city's municipal borders and some exemptions for them, the changing of the conditions for opening medical schools of the foundation universities, the violation of the Presidential Presidential Reportership in the Presidency's Presidency, and some laws that the Constitutional Court has cancelled. As is known, the 11th Development Plan states that the programme will be transferred to the budget system. The medium-term programme, published on September 29, 2020 in the Official Gazette, stressed that in 2021 the public service presentation and administrative structure would increase the efficiency of the programme budget system to meet its needs in a dynamic structure and ensure the efficient use of public resources. In the 2020 Presidential Annual Programme, the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal was stated to be prepared in accordance with the programme structure. As it will be remembered, from the beginning of the 2000s, budgets began to be prepared according to the analytical budget classification developed according to international standards. The effective, economic and efficient use of resources in our country along with the Law on Public Financial Management and Control 5018; the performance-based budget system adopted under the principles of fiscal transparency and accountability and began to be implemented in public administration under general administration from 2008, and important gains were achieved in our public financial management system. High Policy Documents, however, have been created as a requirement to establish adequate relations between the objectives and goals set out in the country, according to the analytical budget classification, and to include performance information in the budgetary processes. The programme was intended to move into the budget system and budget classification in line with public resources and the development of public services and the development of spending priorities, rather than with inputs, and the budget was intended to be prepared with a result-oriented approach, implementing, monitoring and reviewing, incorporating the performance information produced into budget processes to support the decision-making processes, and to integrate the budget with higher policy documents and policy documents. The budget is a budgeting system where expenditures are classified according to programme classification, the decision-makers are provided with the necessary information to improve the spending priority, and that information is systematically used in the process of resource allocation. It will help improve the system's spending priority, facilitate decisions on options, encourage administrations to increase the efficiency of services with the use of performance information in resource allocation decisions. In this way, the target-object relationship between the upper policy documents and the budget will be strengthened, and public spending will contribute to transparency and accountability, and financial discipline will be supported by improving the spending priority. Dear lawmakers, the first five articles of the law proposal include regulations in the Public Financial Management Law, in accordance with the performance-based programme budget. Subsequent 6 is an amendment to the opening of medical schools for the foundation universities. According to this, the right of the foundation universities to open a medical school is mandatory for them to own a hospital with a minimum of 200 beds of property, registration and operating rights. This will also contribute to improving the quality of medical education, while 35 existing medical schools of foundation universities will not be affected by this arrangement. The 7th and 8th Articles envision the necessity of presidential reporting and deputy reporting in the presidential presidency of Executive Affairs. It is also possible that some of the staff in public institutions can be appointed as the interim correspondents of the presidency as of September 30, 2020. Instead of hiring in the exceptional staff, the staff involved in this arrangement has been engaged in various trials and three years of growth, and career transparency and objective processes are strengthened by the system. Articles 9 and 10 are being organised on the application of building licenses in electronic communication infrastructure, and it is intended to comply with the Constitutional Court's decisions on building licenses in electronic communication infrastructure. At the same time, the development of communication infrastructure in a healthier way and the resolving of some problem areas in the verb. In addition, the collection of administrative fines for towers and poles is waived for the installation of electronic communications stations. The 11th article and debts used by municipalities to eliminate the devastating effects of the Marmara and Düzce earthquake are being abandoned. The arrangement basically envisions the release of $270m Turkish liras from the City of Sakarya. The law on the regulation of public financing and debt management, Article 12 of Article 4749, is added to a temporary clause, raising the limit of net debt for 2020. As it is known, the Minister and the President are still authorized to increase their debt limit by 5 per cent according to the 5th article of the law. The proposal sentences the implementation of a net amount of debt increased by the Minister and the President for 2020 due to an unexpected cost increase due to the epidemic, anti-terrorism, domestic and external developments. The 13th article is about the creation of rural areas or residential areas on the city's municipal borders and the recognition of a number of exemptions. According to this, it is possible for the town to be located within the boundaries of the city's municipal municipality, which had previously turned into a village and a municipality of the city, including the conditions of socioeconomics, distance to the city centre, accessibility to municipal services and the construction situation, to be determined by the decision of the town's municipal council and the proposal, as a rural or rural area of the neighborhood, which has been determined by the decision of the city's municipal council. In addition, various wages, tax and tuition exemptions and reductions are envisioned for those who live here. As the National Movement Party, we predict the implementation of agricultural-integration, an element of development policy, as well as agricultural cities and central villages programs and projects that will provide economic and social development. While the arrangement is one of the issues that we put on the proposal of the law, it is appropriate that villages and municipalities who have been transformed into neighborhoods be reduced to central villages, mainly by Law 6360. The main thing is to ensure and determine the accessibility of all the services offered by the state in accordance with the principle of integrity of governance, in the fastest and most quality and modern standards throughout our country. The 14th Article stipulates the opening of administrative application and judicial path towards administrative procedures for persons and institutions under the additional measures adopted under the provisions of the Constitutional Court. The issues related to the duration of the application and application of the subjects are being dominated, and the dispute over the determination of the administration will be resolved by the presidency, it is said. The 15th article allows for an extension from 11 October 2020 on the duration of activities that should be carried out in R&D and design centres and technology development areas. Mr. President, the economy of Turkey has been affected by this process, as has the world economy, which has suffered major injuries due to the outbreak of Covid-19. Even though the epidemic remains, effective measures have been taken by our government and our state to turn the wheels in the economy and facilitate the lives of our citizens, decisions have been carried out quickly. In this scope, all communities have been relieved and simultaneously taken decisive steps to turn the wheels in the economy, by implementing cash support, assistance, delays and so forth for our trade and industry, our farmers, our small-incomes, and our needy. Co-directional policy steps have been put into action to ensure that production and supply chain will not be interrupted, employment will be maintained, and the healthy functioning of the financial system will continue. Thus, the impact of the epidemic on the economy has been minimized, and economic activity has begun to recover rapidly since the third quarter of the year. Depending on the strength of the trend of recovery, expansionist policies for the period of the epidemic have been gradually abandoned, and the process of new stabilisation has begun. The Economic Trust Index has also been seen to rise, along with positive developments, including production and export growth and loss of employment. Of course, with measures to reduce the impact of the epidemic and promote production, jobs will increase, more jobs will be employed, conjunctural difficulties in the economy will be overcome, and the well-being of our citizens will increase. Without a doubt, these developments must be subject to analysis and evaluation by considering the negatives that affect the world economy and the Turkish economy. The difficult process of Turkey's multi-frontal struggle should not be ignored, as well as the economic and social cost of domestic and international developments and the fight against terrorism, which has increased its failure in recent years along with Covid-19. It should not be forgotten that Turkey has been subjected to economic siege along with the July 15th treacherous coup attempt and terrorist attacks. Under the leadership of global forces, Turkey's economy and politics have been asked to be directed through courtship and interest. However, with the measures taken in time, Turkey broke those accounts as a result of an effective epidemic struggle. In particular, some countries and international organisations with strong economies have also been debated about who is a strong country or how to measure development, given their poor performance in terms of the fight against Covid-19. In this process, Turkey has become one of the countries in the world that have come up with the importance of investments in human health care, health infrastructure, social security system, physical and human capacity, effective management style, propulsion and management ability, the vision of human-based civilization and its appropriate policies. Without a doubt, it will be a strong society and a country in the face of important problems that we can be stronger as a nation and as a state, and it will make it easier for us to overcome crises in solidarity. Dear lawmakers, as the National Movement Party, we predict increased social prosperity with an understanding of management that puts people at the center of economic policy, which monitors principles of equality, morality and justice. With the spirit of national unity and solidarity, Turkey will surely rise to the level of superpower in its region and the level of leader country at a global level, thanks to domestic and national resurrection in the economy. In this direction, the Cumhur Alliance, the architect of the future's strong and leading country Turkey, runs with confidence in its goals of 2023, 2053 and 2071. Turkey's strengthening and reaching such goals are undoubtedly dependent on the historical power of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and on the merit of the government's system of government. Turkey will be the main presidential government system that will carry it to the next century. We believe that with the legalisation of the law proposal that we meet and support, it will contribute to the development of our country, the growth of our nation's prosperity and peace. However, we see that some of our citizens' delayed demands must be answered in parallel with the recovery of the economy. The nationalist movement party is the voice of the oppressed, the hope of the victims. With these thoughts, I wish that the offer of the law would be good for our country and our nation. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I salute you all worthy members of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0221par0172	On behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP Hakkı Saruhan Oluç has asked for the entire proposal. Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0222par0175	Mr. President, Congressmans, today we're talking about the Public Financial Management and Control Act and the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. Unfortunately, in this proposal, another bag of legislation was chosen, and the proposals for unrelated amendments were discussed simultaneously. This also leads to the process of a Plan and Budget Commission, which reduces the quality of legislation, as in every bag of legislation. We've always said, once again, the concept of the bag law leads to a lack of discussion of the relevant laws, but on the other hand, it increases the possibility that the controversial laws will be lost among other laws and accepted with fewer opinions. We also point out once again that it is a huge mistake to maintain this method and understanding, as law prevents it from being predictable, understandable, and compromiseable. Some changes involved in this bag of legislation are extremely important. This proposal eliminates functional classification in budgetation. The functional classification, as is known, shows the type of public activities, allowing the monitoring of activities and activities through the time series and the opportunity for international comparisons to be achieved, will now be waived. Remember, in 2003, the performance-based budget system was introduced, and the performance-based budget system was being implemented in public administrations under general administration from 2008. The current performance-based budget system is structured according to the analytical budget classification. The European budget rating process is abandoned with the next item proposals, and the programme is requested to move to budget structure. Although the proposed basis suggests that budgets are more effective in terms of transparency and accountability, it is clear that the change is primarily problematic in terms of budgetary rights, transparency and accountability. Already accountability, financial transparency has been eliminated today, and transparency is only an ornament in the text of parties. With their policies, which have taken a stable attitude such as power, waste, corruption, looting, rant, lack of integrity, today has returned to the past and sought out ways out of the crisis. Furthermore, the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021, which should be submitted to parliament on 17 October 2020, was set up according to this clause proposal that was discussed by the Plan and Budget Commission on 6 October. It's a terrible situation, actually. Members of the Plan and Budget Commission have learned that the budget offer has already been drafted in accordance with the current legislation, days before the budget proposal for 2021 is discussed in the Commission. This is another irregularity against the law that the Justice and Development Party destroyed with a bag of legal systems, which is actually political rudeness. In summation, this law is faced with a proposal that has been passed again. There are a lot of troubling factors in the proposal, and I'm just going to make a brief point on two of them. In tomorrow's debate, our friends will consider these substances in more detail. The understanding of the budget and therefore the central management of inputs and outputs also leads to the decision-making of the presidential government system, which we are in today, on behalf of local governments, is a grave situation. A President of the Justice and Development Party, who is the President of Justice and Development Party, has a say in the budget of local governments and the Presidential Programme he has prepared, which is not democratic. Not all local governments have to comply with the program that a party president announced. In this sense, the system is certain to lead to major inequality, injustice, and abuse. In this case, antidemocratic and centrifugal understanding will improve, and it will continue to create significant problems. With an authoritarian centralist understanding, it renders the local democracy ineffective; it considers the local governments to be self-reliant, committed bodies with an absolute sense of power. This understanding has nothing to do with local democracy or democratisation of local governments. It is evident that the existing Law on Financial Management and Control is conducted in a way that does not meet the budget of the people; it is transparent, without accountability, without trust. The proposal further undermines the parliamentary legislature and the public's budget rights. The second thing I'd like to point out is that this offer has been taken a step to justify what we're saying with a clause added in the Plan Budget. The offer of a change that would double the debt of the treasure has caused a deja vu to occur and the budget rights to be clearly destroyed. In the first ten months of 2020, the Treasury issued 141 billion Turkish liras, which owed 241 billion Turkish liras. Even 87 billion Turkish liras have been exceeded, while the President and Treasury Minister have the authority to borrow 154 billion Turkish liras by increasing the debt limit by 5 per cent. With the change related, the government wants to borrow about 309 billion Turkish liras. However, it is not known on what conditions the repayment plans will take place. For example, the Treasury's final debt of $2.5 billion was at a five-year maturity and a 6.5 per cent interest rate. While developing countries today have the opportunity to find a loan at 1 per cent, the 6.5 per cent have created an almost loan-sharking position. In fact, even looking at this example, the interest burden and the understanding of paying off the debt are a clear indication that more debt and policy are going to go bankrupt. The budget deficit for 2021 central management budget, which has not yet been submitted to parliament by doubling its debt authority, is estimated to be more than 200 billion Turkish dollars. This states that security policies and anti-war policies carried out in domestic and foreign politics should be waived immediately from security and arms spending, the sergeant's order, the nepotism. Otherwise, the preferred policies will continue to borrow and clear numbers will continue to increase, and Turkey is now at risk of seeing an unpredictable bottom, with political preferences insisting on not leaving a plane set by the economy. The process leading the country to further debt and to a high budget deficit is no longer acceptable. The determination to continue these wrong programmes will lead to greater challenges, deepening the economic and social crisis, squandering the country's resources and paying financial and political costs for its people. The indicators in the economy are severe; we say it every day, and we'll keep saying it. Alarm bells are ringing everywhere. Look, the exchange rate is setting a new historical record every day. The Treasury and Finance Minister says, "What are you doing with dollars?" But he mocks the public. If the wages were bought in dollars, no one would have a problem. Before long, the same Minister of Commerce of the Cabinet says the price of baby foods has risen. That's the thing. The Kur is important, but the people of Turkey know it very well. The raw material of bread is imported with wheat dollars. The raw material of the dress is imported in cotton dollars. Boiling lentils, chickpeas, beans, imported dollars. Electronic devices, technology imported with dollars. Dollars burn down every bag, every house, in fact. Electricity is imported, natural gas imported, oil and products imported. I mean, the rise of the imagination means the cost of life. These facts are a fact that everyone has known since the 1950s, but unfortunately the Treasury and Finance Minister is not aware of them. It's a really big dream to think that visiting Qatar and Kuwait daily to find hot money to prevent the crisis in Turkey's economy from deepening daily. You won't be able to close this black hole with this administration and this understanding of governance. You actually used up $120 billion to suppress the dollar, vaporized it, some kind of thing. And you've wasted the resources of this country, but five days ago, he saw $7.94, and the euro reached the top once again with 9.34. So, these ups and downs actually show once again the wrongs of these economic policies. Meanwhile, the net profit of Turkey's Entity Fund, which includes 20 public companies, including public banks, is down 48 per cent from the previous year, and the Fund's total debt outside the financial sector has increased by 46 per cent last year. So you can't stop the dollar, you're ruining the asset fund. Inflation data is pathetic. In fact, we talk about it every day. TÜİK explains the consumer Price Index; hormonal, distorted data. However, there is talk of an increase of 11.75 per cent, but according to TÜİK, the onion says $1.98 per kilo, and the sauce says $10.31 per kilo. So we're asking: Where does the head of TİK make this trade? We all know that if he does, everyone will be running there because that's not the truth. Everyone, everyone who lives in Turkey, everyone who goes to the market -- and the seller knows, and those who sell those goods know that today the cost of real life is changing between 30 per cent and 40 per cent. If you ask those who live at home, if you ask those who try to fill out their net every day at the market, even if you ask the children, they'll explain it to you. Does it end with inflation and the cost of living? No, no. We're looking at unemployment setting a record on record. Something really interesting happened in Turkey. TÜİK released its data and said: "The unemployment rate fell at 13.4 per cent with a reduction of 0.5 points.* But the same TÜK said:.... the number of people who were employed by 1 million 254,000 people in the same period of the previous year has been reduced by 2.9 points. According to the TÜİK News statement, both employment and unemployment have been reduced for the first time in the history of the world. It's not unemployment, it's employment. There's unemployment going up, that's the truth. At least 9.8 million people are unemployed in Turkey today. The broadly defined unemployment rate is at least 27 percent, that's the truth. People are unemployed and have lost hope of finding a job. Neither in education nor in employment has increased by the same period of the previous year and has approached 30 per cent. Most of these people are young and college graduates. You destroy the future of the country by destroying the hope of young people in this country, but you can't see beyond your nose because of your pride in power. Young people are out of work, one out of three young people are out of work and in debt at the same time. Turkey is probably the only country in the world where employment rates have been reduced and unemployment has been reduced. Now, public debt is increasing, but also. The public debt rate has risen to a terrible level. In August of last year, the debt of consumer loans, which was 409 billion euros, increased to $657 billion in August of this year; there is a 60 percent increase, a frightening level. The public is in debt, the tradesmen are closing. Between January 1st and August 31st, 160,000 tradesmen closed their doors. So, this is the result of the wrong economic policies of power. In the last five years, 3.4 million citizens have been pursued, that's the state of the public. The rate of public debt for national income is rising, and the alarm bells are ringing about the bankruptcy of the public, and you don't realize it. The national rate of central management debt increased by 30.8 per cent in 2019, to 40.4 per cent in August 2020. Now, the interest lobby's favorite power is now ruling the Justice and Development Party. You know, the number of interest you're often talking about, even though you're fighting that interest lobby, is going up. Look, according to the mid-term fiscal plan, which includes 2021, 2022, drafted by the Ministry of Treasury and Finance, Strategy and Budget President, in 2023, the total amount will exceed 600 billion Turkish liras in three years for the state's interest costs. That's more than the amount of ceilings in 11 ministries for three years. The economy isn't making a puck, it's going down, and it's clear that our people are getting poor every day. Now, in these circumstances, 15 days ago, the Treasury and Finance Minister shared a text with the new Economy Programme title of 2021-2023. Before the end of the paper's pages of the statement, the goals of this economic programme were salted, and the dollar dry forecasts collapsed. Now, when we look at this economic programme, expectations, and what's been done, compared with the previous New Economic Programme, this New Economic Programme, we see that it's really a very problematic situation. Inflation rates were not kept, revised, unresolved, unsustainable goals for public finance; the central management budget deficit has been revised; the public sector has been rehabilitated; the non-responsive rate of non-interest balance has been restored; it has not been maintained; it has remained unsupervised; it has remained unsustained; it has remained unsustained; it has been resolved; its public population has been rehabilitated; it has been resolved. It's not over. It's not over. Let's just say the Treasury and the Finance Minister don't have enough information and equipment on this, what about bureaucrats? Yeah, what kind of vision is that? In fact, all expectations have collapsed with the previous New Economic Programme. The predictions of the now-explained New Economic Programme -- 15 days later -- have been significantly degraded. What's the main thing? The main thing is that since June 24th, all data such as unemployment, inflation, gold, courtship, and all macro-economic balances have led to tremendous negativeities, so there has been a major collapse in the economy from the moment the president's government system started. Despite what the minister said, it's not a V-type recovery, it's an upside-down landing. The performance budgeting program of the public bureaucracy, which is corrupted by inadequacy and nepotism, will be equivalent to ditching the camel when it sees this impregnacy. With the latest explanation of the New Economy Programme and its collapsed data, it is possible to see a clear sign of this. So, in fact, this program has been trying to explain capital outputs over the past semester with free market concepts, although it's not. The totalitarian governance and absolute rule of power in Turkey, in fact, is in this New Economic Program, which has not been established in a single sentence, such as the abolishing of legal security, the rule of law, the failure of institutions and rules. You don't form this sentence, but the European Union forms its progress report, which the European Union Commission announces every year -- which has been explained for Turkey as a clear recession programme -- and Turkey is constantly stepping back in areas such as reforms, democracy, fundamental rights, rule of law, judicial independence, freedom of expression and press, as it explains in its report for the Commission of the European Union. See, you don't see it, you don't understand it. This path in the economy is about the great disaster you've created in democracy, the government system you've established, the freak under the name of the presidency, the dissolution of forces, destroying the rule of law, destroying the state of law. The European Union Commission continues to write this report and says: "The State of Emergency is over, but democracy and fundamental rights continue to be seriously affected. " This report says that all the powers are held at the presidential level of one person, it has nothing to do with democracy. This report says the appointment of trustees to replace 47 HDP mayors appointed by democratic elections has made democratic processes in the local elections into questions. ▪ Local democracy has been eliminated, he says. So the European Union Commission, in its regression report, once again emphasizes what Turkey's rule in Turkey has done to Turkey, talks about torture and abuse, talks about setbacks in the meaning of freedom of expression. Let's say again: there are two main reasons for the economic and social crisis in Turkey in economic indicators. First of all: the adoption of the presidential government system and the destruction of all democratic operations in Turkey -- the removal of the separation of forces, the rule of law, the rule of law, and the oppression of law and justice. First of all, that's the basic reason for going upside down. The second is that in order to protect his power, the Justice and Development Party's non-resolvency policy in the Kurdish issue, security policies and continued to carry out this process with the policies of war, conflict and tension outside. These facts are obvious, and it's clear that you can't handle the economy with that understanding and that you can't trust it.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0223par0202	Mr. Oluç, let's wrap this up, please.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0222par0203	I am, Mr. President. Now, the leader of the Justice and Development Party says, "Mumin is the patient in poverty." Okay, patience is one of the teachings of these lands, but the rulers live in luxury and luxury and luxury and wastefulness in the palace, while the rulers have become a stone of patience. If we're going to talk about patience, we say, let's all be patient, come and share your wealth and wealth with the people, and if we're going to be patient together in adversity, then we say it means something. This power against inequality, against poverty, will not be able to come up with this understanding; it is very clear, and we express once again our opposition to this law proposal, which has been brought with this understanding. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0224par0207	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu has been asked to speak on the whole proposal. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0225par0210	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have taken a pledge on the Public Financial Management and Control Act, which is ranked 228, and on the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. I salute you all again. Dear friends, today is the 97th anniversary of Ankara's capital. Ankara is the capital of the capital, the state of Anatolia is the participation of Anatolia, the participation of Anatolia, which has been ruled by İstanbul for hundreds of years, which means taking over, on the other hand, the development and development of Anatolia. Ankara's capital is the development of Anatolia. In recent years, however, many investments have been done unfortunately to Istanbul, to the Marmara region, and if we calculate public-special cooperation projects, more than half of them are being done to them, unfortunately, Anatolia is being neglected, Ankara is being neglected. There is such a thing. I'm celebrating the year 97, but I think it's our duty to remind you. Good luck with our new year of life. I'm on the stand for the first time in our new year of life, wishing you good luck. Dear friends, I wish you well, but I know there's a great deal of trouble with the new way of life, and you know it. Since we moved on to this presidential government system, the law-making technique has become a total freak. I was in Istanbul for the weekend, joined the general council of a union, joined the general council of the TOLOSIS Union. Unfortunately, unions, NGOs, occupational organizations have no expectations of this place where the will of the nation must be fulfilled from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Parliament. How do you want it? So I told them, what do you think? Now, can you imagine, you're attending an NGO meeting, you're going to a meeting where there's a citizen, they're telling you their problems, they're telling you their problems, they're telling you their problems, you're going to have to take them as a congressman and pass them on to your friends on this side, in Congress, and in the administration. The executive officer, especially the ministers, should listen to us and take into account our notes during the course of the law, or during the inspection of the law. While the law is being made, we should all discuss it, but the administration, according to the new Constitution, doesn't come to parliament according to the government system, so the ministers don't come to talk, let's talk, let's discuss. There's no such thing. So the most important thing to expect from a Parliament is the meeting of the executive officer and the lawmaker, making law, and controlling the executive officer of the legislature; two functions. Our Parliament, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, is in no condition to do so during the new era. I'm really embarrassed to say this. I've told you this, and I've told you in the union's general board: there is no minister in parliament where we can pass on information we've received from you. The ministers are only coming to make budgets, during budgets; there is no other way they're in parliament -- there's no way to pass them on -- nor to make laws for inspection. Now, all over the world, law enforcement is subject to the need of those who run it. They make the need, Parliament makes the law, but we have a principle of separation of powers, which is that the administration cannot come to Parliament, which is why we don't have that kind of connection, and we can't make the law. I mean, that's no way to live. And in the past two years, we've made very, very unsuccessful laws with the presidential government system. We didn't tell it as much as we had to, we hardly ever made the inspection. Like I said, the ministers can't come, and when they come, they just come for the budget, they only come once a year for the budget, that's all. Other than that, I don't. Here's the thing: what if they come? Do the ministers have political will? They're not elected, so they don't have political will. The Constitution says that in the past, the Constitution says that the ministers are responsible for the work and procedures of the ministries they are in charge of, the authorities, at the same time. They don't have that authority anymore, the ministers don't have that authority. The executive staff consists of one person, only the President, who came with the election, when only one person came with the election, the President. In fact, the ministers are in the position of secretary general, the former undersecretaries have no authority, and they have no responsibilities whatsoever. They're not even responsible to the Parliament, they're not responsible to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, they're not responsible to the people, they're responsible to the President alone. So they don't answer here either. And we're not voting on trust for the budget. Such an abnormal system. After that, we go to NGOs, to the public, to the public, to the public, to the public, to the people who run this place, to make laws according to it, or to investigate corruption. I'm afraid that's not an environment. There is no other parliament in the world that does such legislation and control. There is no other parliament, like this Parliament, that is so unauthorized, that has no function, my friends. Ankara and İstanbul Metropolitan Assemblys are now attracting the public more, to watch; there are better results, more realistic, more realistic debates going on there. Better than here, Ankara and Istanbul are the parliaments of the Metropolitan or other major cities. You know how much they watch, they broadcast over the Internet. We're not allowed to broadcast, and all the activities here, all the talks, they're almost trying to hide, and so are the commissions. There's no point in what we do, there's no consequence. There's no such Parliament and no legislature process. Now, with all this going on, dear friends, on the day of the opening of the House, on October 1st, we received a proposal of law from our dear friends, a bill from our 19 fellow lawmakers. I'm very upset because there are some important changes, there are important issues, but normally, we're having a crisis, we're having a crisis, we're having an economic crisis, and the first law proposal that comes to parliament should be about the problems of citizens, right? There's no such thing. There is nothing in the matter about compiling and resolving the economic crisis; there is nothing about the problem, the problem of the citizen; there is nothing in the offer on the emergency, day one. But here's the thing: when it's supposed to be the other way around, when financial transparency should be increasing, there's been an offer to destroy financial information, numbers. Now, dear friends, Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 5018 came out in 2003. The Public Financial Management and Control Act is the constitution of our public financial legislation. According to him, all general budgetary institutions, private budgetary institutions, auditing and regulatory agencies, local administrations, municipalities and social security agencies are subject to this, and, of course, they apply their financial legislation. It's very important, it's like the constitution, it's the constitution. There was a law in 1927, which was well-known in 1927, until 2003, when the Law of Accountbei Publicity -- number 1050 -- came out in 1927. It's very important, financial legislation. After that, we moved on to a more modern, computerized, modern system; 5018 came in. It didn't fit right before I sat it down, because, for example, there's a performance-based budget, there's a significant amount of critiques in the Court reports regarding the performance-based budget. Half the public institutions can't apply the performance-based budget; they have problems, they can't apply them. Now, with an arrangement brought in here, sir, we're moving on to the performance-based budget. What is the budget of the program based on performance? You ask the teachers, you ask the academics, because we don't know it, it's not like that. I mean, there's no such thing as a performance-based program budget, but look, it was brought here. It's a complete fabrication, which means he's not even in literature. Now, there are different categories of budgets in the world. There's a category of budgets all over the world to look like each other, categorized, or set up by new systems called COFOG. You see, there's no kind of budget called the performance-based program budget. It's exactly what they call something that's been brought in to confuse them. There's no way to tell what happened. And then here's the thing, dear friends: Now, when you say budget, we're not talking about a single number. For example, how much is the budget for the Ministry of National Education? 200 billion liras. If you write down the directorates of the Ministry of National Education, it should be worth $200 billion in institutions. In some institutions, it's 200 billion total, the head office of primary school, the General Directorate of Middle School, the directorate of private schools and so on. This is an institutional-based classification, but on a corporate basis, the budget of the Ministry of National Education may not mean much to you. And you have to see this on an economic basis, so on economic basis, how much investment is there in the National Ministry of Education budget, how much current spending, how much transfer spending, how much personnel spending? An economic classification is also done to see these things. Here you can see the economic figures in the budget of the Ministry of National Education. What I just said was investment, transfer and current spending and so on. That's what they look like. Other than that, there's financial classification, which shows what the source is, where the expenses come from the general budget, the funds, their income, their private income, they show them. And it's very important, there's functional classification. Functional classification also shows the quality of public spending, allowing it to be compared to each other, allowing it to be compared to other countries. Now, when the budget of the Ministry of National Education says 200 billion, it doesn't mean that there's spending on national education, education in Turkey, because there are other institutions besides that that are spending education, for example, education in the Dianet Business, for example, education spending in TÜBİTAK, which should be included in education spending. This is functional classification, so according to the analytical budget technique in Turkey, there are four types of classification, and it is possible to see the budget numbers with these four categories, to analyze them. When you see it this way, it's also possible to compare it to the previous years, and it's possible to compare it to other countries and the budget within itself, and it's possible to analyze it. This is a very important matter. Now, by removing functional classification, the work is complicated. Why is he being brought in? Because spending on city hospitals, road, bridge crossings, whatever institution's spending is public speaking, disturbing power. Now, to offer something like this, to even bring it here... what if I can't think of it, believe me, I can't believe the power would do such a thing? Glory be to the companions of the right hand; they have no knowledge of it, nor do they intend it. It's an arrangement that comes from power, which should clearly be a bill of law, but it's not well-intentioned, I'm afraid. On the contrary, countries' budgets become transparent, financial transparency is provided. When financial transparency is achieved, budgetary rights are fulfilled. You know how important budget rights are. No budget, no democracy. No budget, no democracy. Believe me, we're destroying democracy, we're destroying democracy, it's such a big deal. I'm afraid we have no right to say we're a better Parliament than those city councils, if that's the result of such legislation. Dear friends, there are important items in the proposal that we'll soon see when the materials are switched to. We also support a couple of clauses. If we could have had a better discussion, we'd have made a better arrangement. But there's a law on public financing number 4749 and the regulation of debt management. See, the 12th article: the net use of debt in Article 5 is applied twice the amount of net use raised by the Minister and the President, in accordance with a very small arrangement. Now, this is a sentence law clause. This, in fact, contains a budget. The debt and budget deficit in 2020, which is $140 billion, raises the budget deficit to 308 billion. Dear friends, if this is the Great National Assembly of Turkey, if this is where the people's will comes to be able to lend me 140 billion dollars, do you know why, why, do you know? Shouldn't we be curious, as lawmakers, why couldn't they do that? Why is the budget $140 billion short, so clear, so in need of debt? If there's a law called a budget, if there's a budget law, if it's that important, it's that people who come in here and give information to the budget, we couldn't do it for these reasons, it didn't happen, they should say we want an additional budget. This happened, sir, and we did it last year, and the Constitutional Court saw fit. It may be appropriate, but it is unethical. If we're a Parliament, if people's will is to remain here, they should be informed here. If this House is respected, if this nation is respected, it has to be done. What do you mean, it's legal? You will increase this much, you will increase your debt from 140 to 308, you will not give away your debt, your budget deficit, but with such a short law. This kind of democracy doesn't exist, and it doesn't mean that we really respect the MPs here and this nation. I don't mean to be disrespectful, and I don't mean to be negative, but I'm afraid so, dear friends. Dear friends, in the beginning, before we went into negotiations, we explained that there are some issues that are contrary to the Constitution, which are also in detail to our opposition, but now, if the presidency reporting is being brought in as a law, there is nothing to do with the staff, there is no task and there is nothing to do with it; these will be organised by the President. So, well, now that you're here, since you've come to the House, why aren't there staff contracts, duties, and powers that are required by Congress? Half will be done here, half will be done in the presidency. Is that the way to live, friends, is that the way to live? You do half the law here, you do half on that side, that can't happen.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0226par0226	Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0225par0227	Thank you, Mr. President. There is no other parliament in the world that has already divided the authority of law. So there's no other country that gives the President or the kings who rule their country the law, there's no other parliament. But it's not in the world to bring one law into existence, half by Parliament, half by the presidency. Lawmakers, lawmakers, should probably examine the example of Turkey, this presidential government system in private. Dear friends, I wish you all the best of our new year of life again.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit06spe0227par0231	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0227par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of Turkey's 4th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 228. The commission is in place. Now, on behalf of the individuals, I promise you ten minutes. The first word is Mr. Abdulatif Sener. Here you go, Mr. Sener.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0228par0008	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, many issues have been arranged with this bag of legislation that we're talking about, but it may be a little bit like mixing up the text on all of these very short periods, so I'm going to try to simplify it, and I'm just going to use my time in connection with debt. Clearly, the arrangement with Article 12 of this text shows that the government is not satisfied with debt. As the budget law was passed, it was authorized to borrow $139 billion. According to this mandate, 5 per cent of the minister had the authority to borrow a total of 153-154 billion euros, including 5 per cent of the President. But we see that the amount of debt was not enough for them to reach the end of the year, so they want to double their debt authority. So, if you don't take into account the change, if you buy it at 139 instead of 308 billion dollars or 140 dollars, it will demand a loan of 306 billion dollars. But they've created the text so complex that the amount of debt in this substance can be increased to 325 billion because of this vague and vague text to show what they've done, what they've done, how much they've owed, and how much they're owed. When this clause was discussed, the Deputy Minister would arrive, and then let us continue. After half an hour on the Commission and after that half an hour the Commission was called again, we asked the Deputy Minister for an explanation of this clause, and he said three or five sentences, but apparently he was afraid to speak, to give more information, to be afraid, to give more information. And because of his shyness, we never learned from the Minister's mouth or from the mouth of those who prepared this bill what the amount of debt was brought with this clause. Now, I'd like to ask the relevant bureaucrats and the friends who offered the law, what's the limit on the debt that comes with this clause? How much does he owe, including five percent? At least explain this in the General Assembly, the uncertainty of the Commission, the uncertainty of the Commission, will be eliminated. I said the government can't afford to borrow, spend money, so what's the source of this debt? He announced the mid-term programme, which said there would be no reduction in tax revenues in 2020, even in the total income of the state. In fact, the total public revenues in the budget claimed that state revenues would receive $16.5 billion more at the end of the year. If there's no shortage of revenues for 2020, then where are you going to spend this additional debt? That's my basic question. We don't know that, there's a terrible uncertainty here. And if you tell the General Assembly where you're going to spend it -- please -- properly, we'll know, and the public will know. But apparently, this government is spending all of its money, no matter how much money they actually find. So it's like a pot that's turned into a pot, fill it up no matter how much water doesn't hold, and no matter how much money goes into the government's bowl, it doesn't stay in the bowl, it just keeps running; it's unknown where it's going, it's not clear where it's going, except for some key pens. Look, I'm looking at what they've collected this year. Here, they're going to collect nearly a trillion pounds of tax revenue according to the mid-term schedule. Other than that, they took the National Bank's profits, the reserve, they finished the central bank's reserves, they spent it. The central bank's net reserves were 36 or so billion at the beginning of 2019, and now the central bank reserves at a level of minus 53 billion if you take into account the Swap obligations. So there's a negative reserve, so there's no net reserves. So we're talking about a government that has melted, consumed, spent 90 billion dollars in reserves. Then they used the unemployment fund. The unemployment fund had 132 billion liras at the beginning of the year. They also spent $20 billion on the unemployment fund, not just on the workers, but on the bosses. They spent a lot of money on public banks. In fact, at some point, the President said he would spend the money in the individual pension fund. So they don't collect enough, they're looking for new resources. Every day, from time to time, they are heated to the news, trying to figure out how to transfer the workers' severance pay to their own gains. All of this is not enough; they are campaigning for us; they are collecting $2.1 billion. That's not enough, they campaigned for the victims and veterans of July 15th, they collected 309 million Turkish liras, and still the martyrs and veterans didn't take a penny from it. It was not enough, they said, "Aman, for the martyrs and veterans of the Beşiktas explosion, they started a campaign there, and they collected $55 million from there. In the Beşiktaş explosion, the martyrs didn't give money to anyone about the veterans and the dead, about our citizens, from here and from what they collected. So you collect, you collect, you borrow, you keep borrowing; what do you do with all this money, where do you spend it? Why is there no transparency? You have to explain every single one of these things. It's not just ours, it's the citizen's. I've never seen or heard of such a government in my life. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] And then there's the covered grant. The amount of covered funds also flows between $2 billion and $3 billion. I've looked at it since 2003, and I've done an account -- $7.5 billion -- between 2003 and 20, when you multiply it by $8, it's 60 billion Turkish lira. You know, you can't spend money in your pocket like it's a covered grant. It's that kind of money. If you spend a little too much money, they'll ask; the financier will ask, the government will ask, some institutions will ask. Covered funds have a guarantee of spending that no one can account for, and if anyone tells them where they're being spent, they'll end up in jail in court. I wonder where you're spending all this. But the fact is, the debt supply is constantly increasing. From time to time, the government has raised the public debt, which is $243 billion in 2002, to $1 trillion, 810 billion, more than 1.5 trillion. Who's gonna pay for this?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0229par0015	AK PARTY will pay.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0228par0016	Our children, our grandchildren will pay with taxes, incomes that the next generation has not yet won. It's a big source, but there's no debt to the Entity Fund here. And I'm guessing the total debt supply of the asset fund is $284 billion. Again, there are other debts outside the treasury.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0230par0019	Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0228par0020	And unfortunately, all over the world, because of this crisis, the tradesman's direct income has been provided; although he has collected so much money, Turkey is the only country in the world that does not provide free, direct money for its underprivileged citizens. I mean, except for the thousand liras you gave me from the Fak-Fuk Fund. You can't count the money paid from the unemployment fund, even under the minimum wage, given to people on paid leave; we're talking about the money you're collecting. There's no such example in the world, there's no government that makes that much money. We have a government that doesn't spend that kind of money in such essential places, but is very generous to spend it in some unnecessary places, and I'd like to see it soon.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0230par0023	The second word for the individuals is for Mr. Ekrem Çelebi. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0231par0026	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the entire Law Proposal for Amendments to some Laws by Public Financial Management and Control Law 228 rows. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation, asking that the year of the fourth legislature of the 27th century be a blessing to our Veteran Assembly and to our country. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before I begin my words, I'd like to present one thing. Now, we've had two speakers in a row since then, and two of them are members of the Plan and Budget Commission. Of course, one of the duties of the 2nd party in particular is to criticize the government, and I'm not saying anything to that, but I wish they'd brought something in place of the sentences they said or the laws we brought. We see in the Plan and Budget Commission, just criticism; we come to the General Assembly, just criticism. I'd especially like to ask some of the older brothers who have served in the public field for years, some of whom I love very much, that in the end, we're all members of parliament here. We bring in the law, we bring in the offer, but I don't think it's right to investigate lawmakers. We can criticize parties, we can criticize the law, but if this MP is bringing in a bill, he's worked on it. And I'd like to offer this to your appreciation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before we begin our discussion, I would really like to sum up to you what we have brought with our proposal of the law. With our proposal, the transition to the performance-based programme budget system; the upgrade of the public institution's ranks on the extensions to Law 5018; reducing the social and economic impact of the pandeminium's social and economic structure; supplying additional financing in the framework of investment, employment and growth; supplying additional funding in the framework of budget balance; determining conditions for the opening of medical faculty for the foundation universities; and paying off municipal loans to municipalities and municipalities in the presidential administration head of administrative affairs; and paying off the title of President's Reportership and Reporter's Assistant; providing additional funds to support for them; and resolving the conditions for the construction of the support of the facilities; and resolving of the treatments; and the conditions for the conditions for the construction of municipal areas in which do not exist in the region of municipal affairs; but for the rural areas of the municipal areas of municipal areas, which do not have to be confined to the rural areas of municipal areas and in the region.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0232par0030	Why did you leave out the 12th article? You've been telling it regularly.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0231par0031	...to be determined by such factors as accessibility to municipal services, and to implement various fees, taxes, tuition and reductions to those living in these areas; to apply to relevant institutions and courts under the State of Emergency law; to be able to conduct their work a year further in accordance with the conditions of pandem.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0232par0032	Why did you skip 12?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0231par0033	Mr. Tanal, if you'd just listen, I think you'd be next. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the central administration budget law is already under the principles adopted by Public Financial Management and Control Law 5018. Law number 5018, adopted by our Grand Assembly in 2003, is a crucial reform for drafting budgets with a result-oriented approach, strengthening fiscal transparency and accountability. With changes made in the first four articles of our proposal, we aim to launch the implementation process of the performance-based programme budget, based on modern budget approaches, and to enable the performance-based budget system. As it is known, the programme budget implementation uses a budget rating that shows more clearly what public resources are dedicated to. In many countries with developed public budgeting systems, such as the United States, France, Canada and Australia, budgets are in line with the programme budget approach. With the performance-based programme budget that we bring with our proposal, there is an opportunity to budget expenditures according to programming, to deciders on improving the cost priority, to provide information on the performance of public services, and to systematically use these information in the process of resource allocation. This approach will ensure a more effective determination of the needs and expectations of society and a stronger bond between public resources and public services. The performance-based programme will also contribute to transparency and accountability in public spending and will serve to ensure that our great Parliament uses its budgetary rights more effectively on behalf of our citizens. It will also contribute to a simpler, more understandable and auspicable structure of the budget, strengthening the goal, purpose relationship, language and concept union between the upper policy documents and the budget. Dear MPs, the Constitutional Court's decision dated June 11, 2020, has been cancelled by the presidential decree, which has been added to the Court of Law No. 5018 (I). It is also seen that part of the administrations under Law 5018 continue to be included in additional laws, even though they are already joined or closed by another administration. The amendment to Article 5 of our proposed law shall be added to the list of relevant institutions in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. Since 2003, when the law was published in the Official Gazette, there have been many changes in the additional tablets, and it has been difficult for the public to monitor the changes. Our proposal ensures the removal of the issues mentioned, and the reviews on the Constitutional Court's decision are being updated. Dear lawmakers, with another amendment to our proposal, we offer the ability to open medical school institutions for foundation higher education with a prerequisite for the existence of at least 200-bed hospital in its own possession and operating rights, in order to ensure that our students who have medical education at foundation universities can receive a more equipped application education. Again, we aim to employ the presidential Reportership and Vice Presidential Reportership as a career profession, as well as other ministries and public institutions and organisations. Thus, in the presidential government system, the development and stronger transfer of institutional memory related to the functioning of our state will be provided. Again, another arrangement we have brought is to obtain a building permit for electronic communications infrastructure. As it is known, the continuity of electronic communications services is crucial for public safety and disaster and emergency communication. Electronic communications stations today are essential to the maintenance of social and economic life, as well as to the need for communication for our citizens. With this material, we aim to organize licenses and permits for the necessary infrastructure elements, with the towers and pillars of electronic communications stations established in public and private property areas, structures and buildings. In this way, we strengthen control and surveillance in terms of the zoning law on the towers and pillars of electronic communications stations. At the same time, we'll be able to arrange license fees for the establishment of the infrastructure that our citizens need, and get the license fees that our municipalities have so far been denied. In other words, we provide local administrations for projects in areas that have been subjected to disaster by the Marmara and Düzce earthquake, an arrangement due to loans used by the European Investment Bank, which allows for the release of future creditors. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as it is known, so far, we have implemented several measures to minimize and minimize the negative effects of the pandemic on society's health as well as on the economy. In the coming period, it is important to take certain measures related to both public health and social and economic life in the fight against the epidemic.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0233par0045	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0231par0046	With our proposal for the law, we bring an arrangement to reduce the effects of the pandemic, to provide additional financing to support investment, employment and growth. Thus, we aim to maintain the continuity of our assistance to our citizens so far, by maintaining a high level of cash reserves. With another change, we maintain the tax and payment benefits as long as these qualities continue, as long as they are declared a rural area, not less than 10,000 square metres, to neighborhoods that turn into neighborhoods in the village and town, and are located within the city's municipality. Over the years, we aim to bring in a number of exemptions and discounts that will fit the status of our citizens in villages and towns that have been transformed into neighborhoods by staying within the limits of the city's municipality. We aim to make the administrations who know the best about the field fully, leaving the capacity for detection and appreciation here to the local parliaments.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0233par0049	Please welcome Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0231par0050	Congressmans, the Constitutional Court's Article 2019/92 and Article 2 of Article 2 of the Law No. 7075 have taken place in Article (3)... With additional precautions... the declaration has been cancelled. In this case, the application path has been opened against additional measures adopted under the State of Emergency, but it has not been determined where the institution or organisation is to be applied for. It provides an application for the institution concerned with additional measures in the laws adopted during the State of Emergency. In this scope, the clause can be applied to the relevant public institution and organisation within three months of its implementation date against additional measures. The public institution and organisation will conclude the application within six months at the latest; in case the application is rejected, those involved will be able to file a mistrial against Ankara administrative courts, which will be decided by the Council of Judges and Prosecutors. That way, these proceedings will be under judicial control. With another change, we predict that activities that should be conducted in RD and design centres and technology development areas can be extended from 11/10/2020 to a year.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0233par0053	Mr. Çelebi, let's wrap this up, and I'll take your last words.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0234par0054	You've extended it four times, give me a minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0231par0055	Okay, thank you. Given the course of the pandemic process in both the world and our country, we are making this arrangement because it is considered necessary to implement the topic arrangement for a period of time. Mr. President, we'd like to thank our esteemed lawmakers, our esteemed members of the Plan and Budget Commission for their contribution to our proposal, our bureaucrats, and our colleagues, and all our friends. He wishes our law to be good and good luck, and I hereby salute your high council.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0235par0060	Mr. President, the speaker spoke nicely, why did he skip the 12th article and tell us the reason for it? I mean, he wasn't a friend of ours who wouldn't know about it, but anyway, he refused to give us that information specifically, why?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0236par0061	Mr. Tanal, I believe you'll be asking these questions when the 12th Amendment is being discussed in the Parliamentary General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0235par0062	Now, ready, fresher information, Mr. President, when it's not quite in place. I mean, I'm giving him a minute.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0236par0063	All right, now, lawmakers, we're going to do 20 minutes of QA. Mr. Unsal...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0237par0065	Thank you. Mr. President, my dear friends, we've been living in the Coloradon days for ten months as a country. Today's workers are the medical staff, especially our doctors. You know what? In the last three days, we have lost six of our doctors from corona; these are Dr. Ahmet Akbaş, 30 years old, neurosurgeon; Dr. Recep Ali Köseoğlu, pediatrician; Dr. Mehmet Atilla Baran, pandemi doctor; Dr. Nejdet Gökçınar, eye specialist; Operator Dr. Esat Ulku, President of the Aydın Medical Chamber; Dr. Abdulmenap, anesthesiologist. I remind you, my friends, that when you're all sick, of course, our doctors are where you're going, but our deaths still don't count as occupational hazards. O ye chieftains! It is an abomination, and a sin. The evil of every dying doctor is upon you. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0238par0069	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0239par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. Ibrahim Aydın, who has prepared this proposal of the law, and Mr. Ekrem Çelebi, who just spoke, is in front of me, and I wish Mr. Çelebi would turn off his phone as well. Now, you've made it perfectly clear here, you haven't told me the 12th article. So this 12th article... as of October 2020, how much did the Treasury owe and how much debt did we authorize? Can you tell us what this 12th article brings us? That's one. Second: How much did the public debt cost in 2002? How much is public debt in October 2020? I want to learn this clearly, clearly, without jumping, without going any further, the public wants to know. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0240par0075	Mr. Girgin...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0241par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. The beloved poet Bertolt Brecht describes justice as: "The bread of the people is justice." / You'll find there's plenty of bread, you'll see it's scarce. / You can't be satisfied, you can taste it, it's awful. / When the bread is less, the hunger begins. / When it's broken, it starts to taste dissatisfaction. / That's enough bad justice! / It's enough justice in the hands of novice, not well-cooked! / Enough pure, black-shelled justice! / Dura dura, just plain old justice! / Just as bread is required every day / Justice is required every day. He is needed many times a day. Istanbul 14. It is illegal, unlawful, and unlawful that the Supreme Court does not recognise the decision on Enis Berberoglu! Enis Berberoglu must return to parliament. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0242par0080	Mr. Tutdere...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0243par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. According to the Health Ministry's data, one of the cities where the epidemic is densest is Adıyaman. Because of the plague in our province, dozens of our citizens die every day, hundreds of people are infected. We already have a large number of citizens in our hospitals who are being treated. I pray to all my fellow citizens who are treated in hospitals for immediate healing, and for God's mercy to those who have passed away. I'd like to thank all the health workers who worked hard day and night in the fight against the plague. One of the main reasons why the epidemic is so high is the lack of health facilities and the lack of physical conditions of the existing hospital. The lack of hospitals and lack of doctors are making it difficult to deal with the epidemic. I'm making a direct call from here to the Ministry of Health to begin construction of the state hospital before further casualties occur. The lack of attendings in all majors in our department should be resolved immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0244par0085	Mr. Butcher...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0245par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. There's no effect if I say it, and the heart is not content if I shut up. In the 138th article of the Constitution, the authorities are independent in their duties; they judge according to their consciences according to the Constitution, the law and the law. There is salt in the country now. The debt of loyalty to the Constitution has turned into loyalty to power. We've come to this day with extravagant, arbitrary decisions. The lights of the Constitutional Court are on. The lights of the Ministry of Interior are also on the other side. That's where Turkey comes in. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0246par0090	Mr. Sumer...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0247par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. Medical firms operating in the medical equipment sector have been unable to collect their dues for three and a half years. As they can't collect their dues, the state demands that they waive what they will receive by 25 per cent. This would make the chances of competing between domestic producers and foreign investors very difficult. The local manufacturer won't be able to do RD, he'll give up what he's owed and he'll go bankrupt in the short term. This means that in the long run, the state will suffer. In the pandemic process, we've all experienced how important a ventilator is, how vital it is. The local manufacturer must be supported, encouraged. The situation of giving up payments that will not even be offered to a foreign investor should not be imposed on the local manufacturer. Medical equipment manufacturers must be paid without a waiver.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0246par0093	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0248par0094	Mr. President, AKP Mayor Eşref Üssal is in the town of Akharim, Afyonkarahisar Province, Turkey; his daughter Semiha has taken a job as an official in the District of Afyaklı, Turkey. Now, I'm asking the power: can you tell the mayor's daughter is taking the exam commission at equal distance from all candidates, acting objectively, making fair decisions, not pulling strings on the mayor's daughter? Moreover, the questions were given before the exam, the board members were given a Black Sea holiday by the president, and even the applications of those who applied for the exam were carried out by the mayor's daughter. I'm calling it quits when millions of young people with merits are looking for jobs and people are killing themselves out of unemployment! Have a heart, have a conscience! I wonder how many more AKP mayors will continue to employ their seven families in the municipalities.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0246par0095	Mr. Emecan...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0249par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. As you know, in Enis Berberoglu's case, the Constitutional Court found a unanimous violation and demanded that the results of the violation be retributed by a retrial. Enis Berberoglu must be reinstated after the Constitutional Court's decision, and now, 14. The High Criminal Court ignored the Constitutional Court's justified decision and denied the decision to retrial. This decision, which suspends the Constitution, is not in judgment, and it is a scandal, once again faith in justice has been struck. I call upon the Council of Judges and Prosecutors for a severe criminal court that does not recognise the Constitution, and I would like to sum up the situation we are in with these verses of Tevfik Fikret. ▪ We have seen the enthrall of injustice; is that the law? We've fallen into the saddest of misery, is that the state? Whether it's the government or the law, let it be enough. Let it be enough for this to be an act of cruelty.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0250par0102	Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0251par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. Get well soon, Hatay. Again, forest fire, our hearts burned. Last Friday, in the fire in Belen district of Hatay district, the house and workplace was burned down by 300 hectares of forest, trees, gardens, fields, crops, living things burned down. Many citizens are now homeless, unemployed, with only their clothes on. In the face of the situation affecting more than 500 families, the AKP government should assess the region as a disaster zone and support the citizens, cover the financial damage and fulfill its constitutional obligation. There are many possibilities. The terrorist organization's attempt to take responsibility should be taken care of, not set up. Fires at the same time at long distances strengthen the possibility of sabotage. Whoever caused it, we curse, nature is our future, and those who burn our future are traitors.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0252par0106	Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0253par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. Since the first day of the pandemic, medics have been fighting on the front line to protect public health. Meanwhile, the virus opportunists don't stand idle. Following the innocent advertising of products containing the drug's agent on TV, a counterfeit pharmacy has now been created in a supermarket chain. Only products, medicine and pharmaceuticals that should be sold at the pharmacy began to be sold in supermarket chains using mortars, stethoscopes, drug capsules. In the supermarket, where the concepts of medicine and pharmaceuticals are wrongly used, supplementary food, immunosuppressive drugs, vitamins are displayed for citizens to receive without any health counselors. It is a serious threat to public health that health products that contain a factor are sold in supermarkets under the name of food supplements. The only correct address for all medicines and health products is the pharmacy and only the pharmacy. The Ministry of Health must take immediate measures for such initiatives. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0254par0110	Mr. Sevkin...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0255par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 153 of the Constitution shall have to abide by the Constitutional Court's decision. Istanbul 14. The High Criminal Court has refused to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. The rights of Enis Berberoglu have been violated. The High Criminal Court has ruled that it will not comply, and there will be no need for a retrial. This is clearly a violation of the Constitutional Court, not a denial of the Constitutional Court's decision. If justice decays, everything decays, and democracy weakens as the state of law weakens. By reminding everyone of the obligation to obey the Constitution, I wish that this law freak would be terminated immediately and that injustice against Enis Berberoglu would be cleared of rights violations.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0254par0113	Mr. Paper...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0256par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. Sugar beets are being taken out, factories are starting sugar beets campaigns, but the sugar beets' purchase price isn't yet announced. The price of inputs, such as electricity and irrigation, is constantly rising, and our farmer still doesn't know the price of his product. The length of the pandemic process and the constant increase in currency rates and the fact that the price of sugar beets has never been announced gives concern to our farmer. Because the prices are undetermined, our farmers do not know what to gain by not being able to plan ahead. It also reflects power, exhaustion, and despair on our beet farmer. He says the prices must be announced quickly, and I salute the General Assembly, taking into account the increasing price of inputs and foreign currency, without raising any further concern for our farmers who have been through difficult times and have not paid for their product.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0254par0116	Yes, last but not least, Mr. Erbay.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0257par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. When we woke up on the morning of October 7th, we saw 32 declarations of geothermal licenses in the official newspaper, covering every corner of our rare natural beauty in the world. Sadly, neither the mayors nor the members of parliament nor the people of Mughla were aware of this matter, concerning the city and its countryside and all of our people. Although we are positive about efforts to promote muğla tourism to twelve months, the uncertainty of these tenders has caused the people of Mugla to worry. The transparency of this tender and its scope in a transparent way, the lack of measures to take, causes us to look at these tenders with concern. We've all seen the damage done to nature, environment and agriculture by the work done for geothermal energy in our environmental provinces. Once again, we declare ourselves against this tender that will plunder our mugla. Yesterday you betrayed Istanbul, and now with this project, you betray Mugla.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0258par0120	Yes, we've used a little of the Commission's time, but we'll extend the Commission's time if needed. Here you go, Mr. Commission.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0259par0122	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with love and respect. Only Mahmoud Tanal MP has a question about the 12th article regarding our proposal of this law: So how much more is the net amount of debt -- predicted for 2020 -- increased? What are the reasons for increasing the projected net amount of debt use? The net debt limit stated in the Central Management Budget Law for 2020 years is 140.1 billion TL. Over the course of the year, 5 per cent of the limit by the minister -- which is 147.1 billion euros for 2020 -- is an additional 5 per cent -- is dominated by the President's decision -- that is, 154.1 billion euros for 2020 under Law 4749.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0260par0124	What's the total?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0259par0125	In the event of law enforcement, the limit will be doubled.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0260par0126	How much is it?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0259par0127	The Covid-19 pandemic that has caused governments all over the world to resort to extraordinary measures...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0260par0128	I didn't ask why. I asked how much.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0259par0129	... In order to reduce the social and economic impact of the 2020 investment, employment and growth, a loan was needed due to the financial impacts of economic measures taken temporarily and a net loan to the Treasury and Finance Ministry earlier this year, in order to ensure that the potential risks could be eliminated due to the pandemic. In this scope, the law proposal provides a legal arrangement to reduce the effects of the pandeminium, to meet existing measures to promote investment, employment and growth, and the need for additional financing that we will implement in the event of further need. Thus, in response to the uncertainty created by the pandemic, the Treasury aims to maintain the continuity of aid to citizens so far by maintaining the level of cash reserves high. A conservative liquidity management approach will continue to provide preparedness for unexpected developments that could lead to an urgent need for funding. However, the limit increase does not mean that the entire limit will be used after the limit increase has been made. Through rapid recovery of the type V type V in economic growth from June, monthly debt rates have begun to decline from the beginning of September, and this trend is expected to continue by the end of the year.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0261par0132	So, how much is the public debt? That was one of my questions, you didn't say that. Two: How much was the public debt in 2002? You didn't say that either.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0262par0133	Yeah, he told me! Tanal, you don't understand!
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0261par0134	I mean, how can I ask any more questions, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0262par0135	How the hell is he supposed to answer that?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0261par0136	He didn't answer! I mean, how much is it now?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0263par0137	Mr. Tanal, the Commission will answer your question.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0264par0138	Members of parliament, in 2000 the rate of national income of the EU-defined public debt stock was 71.5 per cent. In 2020, the rate of EU-defined public debt is 39.4 per cent.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0261par0139	Forget about the EU, and tell me: "There's so much debt, public debt." Tell me the number, friend.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0265par0140	He has no knowledge of the people. You can say, "No knowledge of the people."
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0264par0141	From 2002 to 2020, the national rate of public debt is reduced by half from 71.5 per cent to 39.4 per cent. This was given to us by the successful national policy of our government at this time.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0261par0142	Mr. President, our friend couldn't tell us himself. I swear he didn't! I say it's clear: How much was the public debt in 2002? Ten liras or 15 liras? Just pronounce it to me like that. Two: How much is the public debt at 2020? 20 lira or 30 lira? Say it like that, brother!
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0266par0144	Don't you see how well he sings?
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0267par0145	Mr. Tanal, we'll give it to you in writing tomorrow, next week.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0261par0146	It's not in writing, bro! I'd like to know that in 2002, the public debt is $10, and in 2020, the public debt is $20.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0267par0147	Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0268par0148	Mr. Mahmut Tanal has some questions he wants to ask the Commission, and there's nothing wrong with that.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0267par0149	On what grounds is the performance-based programme budget changed during the talks of our ministers, our MPs? Why is the budget system established with Law 5018 being changed? The performance-based budget system established with the Law on Financial Management and Control 5018 is also a budget system that strengthens financial transparency and accountability that allows a result-oriented public financial administration to be implemented. With the implementation of this system, the understanding of medium and long-term planning in public administration has been provided, the creation of performance management culture and the development of institutional capacity in this area. However, in the performance-based budget system, the aim and goals set out in high policy documents have shown that the budgets set up under an analytical budget classification have not been able to establish adequate relations, and the performance information produced through strategic plans and performance programmes has not been included in budgeting and decision-making processes. For this reason, performance-based programme budget reform was decided to be implemented, connecting performance information and resources set aside from the performance-based budgeting system, taking advantage of the gains from the performance-based budgeting system and international good implementation samples. The budget is a budgeting system where expenditures are classified according to programming, where information on public service performance is provided to decisionmakers about improving the spending priority, and that information is systematically used in the process of resource allocation. Performance-based programme budgets, more efficient participation in the needs and expectations of society in the budget; the ability to establish a bond between public resources and public services and to improve the spending priority; instead of the inputs of the budget; the introduction, implementation, implementation and evaluation of the budget with a result-oriented approach; the strengthening of financial discipline by improving the cost-effective priority; the strengthening of language and understanding between the higher policy documents and the budget; and strengthening of language and cognitiveness;
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0269par0152	Mr. President, I didn't ask you that question. He's wasting time.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0267par0153	Public service is linked to other public services, so public service presentation and increased the impact of administrative structure...
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0269par0155	How much is the public debt in 2002? What's the public debt in 2020? In 2020, here's how much the Treasury owed, three questions. This has nothing to do with my question! No one asked me that question either! They put it in your hand, they light it up, you read it. That's not cool!
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0270par0156	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0267par0157	...such important gains will be made that strengthen public financial management. The improved performance-based budget system includes all aspects of the advanced budget systems applied in developed countries, both in content and technological infrastructure; it is a unique budget system in line with the structure of public services and the expectations of our citizens.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit07spe0270par0160	I'm taking a minute off from the merger.
tbmm-2020-10-13sit08spe0270par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 4th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 228. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since there are no other jobs available on our agenda today, it is Wednesday (October 14th 2020) at 2:00 p.m. to discuss legal proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the verdict. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
