tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Respected members, all humanity is going through a difficult and difficult time because of the pandemic of the corona that dominates the world. This plague gave us the opportunity to rethink some of the concepts that perhaps we are now forgetting in today's world, in which a purely self-centered and self-centered sense of real political understanding in international relations, at a social level, is dominated by a sense of freedom that can be considered self-centered and selfish. These concepts are cooperation and solidarity. The lack of efficient co-operation mechanisms among countries has accelerated the spread of the epidemic around the world, while the weaknesses of social solidarity seem to have increased the spread of the disease within countries. This crisis has reminded us in a painful way and continues to remind us that a good-profit cooperation between governments and the critical importance of social solidarity and the awareness of responsibility. To minimize these risks, we must continue to seek and develop multilateral political and economic co-operation opportunities on a global scale. As a result, we face a similar dilemma in our individual preferences. On the one hand, there are those who act solely on the instinct to protect themselves from the epidemic, who run a hoarding race to create a panic in society, and who sometimes risk being in a low-risk group, regardless of their self-esteem, are jeopardizing public health by maintaining social relations. On the other hand, we have a choice to serve social well by giving up some of our individual freedoms with the awareness that this epidemic requires a collective struggle. Let's not forget that our ability to come out of this struggle with minimal damage as a society depends on our sensitivity at this point. The state of the Republic of Turkey has been working with great determination and earnestness since day one at the point of medical control of the epidemic and the solution to other economics and social problems triggered by the epidemic. In order to ensure the minimum damage to this uncertain depression, our government, especially our health workers, is also in a selfless effort with all institutions and organizations. We, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, are in the process of preparing the legal infrastructure of this struggle in light of developments in our country and the world. Besides, it is our duty as Parliament today to take a mature stand today that emphasizes the fate union of the nation against any separatist, provocative and opportunistic attitudes, and to interpret the expectations and feelings of society. I thank the General Assembly and all the MPs who contributed to the commission's work. I pray to God that this plague will soon be under control and not be a threat to humanity. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before I go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three members of parliament off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Aydın MP Huseyin Yildı, who wants to talk about the outbreak of the coronavirus. Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0002par0017	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I want to thank each and every one of you for coming to the General Assembly by making sacrifices as we go through these difficult days. Dear friends, you know, on March 10th, unfortunately, the coronavirus' first symptoms began in Turkey. At the time, we declared a curfew by declaring a state of emergency as the Republican People's Party, including our President. Unfortunately, the government did not take this seriously, so it became clear where we were in the last 20 days. Dear friends, I'm afraid we haven't been able to control our citizens, especially those who went to the house and returned to 14 Martas, and we've distributed them throughout the cities, and unfortunately, March 14th, 24th. And you've taken precautions. On the 14th of March, about 500 people arrived from Umren on two flights to İzmir, and you distributed them to the entire Aegean region without checking. Dear friends, yes, it's time for unity. In this period, when this disease came out in China, when it came out in South Korea, they showed us an example of how it was taken care of. In fact, if we had applied the system of South Korea and China, 167 would not have died today, nearly 1,000 of our citizens would not have remained in intensive care. What are we supposed to do from now on, dear friends? That's all that matters. What will become of Turkey's economy after this illness? The most important thing in the coming term is the food industry, dear friends. America has announced 2 trillion 200 billion budgets, Germany has announced 750 billion dollars, France, Italy has explained the same thing, unfortunately we have already announced an incentive for $100 billion, which is $14 billion. And these 14 billion dollars, they don't know where they're going. Every time our President was on the stand, he made a statement. He was rightly saying: "We have money; we have spent $40 billion on Syrians; we will spend $40 billion more if necessary." You say to the citizens of this country why there is no money when they come to the citizens of the Republic of Turkey. A government that spends $40 billion on Syrians, a government that spends $40 billion more, if necessary, says there is no money for a citizen of the Republic of Turkey. Dear friends, again, on March 10th, if you had declared a curfew, those 15 days would not have left 3 million people unemployed today. Why? Because you closed the coffees first, then the restaurants, then the cafes; all the workers who worked there were laid off for free by the employer. Now 10 million people are unemployed, 10 million families can't afford bread, dear friends. Mr. Minister says that we have postponed taxes, SGKs. Just yesterday, at least 100 phone calls have come to you; they are coming to you, too, with the electronic foreclosure system, the SGK and the tax offices have applied to all citizens' accounts. Yesterday a citizen called me. I was working at the restaurant. They fired me. My mom cashed her bracelet, sent me $3,000. I owed it to the SGK. I went to the bank to collect money to pay my rent, but unfortunately, they took that 3,000 lira of mine, using electronic foreclosure, and now I can't even bring home the bread. Dear friends, dear lawmakers, we all have to get through this together. But here's the truth: it's different from what you say and what you do. I'm speaking to AKP's Deputy Group: Call the CEOs of the SGK, the heads of the tax offices, remove these e-accessors immediately. People are in trouble, unable to find bread. Everyone in the world -- really, honestly -- gives all kinds of support to their citizens, but our President is making a statement, giving them an IBAN number to raise money from his citizen. What kind of government would that be? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We can't keep the government alive without keeping people alive.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0003par0028	Mr. Star, finish your words.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0002par0029	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, next semester, right now, postpone all farmers' debts. You need to take at least 20 or 30,000 agricultural engineers and spread them all over the area. The biggest problem ahead will be the food shortage. Mr. Minister of Agriculture shouldn't go and live in his house, work with a planned bureaucracy, give all the farmer's support in the coming period. You owe the farmers $49 billion now, the government owes the farmers money. We need to give this money and get through the next semester by making regionals. Otherwise, you'll see in four months, you won't find any food on the shelves. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0004par0033	The ministers aren't at home, Congressman, they're all working. Your actions have been postponed, and your deeds have been postponed.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0005par0034	The second non-responsive statement is from Batman MP Mehmet Rüç Tiryaki, who wants to talk about measures taken across the country against the coronavirus epidemic. Here you are, Mr. Tiryaki.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0006par0038	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the measures taken on the Covid-19 pandemic that must be taken, and I salute you all. We say it's off the agenda, but it's strictly off the agenda, or it's the first item in our country and the entire world, Covid-19. We're going to live with Covid-19, which is understandable. I'm saying we're going to live, but in fact, we've already lost dozens of our citizens, hundreds of our citizens are fighting for their lives in intensive care, and experts say that this figure will find thousands in the near future. We don't know how much the Ministry of Health and the government are considering their proposals, but a Science Council has been formed. This Science Council, we're sure, is made up of experts in its field, sharing its suggestions and concerns with the government. Paramedics work day and night from ambulance driver to lab technician to physician, anesthesiologist to all the staff working in the O.R., despite all the shortcomings. Yes, the government makes some decisions and brings some restrictions. There is no question that a significant portion of these are true; wash your hands with soap often, clean them with cologne if there is no water and soap, cover your mouth when you cough and sneeze, declare yourselves a personal State of Emergency, do not go out in public places, stay in the house. We don't need to be a government for these suggestions, we all make them, we all do. So, what are the developed countries doing? They stop production except in areas where production is mandatory, they ban the street, they take the necessary measures to meet the need for food for the public, they say no one will be unemployed, they're putting employees on free leave, so every country transfers resources to the extent of its resources; there's 100 billion dollars split, and there's 2.5 trillion dollars split. So, what's the government doing in our country? He does not bring a curfew, but instead declare your own State of Emergency. He says, "Stay home." Well, those who have to work, who can't bring bread home if they don't work, unemployed, homeless, immigrants, there's no protection for them, there's patience and prayer for them. Yes, patience and prayer are good, but spiritually. There's no curfew. Why? If the government declares a curfew, it will have to deal with the losses of those who have to close the workplace, the malls, the factories, all the unemployed. What's the point? They're all closing down! What's a million unemployed people gonna do? Water and soap. Those who will be out of work due to Covid-19, cologne and prayer... You've announced a $100 billion support package. Although you say 100 billion TL, we all know that at least 12 billion TL of this $100 billion is already a holiday bonus for pensioners. It is also a minimum wage allowance of 74 TL for employers for a long time. You didn't call a curfew, you didn't take responsibility. Stay in the house. You've loaded the entire burden with the call of the citizen, you don't have to be the government to call for a stay-at-home call, we're all doing it. You don't take sufficient precautions for agriculture and livestock, people are flocking from city to village. What will you do when the pandemic hits the villages the day after tomorrow? We don't know if you have a precaution for that. But yesterday you exceeded yourself, and started a charity campaign, saying, "We are enough for us." You're already billing citizens for the economic crisis due to Covid-19. You're looking into the citizen's pocket, I'll give you that. Helping is good, solidarity is good, there's no doubt about it, cooperation and solidarity will grow and grow all of us, but not with you. Why? Look, where has the help of the depression gone? Where has he gone, are we going to answer to you?" If you answer, you will destroy the public's sense of trust. Besides, and of course, you'll answer because that's what democracy is all about. Look, one of the most respected charities in this country was Reda. You've made the Red as an instrument of tax evasion, and it's called tax evasion, tax evasion, and tax evasion." Although Kızılay is no longer a charity; it's a charity, but now you've finished trusting him. However, the history of this country is the history of aid and solidarity, and so are the foundations, and so is the public service, and so is the Social Services and Child Protective Services, and so is Rediay, but there is no trust in all of them. If it were not so, would people answer your call by opening it? Believe me, if people are opening such a thing, you're responsible.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0007par0046	Finish your words, Mr. Tiryaki.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0006par0047	After all, we have a few advantages. First, we follow Covid-19. We may not be Italy, Spain, China and the United States; experts say we still have a chance. Second, there are nearly 600,000 unaccounted for medical personnel waiting to be appointed. You have thousands of medical staff who are wrongly and unlawfully fired by the State of Emergency. Third, we live on some of the most fertile soil in the world. Kars, Erzurum, the plains of Amik, Çukurova, the Plains of Iconium, Thrace, the Black Sea, the Aegean... We can have a whole country that's self-sufficient, as long as we can support and protect agriculture and animalism. I'm just saying that at least after these difficult times, we can protect our people, our citizens, from starvation. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0008par0053	The third statement outside the agenda belongs to Ankara MP Mustafa Destici (Defici) who asked for a comment on the late Muhsin Yazıoğlu, the founder of the Grand Union Party. Here you go, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0009par0057	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with respect and love. I pray for the mercy of God to our citizens who have died from the disease of Coronavirus, and for the immediate healing of our patients. I sincerely believe that in unity, unity, and solidarity, we will survive these difficult times. Dear MPs, I was actually going to have this conversation on March 25th last week, but I'm here today in front of you on the matter of the House not working. On 25 March 2009, we lost our party's Founding Father, our leader, our litigator, our brother's late brother, Muhsin Yazoğlu and his traveling companions, our friends Erhan Üstüdağ, Yüksel Yancı, Murat Çetinkaya and Ismail Sun brothers. On March 31st, 11 years ago, we sent him off to Hakk. First, may God have mercy on our fallen leader and our fellow martyrs once again; may their souls rest in peace, and may their place be in heaven. On behalf of myself and my friends, our relationship with the late Mohsin Yazıoğlu has never been about political party leader and party member relations. Muhsin Yazıoğlu has been our leader since the day he became President of the Ülkü Januarys, and this has continued until his testimony. We've always seen him as our leader, and he's always treated us like friends and brothers. I met him at a conference at the Candy Student House, at a seminar, and we continued our relationship until his testimony, when I was a student at Ankara Central Imam Hatip High School in late 1978. In addition to being our leader, he was the most important and indispensable member of our family, our brother and our trial friend. As you know, Muhdin Yazıoğlu was a one - faced man; he was the same respect, kindness, patience, and love for the rich, the poor, the powerful, the old, the child, and the court member who worked at the party; he was generous, he was charitable, he was humble. To some, it was seen as weakness, in fact, his greatest power. Muhsin Yazıoğlu was a son of a country bound by love for his nation and its values. I see it as a manifestation of our nation's high sense of loyalty when we face a threat to people's will, to the safety of the nation, to the thought of our nation, to the mention of his name. On September 12, 1980, February 28, 1997, on April 27, 2007, he was not afraid, he did not hesitate, he did not hesitate, he did not say what would happen to me, he did not take a step back; he stood by the values of the nation and the will of the nation. From the day that we lost him, we held on to his ideals as we lived within ourselves the pain that never went away; we tried to imitate his personality, morality, faith, courage, honesty, loyalty to our people, to our state, to our nation, to our faith, to our values. As we tried to heal the wounds of the incident we lived in as a mosque, we followed legal processes with great seriousness, precision, and determination. The Great Unity Party is officially party and intervening with the families of our martyrs in all investigations and lawsuits regarding the process of testifying. Since day one, we haven't once used the word "accidental" for what happened. When local collaborators spoke of the possibility of an international conspiracy by hand, those who doubted us saw and accepted step by step what happened after July 15th and later. We're following the process without forgetting the fact that there is a need for state power to be illuminated in all aspects of the case, to be exposed by those who are negligent, misdeeds, intents, and flaws, to be judged in front of the law and to receive the punishment they deserve. This has been the most effort we've made, and we're not going to take a step back from here. We have not given up our struggle, even under the circumstances where the law is in the hands of the suspects and all of our contacts are wearing masks. Our patience is not because of our hesitation, but because we want everything to work within the legal department in accordance with the law and the law. Once again, justice is slow, but it always reaches its destination. And let there be no doubt that if the reckoning of the Hereafter were to be annulled, We would certainly bring about every reckoning in this world. As I put an end to my words, the poet who described our martyr, Mohsin, with a beautiful poem...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0010par0069	Mr. Destici, finish your words.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0009par0070	... I'd like to say goodbye to you in lines: Then the heart was crushed in grief. Hopes in the white-haired mountains have come to life, The blues smell of roses, the spring is gone, If you say you're cold, you're moving mountains. You thought of eternity, you laughed at the thorn. There's no measure of appreciation. There's a destiny. There's a whole new expedition at the end of the last trip, Private son in coffin, sorrow in hearts. You've identified my rank as a language, You've reached a range where you've put a rose in the thorn. It's like a curse in the past. Old memories are like a fairy tale, Thy brethren weep like the crescent in the sky, You flood the people's tears, What a conversation you've made, you've made a rose of thorns. As the turquoise soars in love with the banners, The furnaces are fermented with its tender breath, The children of the land were crucified, the mammoths, You honeyed the pain by saying every breath is Hhu...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0011par0091	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0009par0092	You laughed at the thorn when it was a rosebud. You roared in hard times, your name was in the language, You put sky knives in February darkness, Every time you took a step, you calculated the apocalypse, You lived a life that made your soul a desert, You laughed at the thorn in the green leaf. You didn't fall into the world thinking of death, You didn't make a zinhar for the big heart, You've never been bizarro from your ordeal, At the height of your patience, you settled the peace, Peace be upon thee, and thou hast put a rose on the thorn. Ahseni, you lived and flagged on the calendar, You've come all the way to the wall with the rank of martyr, And thou didst embrace the servants of Firdevs, the inhabitants of Paradise, When you went to your Lord, you burned the sun, The rose-scented Alperen thorn was a rose. And when thou wentest unto the Lord, thou burnedest us with ashes, and gavet us a rose, and gavet us a rose. My condolences again, God bless your place. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0012par0114	And I, Muhsin Yazıoğlu, bless the president and his companions, and may their place be in heaven. Congressmans, we have 20 members of parliament who have entered the system, and now I will meet the demands of all 20 of our fellow MPs, and then I will make no more promises today than 60. First word, Mr. Lightning. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0013par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. My call is to the Minister of Agriculture. First of all, I'd like to thank you for paying for diesel and fertilizer support. In countries such as Italy, Spain, Greece, our competitors in agriculture in the world market, agricultural areas have not been planted due to the coronavirus, and Turkey has had a great opportunity. To open the way for our farmers, to draft a decree on agriculture, to give support to increase the production of our farmers, to postpone farmers' loans, and especially to be released of lemon exports, which is now one of my main problems of choice, to make the farmer's face laugh. In particular, all of the cold air tanks in Ürgub (Urgub) and Mersin are filled with lemons, and there is no shortage of lemons for Turkey now, and new products will be released as of July-agustos. So now it's time for the farmer to make the best money. We demand the release of lemon exports and a postponement of agricultural loan payments.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0014par0124	Mr. Chepni...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0015par0126	Thank you, Mayor. Public opinion is that there are more outbreaks than reported, and that is the number of cases reaching TTB. TTB has announced the number of cases in the province of İzmir, one of the most common cities of the outbreak. The test was announced that the number of positive or suspicious patients was 700, and the number of physicians and health workers affected by the epidemic was about 75. Family health centers must be supported, lack of equipment and are delivered late. In order for family health centers to provide routine services, they must be removed from being the first to apply for the epidemic. The concern that family physicians will be cut off on days when they are not working is needed.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0016par0129	Mr. Fendoglu...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0017par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. 85% of the world's apricot is produced in Malatya, and the apricot core is one of our country's prestigious products. But it turns out that the apricot core used as a raw substance in the world's pharmaceuticals, food and cosmetics industry is not on the Agricultural and Forestry Ministry's secure plant list, which is tasked with establishing and maintaining and maintaining national agricultural policies of Turkey; there is no list: there is horse chestnuts, there is widow's weed, there is yellowpapatia, there is eels, and there is women's grass, and there is more Arab glue that is not grown in Turkey. But for some reason, there are no absorption seeds accepted in the world where it's useful. Isn't it odd that the Malatian apricot seeds exported to 51 countries were not on the list, even though dozens of imported plants are on the safe list? Isn't Dulavrat weed safe, apricot seeds reliable, Mr. Minister of Agriculture? Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0018par0134	Mr. Pilot...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0019par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. The Coronavirus epidemic continues to dominate our country and the world. The epidemic has affected many sectors in a negative way, as it has affected people. The measures taken on behalf of our people's health are satisfactory, but our tradesmen's work volumes have dropped. The restrictions imposed on exports have caused price fluctuations. This is the case with lemons and bananas, one of the largest export sources of our Mersin. With export restrictions, prices have dropped, companies have stopped buying lemons. Our manufacturers' lemons are in storage, and the price difference between the market and the manufacturer has increased. The contracts have been cancelled. The removal of export restrictions, the removal of the victims of our producers, our tradesmen, the encouragement needed for our farmers, the government's continued positive steps in this direction. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0020par0139	Mr. Aycan...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0021par0141	Mr. President, we expect the Ministry of Foreign Education to continue in a more comprehensive and remote way these days. Since high school entrance exams and university entrance exams have not been postponed in particular, these classes must be weighed down in order to ensure equal opportunities, high school seniors and college students must be well prepared. On another subject, we hear that the medical staff in particular have been exposed to the coronavirus. This should be considered an occupational hazard. In particular, the Law on Health and Safety is still not implemented in public institutions. Its implementation from this day forward is mandatory, especially in three days' time, for the infected medical staff to be declared a work accident. This notification will be important to ensure your future rights. I'd like to follow that up here.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0020par0143	Mr. Aydemir...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0022par0145	Mr. President, thank you. We are enough. A reassuring, peaceful excommunication. We're going through a netative period. It's a time when social bonding is going to be controversial. At this time, we're a nation that's shown the greatest unity in history. We look at the world from different sides, but when it comes down to it, it's our job to be heart-to-heart. That's why we call ourselves enough. The main thing here is to put hearts together. We know that our government does what it has to do on every ground. The measures have been explained, the support work is very obvious and are getting approval from all communities. The campaign that our President has launched is the relief that I have poured water into this fire in the nation. So let us leave those who preach in their presence and greet those who make their hearts yearn for their people. Anyone who contributes to this campaign is the nation's crown. We appreciate it.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0023par0148	Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0024par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. When the Coronavirus outbreak broke out, public opinion gave power an important trust and support loan. However, the lack of information has made the trust and support loan to power controversial, particularly the lack of measures that have been taken -- including late closures of schools, late closures, Friday prayer -- which are reflected in public impotence in health care. How long before the Minister of Health announced the first case was brought to Turkey? Is it true that previous deaths were recorded with pneumonia or other diagnosis? Is it true that all suspects were not tested due to lack of supplies and bed? Is it true that the test was positive, that the infected patients were sent home for quarantine? Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0025par0154	Mr. Karahocagil...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0026par0156	Thank you. With our president's coronavirus precautionary package, we hope we'll get through this crisis before our industry, our tradesman, our pensioner, and our entire nation are too impressed. SEC bonuses are postponed for six months, May, June, with the mayor and the VAT arrest. For three months, the VAT rate is down to 1% in domestic air travel. Companies affected are both delayed and funded by the loan principal interest payments for three months. Our shopkeeper's loans to Halkbank are also being requested for three months. The minimum pension is raised to 1,500 TL. Short work grants are being set in motion to reduce the cost of workers to employers. Adding additional $2 billion to be distributed to needy families. Two months of make-up work to continue the continuum of employment...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0025par0159	Mr. Gergerlioğlu...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0027par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. According to world standards, there are 300,000 prisoners in the 120,000-capacity prisons. There are children, women, men, sick, and old prisoners in crowded, damp, sunless wards. The entire community, millions, is awaiting a fair and equal execution law. Execution law talks must not be delayed. The execution law, which has been held for a year, must be taken out immediately by joining the prisoners and the political prisoners. Mothers, fathers, grandparents, children, all segments of society are experiencing a tremendous amount of anxiety, anxiety, for their relatives, who are vulnerable to the coronavirus epidemic. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey must take this matter on the agenda with precision and immediately pass the law. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0028par0165	Mr. Star...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0029par0167	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as you know, last Wednesday was the anniversary of Muhsin Yazıoğlu's testimony. I wanted to be one of those who remembered his name under the roof of the High Assembly. I don't think we should mention certain people's names undeterred. Muhsin Yazıoğlu is one of them to me. If there is a destiny and I do not transgress, I would simply say that Mohsin Yazbir son has bequeathed to us his example, as we were commanded. He was one of those who taught us to love one another, as the prophet Muhsin Yazıoğlu pointed out to the victor Erdem. Because the Sivasian Flame, which I saw at his funeral, walked shoulder to shoulder with a lady, and we cried together, and it was a very valuable experience for me. I remember Muhsin Yazıoğlu once again with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude. I salute the General Assembly with a lifetime of walking in the footsteps of beautiful people and a great welcome in villages where no one has gone.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0030par0171	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0031par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, once again, I say to power: we have millions of citizens abroad, especially in the Middle East, in Saudi Arabia, in Kuwait, in Qatar, in my hometown, we have 40,000 citizens, 40,000 workers. Dear friends, our citizens there are out of work. So they can't send money to their parents here, so their families are having trouble here. Our citizens there are now trapped and victimized. Every citizen wants to see the state next to him; we need to make a comforting statement for our citizens there, we need to help, we need to help the families here. So, once again, I would like to ask the honorable power, please, to help themselves out of the help they've been given, and to bring our citizens, our victims, our citizens, our stranded citizens, to Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0032par0177	Mr. Oztunç...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0033par0179	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask God's mercy to all our citizens who died of Coronavirus, and to our patients for immediate healing. First of all, I would like to say that we have a large number of workers working abroad, and we have workers in Kuwait, for example, from Kahramanmarash, my constituency district. About 500 workers are now trapped in Kuwait, about 50 to 60 of them are my countrymen, the Kahramans and the Elbians. These need to be brought to Turkey as soon as possible. For this reason, we call on the Foreign Ministry once again to bring our workers from Algeria and Kuwait to Turkey. Students have been brought in in many places, but we say don't forget our workers. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0034par0183	Your Honor...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0035par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. Five years ago, on 31 March 2015, İstanbul Public Prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz was killed in the line of duty by two criminals from DHKP/C. I commemorate the martyr Mehmet Selim Kiraz, a martyr who faces hard work, honesty, professional love and exemplary morality, and curse the villains who are anti-right, justice and humanity, and the empirical insurgents behind him. And when the sun is come, the darkness, and the truth, and the falsehood, and justice, shall come, behold, oppression shall be destroyed: and I salute the general assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0036par0188	Mr. Etmez...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0037par0190	Thank you, Mr. President. At the beginning of my words, I wish God's mercy to our citizens who have died of a plague on Earth because of the coronavirus, and to those who are treated with immediate healing. Libraries are full of the immortals of all civilizations, libraries are mankind's only reliable and lasting memory. We are members of a faith whose first commandment was to read. As the AK PARTY, we continue our work with the awareness that the light days will rise on the shoulders of a generation that reads and explores. Reading a book is not just a conversation with the best people of the centuries, but a journey into our future. Reading isn't just about understanding the past, it's about catching up on different ideas and understandings, drawing new ideas and visions and building the future. In this period of our stay at home, reading takes us beyond the four walls where we are. Happy Library Week, with the belief that the doors of our libraries will be opened again, that the good and healthy days are near. Stay home, stay healthy.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0038par0193	Mr. Arkaz...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0039par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey is one of the world's most advanced healthcare sectors, with over 1 million health armies, including strong infrastructure and 165,000 doctors. It is wise to increase the number of staff and keep their salaries on a high scale in order for our health workers to work more comfortably in the process that we are engaged in a intense fight with Covid-19. I want to thank all of our health workers from the health officer to the administrative staff, especially my fellow doctors and nurses, who take the risk for the Turkish nation and for humanity, and bring its night into the day, on behalf of my people. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0040par0198	Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0041par0200	Thank you, Mr. President. It's the season of production, the farmer's condition is miserable, the additional support package for agriculture needs to be announced. The cotton and strawberry manufacturer of the Enlightenment expects support and solutions. The manufacturer's Agriculture Bank and Agriculture Loan should all be delayed by at least a year without interest, and the delayed debts must be restructured by paying for three years. The farmer's energy debt must be stopped from paying agricultural support. Because of their production-related debt, there should be no shortage of energy or water. Agricultural inputs should be discounted. The farmer's diesel and fertilizer should be given a VAT discount. 2019 support payments must be completed. If they can't be taken precautions, production can come to a standstill. The farmer's voice must be heard. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0042par0203	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0043par0205	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, it is my fault that yesterday our dear citizens arrested Malik Yilmaz, my brother, the truck driver, and then left Süleyman Soylu, who later left after his testimony, and Minister of Justice Abdulhamit Gül, who was arrested from here. Because my brother Malik Yilmaz, my driver, said: I'm not retired, I'm not an officer; I'm a worker, I'm a truck driver, I'm not rich, if I don't work, I can't pay my electricity, water, gas, rent. If I can't pay for this, I'm dead of the virus, or I'm dead of grief if I can't bring the bread to my children. If you say so, stay home. We demand that all of our drivers and all of our employees, all of our staff, be compensated by the state. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0044par0208	Mr. Eyebrow...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0045par0210	Thank you, Mr. President. As our people continue to stay in their homes, their basic food needs must be taken to ensure that our farmers continue production by taking necessary measures. I want to thank our Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry for paying support to our farmers. In addition to these studies, our farmers' farm loans must be delayed without interest, the postponement of agricultural premium debt, electricity debt and agricultural irrigation debts, loan support for the production of banks, and the reduction of VAT (KDV) for electricity used for agricultural production. In addition, we must not ignore our employees in the private sector. And thank you for the support work for our workers. With new arrangements, our workers should be able to look forward to the future with hope. I agree with and support the President's National Solidarity Campaign, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0046par0214	Mr. Coachyugit...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0047par0216	Mr. President, the World Health Organization's pandemic of the Covid-19 virus is rapidly spreading throughout the world and taking lives. Why are the needs of the leading health workers not provided for in this epidemic? We're still getting information from many hospitals and many health workers that they're having protective equipment problems. When will you realize that this lack of health care workers risk their health and lives? Don't you see that due to these neglects, the outbreak of Covid-19 has spread rapidly among the health workers? If this situation increases further in the coming days, will the presentation of health care not be affected in the first degree? When are you going to solve this basic problem, when all the health workers become Covid-19? In addition, if health workers become Covid-19, it must be reported as a work accident and processed within the framework of occupational health and safety. That's...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0046par0219	Mr. Ersoy, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0048par0221	Thank you, Mr. President. Against the global Covid-19 epidemic, our government is taking intensive measures to prevent infection and spread of the virus. Our goal is to get through this process with minimal damage. In the meantime, the importance of staying at home is often highlighted by not going out unless necessary. This holy struggle is carried out by the great efforts and sacrifices of our PTT employees and other public employees, including our residents, our health workers, our soldiers, our law enforcement forces. It must not be forgotten that all our employees are at risk at this time. With the greatest risk of exposure to the virus among our public employees, the fact that our PTT employees are aware of their sacrifices, the improvement of their rights, the ability to become civil servants of college-educated distributors.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0046par0224	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I will now meet the demands of the Deputy Directors of the Group. Mr. Dervisoglu, come in.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0049par0228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wish the General Assembly a successful week. Yesterday, the President raised our nation to the screen with a hope, but once again disappointed. Like all of Europe's powerful states, the Turkish nation expected steps from the government to make its living or at least to make it comfortable to pay for its stay at home. However, Mr. President has once again shown that the government has not been able to spare enough money for the threat of coronavirus and has not been able to take the necessary economic measures. The state's vault has been emptied, the taxes from the citizens have been transferred into someone's pocket, the central bank's reserve, which should be used for these days and is also called shroud money, has been exhausted. So Mr. Erdogan said yesterday, the only way was by calling out to the people, I couldn't figure it out, so let's save yourselves. However, if a country uses the taxes it collects correctly, it will successfully overcome all kinds of difficulties and difficult days, no need to ask the nation for donations or to bring additional taxes or additional allowances. If this is needed, the fact remains that taxes collected so far have not been properly used. The government is proud to say that $50 billion has been spent on the Syrians, and when it comes to its own citizens in such difficult times, it looks for help from the nation, saying, "There is no money." Mr. Erdogan, who said that he could spend as much as he could to the Syrians at every opportunity, is sadly shown to have no money to spare for his own citizen.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0050par0233	Finish your words, Mr. Dervisoglu. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0049par0235	The other thing we're concerned about is the outcome of the money collected. We will also closely follow whether help is really used for those in need. Events that have happened before are still in our memory. The Lighthouse thing is in our heads. The fate of the money collected for the families and veterans of July 15th remains unknown. For these reasons, as a good PARTI, we will follow where our nation's sweat has been transferred, and we will never let the undamaged orphan's rights be denied. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0051par0238	Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0052par0240	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, our country is in a major struggle with the pandemic of coronavirus, which is declared a pandemic worldwide. This challenge is increasing its dosage day by day, adding new measures to the measures taken. In this framework, our government and the Science Council, which have been sanctioned, are making important decisions by carefully considering all matters, all aspects of the disease, all aspects of the epidemic. Our nation strives to make a maximum effort at the point where it obeys these decisions. At this point, I'd like to thank our entire nation for their sensitivity. At the same time, we see that there are a number of people in our country who act irresponsiblely while trying to do their best under these coronavirus measures. We strongly condemn these, in such a time of struggle, by disregarding people's sensitivities, our future, and those who seek to break these rules. We would like to congratulate our medical staff, our security forces, our employees in the work of poets, our death guard officers in prisons, all of Turkey's people who are volunteering in public spaces and voluntary organizations in all of Turkey.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0051par0242	Mr. Nightingale, finish your words.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0052par0243	Again, in particular, he announced last night that a National Solidarity Campaign, which we thought was extremely important, was to show that our nation was on the side of our state in the process, that the nation was united, united, and acting on a sense of commitment, was launched. Right after that, Mr. President of State Bahçeli Bey announced that he had contributed to this campaign. And we, the National Movement Party Group, would like to express from here that we are with our government, our nation, and that we will contribute to this campaign. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0051par0245	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0053par0247	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, yes, the Second Amendment of the Constitution states that Turkey is a state of social law. So, what's the social policy? It is the state that deals with the problems of citizens financially and socially, taking the necessary precautions regarding their life level, social security and so on. Well, millions of citizens waited hours for the president to explain on television, while the level of anxiety was extreme, while this anxiety was both life - threatening and without a doubt economic and future anxiety. The only summary of the statement was the public distress call and the IBAN numbers given information. At that moment, the public felt once again alone and unsecured. People can't even see the danger of the present corona, and they have to go to work, despite the deadly danger of the corona. Yes, the price of the palace to this country is 2 trillion, with 560 million presidents' salaries being used as part of the campaign, and encouraging everyone to participate in this campaign has lost meaning in this painting and has even declared completion. Turkey is among the countries where its pandemic is rapidly rising and cannot be moved forward. People come out of the house because they don't trust their government. He's forced to choose between hunger and the threat of corona. This choice is a deadly choice, and we need to finish this right now. Another issue, yes, is the need for water and hygiene on the corona agenda. Our trustees were postponing water bills, not cutting water debts, and giving discounts. What are the trustee municipalities and AKP municipalities doing? He's giving water a raise. Yes, Mardin Municipality is the head of these municipalities.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0054par0251	Mr. Beştaş, finish your words.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0053par0252	Mardin City -- let me tell you, our dear people -- in this pandemic environment, the MARSU has given a new increase in grid water, and it really shows how far it's come to turn it into an opportunity to fight the epidemic and get a runt from it. The citizens of Mardin will be billed double. I'd like to present it to the public and to the public and to the public conscience. Again, one of the trustee apps... we will never stop saying this because the trustee is an extortion, a coup d'etat, and last week the trustees were appointed to our Batman City Hall, and our co-chairs were taken into custody. Do you know what the first act of the trustee was? The removal of Kurdish service from its website and reworks have been launched on the unfinished and destroyed structures.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0054par0255	Your final words, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0053par0256	Thank you, Mr. President. This is a picture of the AKP's existing hatred of the Kurdish people and of the people. It's a matter of not being able to make a public call to a population that's in danger of living in the native language, and how it's being removed from the site, how this pandemic has been turned into opportunity, and what extent of hostility has come. There's another very important issue: the question of staying at home shooting the most women... the women we've seen die in the middle of the street are now subject to domestic violence and victims. As part of measures against the risk of epidemics across the country, the HSK made a very important decision yesterday: a decision that should not be considered as a threat to the health of those in charge of measures issued under Law 6284. What does that mean? To a woman, whether you're violent or face-to-face with death...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0055par0260	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0053par0261	That means we can sacrifice women for the corona measures, they can be killed, they can be violent. But let it be known that women can't be left alone with those who commit violence by ignoring their right to live. The absence of complaints from women who go to police stations and the decision points to a very grave painting. In the last month, 15 women have been killed and killed during the Colorado outbreak. This is one of the most fundamental agendas of women's rights institutions, we women. We never accept the legitimacy of violence. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0055par0263	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0056par0265	Thank you. Mr. President, I salute you and the Grand General Assembly. It's a critical week, and we're doing a national test on the pandemic of the corona virus, and we're struggling. Here, of course, the primary forces of the struggle are no doubt health workers, health workers. I express our gratitude and gratitude to them from here on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The heart and loyalty we owe them will last forever. But, Mr. President, of course, the skill is subject to compliment and compliment, and we must also say that the government's very partial measures for health workers are inadequate in its approach. Basically, it's the right practice to pay from the ceiling, to pay for the return capital, but in a practice, there's no such thing as being given a team of health centers, and there's no such thing as getting paid in the same hospital from our cleaning worker, the paramedics, the ambulance driver, the bank clerk, the secretary, the technician, the technician, the doctor, to the doctor, to the nurse, to the nurse, to the doctor, to the same risk and the nurse, when they're in that hospital, when they're dealing with the same thing, there's no way to get paid on the ceiling, and there's no limit to the doctor's no amount of paying. If change is needed in the matter -- the Turkish Grand National Assembly will again make the same sacrifice, the same effort, as it did last Tuesday, within an hour and a half of Mr. President's package, which allowed his proposal to be legalized in Parliament.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0057par0270	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0056par0271	I'll finish right away, sir. On the other hand, we boast that we have provided medical assistance to Spain, Italy, and what a wonderful thing. In that case, we would be very happy, but not to forget that hospitals have no medical material. They scream, family physicians -- no waste supplies -- no disinfectant, no masks. And we advise them from here, Mr. President, to be more sensitive about it, to listen to the screaming in these hospitals and family physicians. I'm just finishing up here so I don't take up too much of the General Assembly's time. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0058par0275	Mr. Turan, please come in.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0059par0277	Mr. President, the world has been facing a global epidemic for some time. As we've always said, while our government is taking antiviral measures, we should not neglect to take individual precautions and follow the rules. I especially urge our citizens not to take credit for manipulative and provocative sharings on social media, except for official statements. I'm sure we'll get through this with a lot of precision, without panic, unity and unity. I would like to invite all of our MPs to contribute to the National Solidarity Campaign, which has been launched for those in need under the leadership of our President. We call it "We Are Enough," Turkey. I know it's a debt of gratitude to all of our medical staff, our concerned institutions, who work with such thoughts with great sacrifice. Mr. President, the honorable MPs are today the 5th year of the testimony of our Chief Public Prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz, who was killed by members of the terrorist organization DHKP-C in the Istanbul Court of Justice. I humbly and gratefully remember our Attorney General, a man who stood up as a man of courage, character, and jurisprudence in the fight for justice. Mr. President, we are about to observe the oath ceremony of Mr. Adil Karaismailoglu, appointed Minister of Transport and Infrastructure. Congratulations to the Minister. With his experience, we thank him, of course, for leading the fine work for our country and our nation so far, but from now on, we have much greater expectations. I'd like to thank Mr. Mehmet Cahit Turhan for his important service to this day. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0060par0282	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we move to the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The President's decision on the appointment of Mr. Adil Karaismailoglu to the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure was issued in the Official Gazette 31082, dated 28/3/2020. Minister, under Article 3 of the Civil Code, he will take the oath of the General Assembly in the first joint meeting since his appointment. It is presented to the General Assembly's information. According to the statement read, Mr. Adil Karaismailoglu has been appointed Minister of Transport and Infrastructure. The Minister must take an oath before the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, written in Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to call you to the General Assembly for an oath.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0061par0299	Wouldn't it be better if he swore to the President that he'd be worthy of the President, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0060par0300	Mr. Emir, I don't understand what you're saying right now. If you had taken my word, I would have promised. I have fulfilled all your promises according to the Law of the Interior 60. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0062par0302	I get it. No need to understand, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0063par0303	He said he'd be worthy of the President.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0060par0304	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0064par0308	"I pledge the existence and independence of the state, the indivisible integrity of the country and the nation, the unconditional sovereignty of the nation, the rule of law, the democratic and secular Republic and the Ataturk principles and the teachings of society; I swear on my honor and honor that I will not be separated from all people's rights and fundamental freedoms and loyalty to the Constitution in the light of peace and national solidarity and justice." [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit01spe0065par0312	Yes, congratulations to the Minister, good luck. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0065par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet 31/3/2020 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. On March 30, 2020, Ciirt MP Deputy Director Coral Danış Beştaş proposed that the parliamentary research motion given to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in order to determine measures to be taken in prisons under the outbreak of Covid-19 of 6010 groups should be met on Tuesday (31/3/202020). On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Ayşe Acar Başaran, to explain the reason for the proposal.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0066par0016	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. As we know, in fact, in the last few months of 2019, there is an epidemic that the world has been talking about, but we've been discussing it too late and taking precautions too late, and we have a suggestion about the outbreak of Covid-19, which the World Health Organization declared to be the pandemic. In fact, some measures are being taken, but we have a proposal to set up a commission that is not seen, not discussed, or discussed, and how to take precautions in very narrowly disputed prisons? We're expecting all parties' support on this. Dear friends, as you know, the reasons for this outbreak can be discussed a lot, perhaps debated during the period; how did we get to this process, and how did this plague burn all over the world right now? But on the other hand, we actually need to deal more seriously with prisons from the most critical and most risky groups. There's a matter of equal execution on Turkey's agenda right now, which, of course, is a matter to discuss. In all prisons, right now, a fairer and more just execution regime needs to be sat down and discussed and discussed. That's what we want and what we expect. Right, we need to put that aside, and we need to have a more substantial discussion right now, which is that one of the risks of this epidemic is how to take more realistic, more decisive measures on prisons and prisons, and actually we need a broader discussion on how to preserve the right to life for the people there. Why are we saying this, dear friends? There was information that was released to the press today: Our Mazıdağı Co-Chair Nalan Özaydın was in Taros Prison before, who was transferred to Mardin Prison four or five days ago and has information that this virus has been detected, which means he has been infected and the test is positive. Now, some measures have been taken in a prison; here are the restrictions of opinion, and there are some restrictions on lawyers, but they're very clear that they're inadequate because not just families are going to prison from the outside. Look, the guards enter prisons with certain routines, changes, and the guards who leave this prison are in one-on-one contact with the community. It's a dimension that takes the outside contact inside and actually endangers the right to life and health of all those people in prison. Again, we know that these guards have been in constant contact with the wards in the prison. How do you come up with these contacts? So, it's a search, it's a way of opening the vents, it's a way of bringing in some needs. It's a matter of greater risk. Second of all, we know that prisons -- all over the world, but also in Turkish prisons -- have problems, where hygiene conditions are already very difficult. Again, prisons are where people are not sensitive to feeding, where people are taking the least advantage of fresh air, so these are issues that we can consider for reasons that increase the risk of this disease. Right now there are thousands of sick prisoners and prisoners in Turkey's prisons -- I'm saying the figures that the IHD has already determined -- but it's said that this is more -- and that there are thousands of patients and prisoners who are heavy 445, and I'm saying it indiscriminately. There are other people over 65, so they're in the risk group. Now, the discussion of prisons that are so risky, so vulnerable, is actually another debate over an execution regime that was planned earlier, which was in the AKP's agenda. Now, friends, once again, I would like to repeat: Mazıdağı Co-Chair Nalan Özaydın, who is an asthma patient, and there is data that suggests that he is currently suffering from this positive disease and is currently being quarantined at Mardin State Hospital. Why was he transferred four or five days ago, even if he was sick? And there's a very good chance he's infected himself, and there's a very good chance he's infected with this disease at the same time that he's brought it back to those who were brought in during the transfer -- it's possible that this disease has already become common inside the Tsars Prison -- the guards, the soldiers -- and the Mardin Prison as well. Which of us here, friends, can take responsibility for the slightest negative situation in prison when the risk is so great? We can be responsible. Who will take responsibility for any negative situation there, especially the power responsible for the right to life of these people? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'll wrap it up in a minute.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0067par0025	Finish your words, Mr. Başaran.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0066par0026	Thank you. All of this Congress is most fundamentally responsible for the right to life of the people in that prison. From that point of view, we blocked the interviews. When the lawyers leave, we give the lawyers masks, but they don't have masks, gloves, hygiene conditions. What measures do you take under these circumstances? As I was saying, when there's a possibility of a prison case spreading to all prisons, it's not really that serious, it's actually that far-fetched. So, friends, knowing that we are all in charge of these people's rights, I think we should discuss how we should all say yes to this motion, how to set up a commission with equal participation of parties, how to take measures in prison, how to protect the lives of prisoners and prisoners in prison as soon as possible. Thank you, guys.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0068par0031	Mr. Ayhan Erel. Here you are, Mr. Erel.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0069par0033	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The Aksaraya T-type has just been closed and open execution institution, and there are shortcomings. At the beginning of this, they would go as Ministry -- I'm sorry -- in a vehicle, but they're having a lot of trouble going to a place that's about 20 kilometers outside the city, where there's no public transportation, where they can go to work and come to their jobs. I'm here to invite the Ministry on a mission. Either have them send three or four of the ministry's overcrowded buses there, or arrange a service so that our fellow officers here can take the necessary precautions to make sure that our officers are comfortable and return to their posts. I specifically request this on behalf of 200 of our friends who work there. When we look at the most complaints in prisons: the wards are crowded, the beds are close together. With so many people in common areas and mess halls, social distance is unlikely to be maintained. It seems inevitable that the corona virus, which has also influenced the entire world, Turkey, will also enter prisons. Our Minister is trying to take the necessary precautions, sincerely trying to do something about it; he cuts off the contact of prisoners and prisoners, prohibits visits, removes transports, stops transfers outside of special rights, disease and security situations, again, work and business activities have been eliminated, and we see that people, prisoners and prisoners in prison, are trying to take the necessary precautions not to get caught in this corona virus. Again, the Council of Judges and Prosecutors, along with yesterday's summary, requests that the procedures of citizens coming to prisons for supervised freedom be carried out immediately in one day or not in prison. It's important to discuss how we can reduce the intensity of so many prisons. We all know that the schools are closed, especially in boarding schools, student dorms, student hostels, and we can reduce the concentration in normal prisons by putting people under arrest and convicted for certain crimes here? A study can be done about it. The people here are in the government's care. I think you should take care of the trust. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0070par0040	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Ali Mahir Aşır. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0071par0043	I salute the General Assembly. The world and our country are in great danger. The size of the Corona virus poses a major threat to all of us day by day, but the measures are either inadequate or late. Yeah, prisons... Today, there are around 300,000 prisoners and prisoners in prisons. The prisons are full of historical hails. Prisoners either sleep in turns or take turns breathing. Imagine, there's no hygiene in prisons, no doctors, no precautions. Health and physical conditions are inadequate, even in toilets, people line up in the sink while washing hands, feet, faces. The minister has just announced some measures related to this. Now, we're talking to fellow officers in prison. A measure of masking, hygiene, health code has been taken so far, I'm afraid. I've put it all aside. Today, there are 1,333 prisoners and prisoners who are heavy. Why don't you evacuate them? But in this country, the murderer of Sivas was evacuated months ago for medical reasons. If we're not evacuating those sick prisoners today, when are we? Everyone's locked on to the execution discount, waiting for him. He's not here this week, he'll be back next week.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0072par0047	He's here, he's here.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0071par0048	So, he's coming to the House next week, is he in Parliament now? No.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0072par0049	Yeah, yeah, they gave it to me.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0071par0050	Mr. Group Vice President, says there is. But Cahit Özkan has just held a press conference, saying sexual crimes that won't disturb his public conscience while he's explaining non-containment crimes. I'm very curious, what crimes do you have that don't bother your conscience? Which of your sexual crimes does not bother your public conscience? That's interesting!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0072par0051	We did as CHP said, we did it together. Don't do that, you don't know the process. Shame! None of them.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0071par0052	Now, the price of execution in this country... [[Whistling]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0073par0055	Dear friends, if you'll excuse me, this is Mr. Aqar speaking.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0071par0056	A reduced execution is mandatory, but I don't think it's gonna change anything. If a truck driver who says "I can't live in this country under these conditions" is under arrest, what happens if there's a discount on execution? What would happen if a college student threw, joked, and was taken into custody because of the president's speech yesterday? Yes, we listened carefully to the President yesterday, regarding the measures. Unfortunately, it's not just prisons, it's just that we've gone from social state to social society.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0074par0060	Finish your words, Mr. Successor.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0071par0061	In a strong, sovereign state, in today's terms, the state does not give the IBAN number. That government takes the IBAN number, puts money on its village, its farmer, its worker. My dear friends, right now, in power, social media, they've been hunting for the virus, about people's sharing, it's a shame. I say don't look for criminals on social media, you look for viruses, you help people, you think about hundreds of thousands of workers who get into the service and work in factories. Yes, help can be collected; where will the President use this money? I'll use it for 10 million workers. If he says so, let's give him the money, but he'll go to the general budget, he'll use it for the expenses of the palace, he'll use it for the money he's wasted.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0075par0065	There's no such thing as slander! Oh, my God! Be merciful, merciful...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0071par0066	If I'd known you were here, I wouldn't have said anything. I don't get social distance with you. I wouldn't really talk if I knew you were here.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0075par0068	Be merciful, merciful...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0076par0069	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0077par0070	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0076par0071	I don't know where to fix it. Mr. Yilmaz will answer now.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0078par0072	Yeah, there's nothing to fix.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0076par0073	It's all lies from beginning to end, slander, trouble... so I couldn't find a way to fix the conversation. Mr. Yilmaz will speak.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0079par0074	Mr. Akarir, do you want to talk about bullying?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0080par0075	I do, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0079par0076	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0081par0077	Mr. President, congratulations, by the way.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0082par0079	Bravo, Mr. President, you're acting in a fair manner.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0083par0082	Now, you said my word was a lie from beginning to end.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0081par0083	All of them... the execution package has arrived.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0083par0084	Now, I ask you, is this country home to millions of workers or factory? Is that a lie? Where did you spend your donations in this country for the 15th of July martyrs? Where did you spend your earthquake taxes?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0084par0086	Where?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0083par0087	Where did you spend the money you collected for the relatives of the martyrs who died in Beşiktas? Where should we trust you? Tell me...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0085par0088	Where are the people gathered for the 15th of July?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0083par0089	Yeah, I'm saying, let's raise money, let's save it. Explain this, for two months there will be no workers working in this country. People are still out of power. Is that slander, too? He's running out of water. You tell 65-year-olds to stay off the street. In my hometown, there are people selling turnips, guarding, selling tissues. Mr. President, I've made the lowest pension of 1,500 liras. Oh, that's great! God bless you! The minimum wage is $2,300 in this country. What's the slander? Do you think it's right to treat that truck driver? He threw a tweet.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0086par0094	But he wasn't arrested.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0083par0095	He's in custody. That's an arrest. He was arrested for two days. You're a lawyer. Isn't the amount of time you've been in custody counted as detention? Doesn't it count? Don't you know that?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0086par0097	Easy... easy...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0083par0098	You're telling me that you're lying. Don't you know that?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0086par0099	It's a lie that the execution package didn't come.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0083par0100	You know what I'm afraid of? I fear not man who knows, nor do I fear the ignorant. One knows what he knows, and one knows what he does not know. I'm more afraid of half-blind than he knows what he knows, what he doesn't know.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0086par0102	Oh, man, that was a big speech. Bravo, congratulations! Share it online right now and get a round of applause.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0087par0106	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Yilmaz Bronzeç. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0088par0109	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge against the HDP group proposal. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. Speaking before me on the stand, the Republican People's Party spokesman said I wouldn't speak without knowing. But right now, the law on the execution law has been offered to the President of Parliament, and you haven't had a chance to read it yet.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0089par0111	He doesn't know what's in it. Let him scream.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0088par0112	It's not right to lecture here without reading, without seeing, without seeing the proposal, not knowing what you've brought about prisons, not knowing what you've brought about the execution, it's not right.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0090par0113	I called the press conference, sir, the press conference. The Deputy Director of the Group has spoken.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0091par0114	Why is Cait Özkan holding a press conference?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0088par0115	Our Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services is helping citizens who need help from the state budget who can't go out on the street and work. Why is it so hard for you, Mr. President, for the benefactors to take part?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0092par0116	Why are the municipalities so hard on you?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0093par0117	I thought we were lending IMF money.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0088par0118	Turkey is enough for Turkey, we are enough for us, and through the solidarity of our benefactors, we will come out of this global danger hand in hand.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0094par0119	Guys, calm down, please...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0093par0120	We're calm, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0094par0121	Dear Yım, please...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0093par0122	Okay, we're cool, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0094par0123	We've got some seats in the back, Mr. Eaty.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0093par0124	This is good, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0095par0125	Mr. President, the HDP group proposal is a proposal regarding measures to be taken in prisons due to the Covid outbreak. Of course, our state, under the leadership of our President, is taking every precaution with all institutions and organizations under the recommendations of our Ministry of Health and the Science Council, and as citizens, we are endeavoring to comply with these measures. Together, we are strong enough to overcome this global threat. Therefore, we must not be discouraged in any way. Of course, these measures include prisons. Our Justice Department is very sensitive about this. In particular, so far, no cases of Covid-19 positives have been found in the prisons, and hopefully they won't be found after that.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0096par0126	There is... There is...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0095par0127	Prisoners who were first admitted to prison for the first time are reported primarily at the point of Covid-19 symptoms, and after they have been found to be healthy, they are also held in a separate room, not next to other prisoners, but 14 days in a separate room. All personnel, lawyers, physicians, etcetera, all are taken in by thermal cameras in large prisons, and other areas by fire measurers. In prisons, all open and closed opinions were postponed for two weeks, which extended for another two weeks. Preliminary leave in open prisons has been postponed, special permits. All joint activities in prisons - education and so forth - have been terminated.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0097par0129	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0098par0130	People are lying on the floor in prisons.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0095par0131	In an emergency meeting with prisoners and prisoners, wearing masks and gloves, behind windows, on the phone, a closed conversation is possible. Of course, there is a sensitivity to cleaning and disinfecting prisons. The guards of the execution continue their work without any contact with the prisoner and the prisoner and maintain social distance. The prison staff is out there, and they're in the proper places if necessary. Family physicians continue to come to institutions with the necessary precautions regarding the sick. The attending comes to the prison if he needs transport; the prisoner, the prisoner, is not sent to the hospital. All prisoners and prisoners are provided with personal cleaning materials provided by the institution. The transfers from one prison to another prison were postponed for two weeks; this was extended for another two weeks. As in all areas, all measures must be taken in terms of the health of prisoners and prisoners under state protection.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0099par0134	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0095par0135	In addition to these administrative measures, we have submitted this bill to the Parliamentary Presidency, which provides criminal justice through regulations made in the Penal Code, which aims to reform the criminal, ends the perception of punishment, and brings a permit to open prisons because of the danger of the Covid epidemic, and also regulates it in many other areas. I wish you well. I'd like to point out that I'm against the group proposal. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0100par0139	Mr. President, a statement, a brief statement...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0101par0140	If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0102par0141	Mr. President, I want a word, too.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0101par0142	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0103par0145	Thank you. Of course, our Mersin MP Ali Mahir Akarir didn't see the law proposal, and he knows he didn't see it. Ali Mahir Aşar mentioned a statement he made at a press conference held earlier by AK PARTY Deputy Chairman Cait Özkan. Cahit Özkan used the expression "sex crimes" that hurt his public conscience. Ali Mahir Aşar also said: "Is there a sexual crime that doesn't hurt your public conscience? Describe it if you have. You spoke here without knowing the offer, you did this, you did this. It's strange to say that. Furthermore, why does the charity help bother you? Mr. Tunç said. In the Law Proposal No. 50 to be discussed in a moment, I'm going to explain to the High General Assembly why it bothers us and why it bothers us and why it bothers us. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0104par0150	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0105par0151	Mr. Basaran, no bullying, I can't promise you. Excuse me.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0104par0152	I'll make a statement, not a tease. Mr. Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0106par0154	Mr. President, first of all, I've also asked for a statement based on 60, but in this case, a clear statement of denial and non-realism...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0107par0155	Sir, look, there's no bullying here.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0106par0156	An explanation, I'd really like you to excuse me from my position.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0107par0157	If you want word on behalf of the group, I can promise you on behalf of the group.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0106par0158	Mr. President, but his own speech...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0107par0159	I can promise you on behalf of the group.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0106par0160	Okay, let him speak for the group. I'll take my word for it later.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0107par0161	Here you are, Mr. Basian.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0108par0163	President, now, in my speech, I've expressed concrete cases, but since there's no explanation for concrete cases, I feel I need to ask again. One, there's a statement that the shipments have been cancelled, but only three or four days ago, Nalan Özayalın was transferred to Mardin Prison. Our Mazıdağı Covid-19 of our Covid-19 co-mayor Nalan Özayalın has been tested and is now at risk in Mardin Prison. Also, Kırşehir Type E Prison is currently under quarantine, that's the information our lawyers have received, and there is no explanation at this time. Another one: an officer was tested and tested positive at Shakran Prison. Now, if there are so many precautions, why is it common in prisons? Another sentence: none of these disinfectants are being distributed in prisons for free.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0109par0168	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0108par0169	Let me get this straight, Mr. President. You promised on behalf of the group.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0109par0170	But wait a minute, it is today.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0108par0171	No, you promised on behalf of the group, so let me finish my sentence.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0109par0172	Mr. Başaran, I know I promised on behalf of the group. I'll turn on the microphone to complete your words. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0108par0174	None of these cleaning supplies and disinfectant are available in prisons for free, people are paid for, and they're paid very high prices. I mean, there's been another talk by the AKP in wonderland, but that's not the reality of it. There's a great disaster coming, and as Congress, we're saying we should take precautions before we get under this great disaster. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0109par0176	Thank you. Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0110par0179	Mr. President, we're trying to avoid polarity, bullying, arguing because of the precision of the process. However, I have been promised not to give you any room for misunderstanding. Just now, I'd like to revisit the testimony made by the precious Deputy Director of the Group in case it's misunderstood: the package has been presented to the House, the sexual crimes have not been included in the package in any way, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0111par0180	Honey, we didn't say there was. We said, "What is the sexual offense that hurts your public conscience?"
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0109par0181	Thank you. I submit the People's Democratic Party Group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who do not... are not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on Tuesday 31/03/2020 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. It has been suggested that the meeting of the General Assembly of Turkey's Supreme Assembly Agenda (10/2621), which is part of the section for General Assembly Review and Assembly Research, should be held in the General Assembly's 31/3/2020 Tuesday (now) merger of the General Assembly for the purpose of organizing the doctor's work life and determining the measures that should be taken in order to determine the issues that need to be taken. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group to explain the reason for the proposal, Mr. Tekin Bingöl. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0112par0199	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Every member of parliament who's been on this stand for a few days, my friends and the Deputy Directors of the Group have spoken to me in a way that makes me very happy. They praise the health workers, express their gratitude, which makes me very happy as a physician. But what you can do is that for years, Parliament has been unable to show the same sensitivity to the negative conditions of health workers. We say, and there is a wall before us, and we suggest, and what you do is that wall cannot be breached. Now, we're talking about a pandemic that is destroying the entire world, turning our country into a place of fire. It's come to a point where even though there's a lower death rate than the epidemics of the past years, the destruction it's caused is incredibly severe. So, what do we do? Many, many, many serious, sincere suggestions were made, but I wish these suggestions had been considered that day, during the time of those suggestions. We said "test," and we ran out of feathers. Unfortunately, since it's too late for testing, we've reached a point where we can't avoid these cases anymore. Since there was no serious surveillance of our citizens from Umre, initiatives that encouraged human trafficking from the Van, especially on the border, are a number of factors that led to further increase in these cases. But there's one other thing: we're out of hair again, and this equipment, it's not really being distributed; the apron, the mask, the glasses, the disinfectant are still a problem, and in many parts of Turkey, we've got you -- that's a big problem. Look, there's something else, and we've always offered other groups to pay the health workers extra. Well, it's done. That makes us happy. Who was it made for? It's done to our physicians and nurses and labs. But, dear friends, there are patients working under those roofs, there are janitors, there are security guards, there are secretaries, and they're working under the same risk under the same negative conditions. So why aren't they covered? In fact, there are brothers who may be in greater danger than our physicians, who clean them up, but such discrimination grieves us. This needs to be eliminated. Another thing, family physicians... it's clear to everyone that family physicians are a very serious risk group, but imagine that when those family physicians receive reports, when they get sick, if they don't hand over their patients to a friend, a significant portion of their fees aren't paid, they're cut off. Is that a job, dear friends? After all, they are physicians, and they produce such serious services and are at risk. As you know, the early physicians are family physicians, but what you can do is, they've been treated like this. Now, we've run out of feathers again, so let's make quick adjustments for today about the health workers we've all praised, thank you, who are as important as the execution law. Let's unify this law of violence in health. Look, over 176,000 violent cases have occurred in the last six years. What about suicides? 180 health workers committed suicide in 2015, 129 health workers committed suicide in 2016, 122 health workers committed suicide in 2017. Why? Because they're under pressure, because they're being severely abused, because performance is seriously tiring them out. In that sense, with all these realities ahead of us, why don't we bring in the law of violence in health, why are we insensitive? We don't understand that. If they could just give us one reason why the Justice and Development Party won't take kindly to this bill we insist on, we understand.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0113par0209	Mr. Bingöl, finish your words.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0112par0210	Believe me, if it's a good reason, we'll withdraw this offer, but there's no good reason for it. We're just singing praises, just thanking you, just expressing our gratitude, but within the same days, there's an attack on those paramedics, those people who are trying to run an ambulance. At the hospital, our fellow physicians are being punched. These days, even on these days, when we praise, our health workers are subjected to such violence, and yet we remain insensitive. Now, I think what needs to be done is to put all this political perspective aside and vote in favor of this proposal. No criticism will come to you here, dear brothers and sisters. Believe me, your praises will be in return for those eulogies, and the health workers will at least have a better chance of working with greater morale and motivation in the process. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We've declared ourselves heroes, so I say we show our heroes the sensitivity we need. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0114par0216	On behalf of the Good PARTY Group, Hussain Anris. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0115par0219	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the good PARTI on the Republican People's Party group proposal. I salute you all with the utmost respect. In this struggle with Corona today, this motion to investigate the problems and losses of our physicians and health workers, which are at the front of the front of the front line, is even more meaningful. We all know that doctors, nurses and other health workers who work 24/7 are the biggest risk group. Dear MPs, the concept of the country's unity and integrity, public order and security is one of the most valuable and spiritual acceptances of the Turkish community, expressing those who lost their lives in the line of duty. There is no doubt that in the course of our time, health professionals who are trying to carry out their duties day and night, risking their own lives to keep our citizens alive, are also doing one of the most vital and sacred tasks for public order and public health. According to the world's examples, we are dealing with health workers who are suffering from illness during the execution of this sacred mission and, unfortunately, have lost their lives. While wishing that these losses would never take place in our country, the wager should not be ignored as to the sanctity of the mission of health members. In this scope, we believe that in the case of both the importance and the sanctity of the mission being carried out and the fulfillment of its sacredness, there is a change in the Law on the Law, in order for those of health professionals who have lost their lives during the fight against epidemics that threaten public health, to be attributed to the martyrship of themselves and their relatives in accordance with the laws referred to as martyrdom. In this framework, let the medical personnel who died while fighting the outbreak be considered martyrs. We have submitted the proposal as a law proposal to the Turkish Parliament, signed by our Group Vice President, Mr. Lütfü Turkkan and Mr. Musavat Dervisoglu. We're waiting for your support on this offer, and I've already decided to share it with you, so I hope you'll support our offer. On this occasion, I say we will vote to accept the CHP group proposal we discussed today, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0116par0225	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Omar Faruk Gergerlioğlu... Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0117par0228	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been caught off guard by Turkey, especially the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Justice; I'm watching closely, and he's caught extremely unprepared. The cases are undetectable, and despite all that, look, there's a statistic that's being released today, and the world is talking about Turkey right now, you know? With the number of 10,000 cases on the 19th day, Turkey is now ranked 1st in the world. On the 22nd day, Iran scored 10,000, and Italy caught 10,000 on the 40th day. This is a great danger. This is a very big proof that there are actually not enough measures taken. In fact, the situation is even worse. Look, I've been a chest specialist for 30 years, respiratory disease has been my area for 30 years, and I know very well that there are not enough precautions to be taken. There are major inadequacies in the knowledge of case numbers. That's ten thousand, that's a lot less, that's a lot more, that's one. Second, death tolls. The number of deaths -- let me tell you, as a doctor who's been doing death reports for years -- unfortunately, he can't get in until the final diagnosis comes in, so it looks like he's dying of respiratory failure, and there's actually a lot of deaths. Look, I'm telling the naked truth. Right now, our doctor friends, the paramedics, they're very nervous. ▪ We have to live to live. The applause is not enough, we feel like soldiers driven into a war without weapons. My fellow doctors call me. It's a very troubling situation, and it's a very clear fact that in a week we may not be able to find a doctor, we may not be able to find a medical worker. Look, the Turkish Medical Association and SES have some very serious work to do. There's no 50% triage right now. 44 per cent of health workers have not been trained and 28 per cent of health workers suffer from chronic illness. The number of surgical masks is 68 percent, not enough, and unfortunately, there are major health violations. Forty-eight percent have not been given training for respiratory hygiene, 32 per cent have not been given triage procedures and related training. Now, this is the painting, dear friends. It's a bad painting, and it's hidden. In fact, because patients in intensive care can't be tested 10 per cent or 90 per cent because they can't be detected, there are 40,000 tests a day in Germany, there are only 80,000 tests in our country -- there are fewer cases in 20 days -- and it's a very painful fact that we're still the top of the world. Right now, our fellow physicians are filling hospitals with nervous, panic-ridden patients, and if this crisis is not handled correctly, our hospitals will be paralyzed.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0118par0235	Finish your words, Mr. Gergerlioglu.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0117par0236	Now look, in all these cases, the Health Department says we're going to hire 32,000 health workers, but it's hard to believe that they're thinking about taking back 15,000 qualified, saved, experienced, HHK health workers. Look -- professors, professors, specialists, practitioners, emergency, intensive care specialists -- they've exported 20 to 30 years of experts, and they're going through a lot of misery right now. We will receive 32,000 health workers. They say that our friends will be inexperienced, of course. No one cares about experienced, qualified people. I can do serious, qualified studies on coronavirus, support vaccine studies. The health minister told me on Saturday that we will see each other. He said, "Whatever happened on Monday, they refused to see me." And look, it's not believable. And now, unfortunately, the health workers are acting today at Ibn Sina Hospital. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The cleaners are being held out of the health worker's class, and so the health workers are in great distress, and they've done an act to protest it, and five people have been taken into custody. We're supposed to be applauding these health workers. It's embarrassing. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0119par0242	You gave me false information.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0120par0243	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Here you go, Mr. Straight.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0121par0246	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath on a motion by the Republican People's Party (CHP) on the problems of physicians and the loss of rights. I hereby salute you and our citizens who are watching us on the screens. As you know, as in the world, our country is engaged in an intense struggle with the global outbreak of Covid-19. Our concerned institutions and organisations, especially our Minister of Health, have been able to perform transparent, intimate work by delaying the entry of this virus as quickly as possible, while the origin of this virus has become an epidemic in Wuhan, China. While the Covid-19 outbreak was seen in our country, the first package of support announced by our President has been reserved for all health workers, especially our physicians. In the process, all of our concerned institutions are doing their part to protect the health workers from the virus, who are in the largest risk group. As our President said yesterday, 24 million surgical masks, over 3 million N95 masks, over 1 million protective overalls, over 181,000 protective glasses have been distributed, and our Ministry of Health will continue to distribute stocks on this issue. However, as it began in our country, social psychosthetic lines for our health workers were established, and our Ministry of Health immediately initiated the necessary initiatives. For our health workers, they are also prepared to plan homes, pensions, hotels, and so on. As a physician, as a result of the information I've received from the field right now, I can safely say that our healthcare workers' overtime planning has been orchestrated to make sure that they are at least affected by the epidemic in the process. I hope we won't have to, but we've got enough health workers to get involved in the necessary situation. Our group also works to make arrangements for violence in health. As I end my words here, Mr. President and our Minister of Health, I thank and salute the health workers who work day and night, leaving their family and their children.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0122par0252	I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't... Unacceptable. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday (now) 31/3/2020, I would like to request that the following proposal of our group be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Vice President 174, 50, 24, 61, 65, 77, 78, 80, 81, 85, 107, 115, 122, 163, 192, 139, 141, 141, 141 and 29 in order of this section of Law Proposals 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 21st placement of other tasks according to this order. On Tuesdays 1, 2, 7, 8, 9, 14, 15, 16, 21, 22, 28, 29, and 30 April 2020, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday's mergers, without discussing the issues of control and other jobs from the Commission and other tasks from the Commissions are discussed and working in the joint jointly. It was suggested that it continue until 00. Yes, there's no request for a statement on the motion. I submit the AK PARTY group proposal to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be brought up. I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/1507) We propose that the amendment of the Law on Privatisation Applications No. 4046 be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda under Article 37. Engin Altay Free Engin Özkoç CHP Group Vice President CHP Group Deputy Chair CHP CHP Group Vice President Yes, it's Mr. Veli Agha who wants a word on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0123par0278	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, I wish you all the mercy of those who lost their lives in the coronavirus epidemic, and my condolences to those affected by the plague. I give my thanks and respect to all those who struggle in this matter, especially our physicians. Dear lawmakers, in the AKP period, we have seen that nearly 800 ▪ were privatized in 18 years, but I would like to share two of them, especially the sugar factories, as well as the agenda. In the past period, 25 Republican People's Party MPs have not sold sugar factories; sugar is a homeland, it cannot be sold. We have traveled all over Turkey, we have begged, we have begged, but unfortunately we have not been able to tell government, power, the AK PARTI. Sugar is not only sugar; sugar is bitter, sugar is alcohol, sugar is a homeland. Dear lawmakers, sugar factories have been privatized, and this poor poor country can't find alcohol to wash its hands to protect itself from the virus. What did he do as a precaution? As a precaution, he removed taxes, paid zero taxes, and Turkey, one of the world's largest alcohol producers, one of the sugar producers, is currently in the position to beg for alcohol from the world. Shame on those who did this, dear friends.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0124par0284	Mr. Veli, not at all.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0123par0285	Now, about another matter. Dear friends, what were we saying? The world is jealous of us.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0124par0287	Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality also distributes IBAN.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0123par0288	Trump has given 2.2 trillion euros, Merkel has given 700 billion euros, Macron has given 300 billion euros, Turkey has given 14.3 billion euros. He doesn't give money to his citizen and he wants money to pay for it. Dear friends, as the world lays hands on its people, Turkey lays hands on its citizens, that's what we're getting at. When the dollar goes up, the public will sell dollars, the people will help when the earthquake hits, the people will tighten the belt when the crisis hits, the people will give money when the plague hits. If there are people for hard times, then what do you need? That's what I'd like to ask you. Dear friends, now, the Ministry of Interior issued a statement last night that the authorities cannot gather aid without permission. Peoples' Democratic Party (CHP) municipalities -- including Ankara, İstanbul -- 11 Metropolitan Mayors launched a campaign three days ago to raise aid from their nation and distribute it to the poor. Now, dear friends, in this country, the foundation gathers help, the foundation gathers help, the Ensar Foundation collects help, TÜRGAV gathers support, collects foundations, collects the money of the martyrs on July 15th, those who drink the money of the martyrs in Beşiktas, those who spend the money of the earthquake in this country collect help, and those who spend the money from the CHP can't collect help. It's a mind-set as dangerous as a coronavirus. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now that the CHP has seized the money of Ankara and İstanbul municipalities, may Allah feed you. Also, they're threatening to raise money from officers, dear friends. They're threatening to raise money from officers, CHP municipalities are collecting money, they're trying to stop it.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0125par0293	There's no pressure.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0123par0294	Now, here's the thing, the Tank Palet Factory. Our beloved Sakarya MP, Engin Ozkoch, has revealed. In December of last year, he got away with this kind of cover-up, and the next thing we know, the national and domestic Tank Palet Factory is being sold. Who's it sold to? To an ally of your party, to the ruler of your party, to Ethem Sandzak. I don't know what you're looking for in this starboard family, what you found. Dear friends, then he said he'd partner with the Qatar Armed Forces. Look, with the Qatar Armed Forces... the Tank Palet Factory was sold to the Qatars... despite our actions, the shouting of Engin Özkoç, the announcement of our president everywhere. For what? To make tanks. Sixteen months have passed, 16 months, they haven't been able to nail a nail. What's he doing? BMC makes cars there. Dear friends, Tank Palet is the Turnsol Paper of nationality and nativeity. If a person advocates the sale of Tank Paletin, he's not national and he's not native.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0126par0297	Mr. Agha, finish your words.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0123par0298	Tank Palet is an element of the Turkish Armed Forces, and so is the Tank Palet Factory, whatever the second army is, whatever the battalion in Hakkari, whatever the soldier in Idlib is. Just as one soldier, one company, can't be ordered by another Armed Forces, if it's betrayed by this country, selling the Tank Palette is treason, it's treason. It's the Turnsol paper for everyone, for those who call themselves nationalists, for those who call themselves Indians. Let's see how local you are. How local are you? Would it ever occur to us to make an offer of law: "The military factories cannot be privatized, the marine shipyards. " You also made us do this. Let's say again: The people who sell Tank Paleti are the people who put the soldiers of the Turkish Armed Forces at the disposal of other armed forces, and they will be called tomorrow, just as they are remembered in history. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0127par0303	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0128par0304	Here you are, Mr. Bulent Turan.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0127par0307	Mr. President, I stress with precision that we have a common problem. Many of our friends, many of our parties, share these common feelings about it and develop a style that suits it. But a few of these individual friends from each party can, unfortunately, use a language that sabotages the entire process. This process is a common process for all of us. Who, for God's sake, does this talk benefit the country, health problems, the CHP itself, who does it benefit?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0129par0308	It's good for the country.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0127par0309	In fact, the best answer to why they haven't been in power in 90 years is this one on the stand. He doesn't raise this kind of person, he doesn't contribute to this kind of country. I say every day, every week, every year has a soul. We're dealing with a world problem where there are deaths and there are no distinctions between the CHP and the AK PARTI.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0130par0312	Go ahead.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0127par0313	The state has taken every precaution they can, and it continues to take, and we're considering all suggestions under the leadership of the Science Council. But besides, a lot of our businessmen, let alone a businessman, our middle-income, sub-income people, even come to us and start a charity campaign, our hearts, our souls, are on the side of it. They wanted to make us feel like you're on the side of the state.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0131par0314	You coerced a fundraiser.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0127par0315	France started a campaign today. That's what every country in the world does. Besides, it's not the first time I've had to do this -- not to be polemic, but it's not the first time a campaign has been launched in this country. Look, I have a document. There's even been a campaign in this country to make sculptures for cities that don't have statues, and there's even been an issue like this. What I'm trying to say is that the government captures a common language, and the citizen wants to meet with the government.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0132par0317	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0127par0318	At this very moment, our President invited the entire nation, and he said: "Patriots who desire to support this campaign, let them support it." I also shout from here: CHP has nationalists, nationalists, statesmen, not everyone has the same as before. So I would like to invite all our rational, discreet MPs to support this campaign, which says, "We are all together in our country, we are together." Istanbul City Hall deserves...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0133par0319	Why did you confiscate the money? Why did you seize the money of Istanbul City Hall, Ankara Municipality?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0132par0320	Mr. Agha, please, you've spoken, allow me.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0134par0321	Mr. President, an unlimited conversation... and I demand it. No, sir!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0132par0323	I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0135par0324	Istanbul City will raise money at a much higher price than the colls are worth, it will be free, but the state itself will launch a campaign itself, and you will be angry. You may not be able to help, but let's not get ahead of ourselves. You may not be supportive, but let's not slander. Mr. President, there's another matter...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0136par0327	We say don't force them, don't threaten the officers.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0137par0328	Mr. Turan, please wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0136par0329	You're threatening officers.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0138par0330	Can you please recommend one more minute of patience and democracy to Veli Ağbaba?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0137par0331	Say that again, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0138par0332	Mr. President, would you please recommend to Mr. Aghababa a moment more patience and democratic culture? He screamed for five minutes, even, and I watched him, worried about the social distance between us, screaming a lot. That won't be necessary, we can talk more calmly, we can talk more freely.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0139par0334	And you're yelling.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0138par0335	But he doesn't listen to any of my answers, and he keeps screaming from here. One minute, Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0139par0337	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0138par0338	We've talked about the Tank Palette Factory a thousand times, and we've responded a thousand times. To repeat the same claims without changing a word to anyone -- and these days -- is of no use to anyone -- I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0139par0340	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0140par0341	Mr. Altay, please come in.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0139par0343	Thank you. As the General Assembly opened today, we met as deputy leaders of five political parties, and we agreed on the economy of time, both considering the threat of the corona virus and the health of our deputies. I'm trying to understand Mr. Turan's defensive reflex. And there's a reasonable limit to that, because an hour ago, we had a meeting about the time economy, which calculates five minutes. I also understand Mr. Turan's desire to answer and be offended by the speech of our group's Vice President, Mr. Veli Ağbaba. But the House also has a code, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0141par0345	You tell that to your man, that manners.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0142par0346	Mr. Baser, please... Mr. Deputy President of the Group, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0143par0348	Mr. Veli Agha spoke for five minutes, Mr. Turan spoke for nine minutes.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0144par0349	Three minutes, three minutes...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0145par0350	No, you're wrong.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0146par0351	Guys, if you'll excuse me, please. Anyway... it's not nine minutes, I'll fix it.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0147par0353	Sir, what happens if it's seven minutes?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0146par0354	It's a figure of speech, all right. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0147par0356	Mr. President, this is not the right attitude, not your attitude. I also know your tolerance for free speech of political party groups through group presidents, and I don't think that's wrong; on the contrary, I think it's true, but I find it wrong to abuse it. Not your abuser, Mr. Turan, and in this way Mr. Turan has actually eliminated our agreement on the time economy in the background, which we don't find true. As a matter of fact, I've revised my ten minutes of speech, my right to speak on the substance in 20 minutes, and in those 20 minutes, I'm going to explain to Mr. Veli Ağbaba, even more slowly, why we have reason to this campaign, why we have doubts about this campaign, and why I'm going to explain to your witness and to the Supreme Council of Directors. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0146par0358	Thank you. Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0148par0361	I want to make it very brief by taking seriously the warning of Engin Bey. Today, as part of that agreement, we have not spoken in contracts or in our group proposal, today is the first time we've spoken. I also think that the vast democratic culture of Engin Bey will make up for these four minutes very easily, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0146par0362	Thank you. Mr. Agha, come in.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0149par0364	Mr. Turan spoke for about nine minutes...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0146par0365	He didn't speak for nine minutes.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0149par0366	I'd like to exercise my right to answer in two minutes.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0146par0367	About what? There was no bullying.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0150par0368	I never picked on him.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0149par0369	Mr. Turan picked on me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0146par0370	Sir?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0149par0371	You heard him, picking on names.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0151par0372	What did I say, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit02spe0146par0373	There was no bullying, Mr. Agha. Dear friends, I'll ask for the minutes. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0146par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't... Unacceptable. The decision has been made that we do not discuss the issues of control, and we move on to other tasks from commissions with the agenda's legal proposals. We will begin negotiations with Kilis MP Mustafa Hilmi Dülger, who is ranked in the 1st place, as well as with 55 MPs from the Market and Neighborhood Watch Act and the Interior Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between Turkish Parliament Speaker Izmir Bali Yıldırım's Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Palestinian State Government of Palestine-Turkey Hospital for Friendship in Gaza and that it is in accordance with the adoption of the Law Proposal and Foreign Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. The Commission report has been published and distributed with the number of 50 rows. The first word on the entire proposal is for Mr. Dursun Dervisoglu on behalf of the Good PARTY Group. Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0152par0020	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. President, as you know, has launched a campaign in the fight against the epidemic, which he called the National Solidarity Campaign. The president said he would donate his seven-month salary to this campaign, and we thank him, sir, as the PARTI. From the campaign, it seems you've made the treasure hollow in your 18 years of power, and now we're sending you an IBAN number. The citizens of the European countries, who you say are jealous of us, take care of your health, the money support is on us. You're offering a campaign to raise money in your name. It's not enough that our government pays all its expenses to donate their wages. Let them also forgive the flying palace of Qatar, and the ships of the sons, and the spoils of the coupon land.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0153par0023	This text is not yours, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0152par0024	In each package of support, all non-profit contractors with all the advantages, including tax forgiveness, would also like to put their hands in their pockets. Dear lawmakers, the coronavirus, which dominates the entire world, unfortunately, has revealed a fact that we know that we speak from time to time, but you always hide from the nation. The packages you announced the mufli merchant account revealed what a mess the Turkish economy was in. We see that the undaunted orphan's rights have also been extended to the estate. By order of our chairman, Mr. Coral Akşener Ma'am, we agreed to support the relief campaigns organised by the municipalities. Next thing we know, the Home Office banned him from the governor's office. According to a report I received before I went on the stand, Ankara and İstanbul Metropolitan Mayors have been blocked into accounts they opened for their charity campaign. In the district sent to the governor of 81 districts, the municipality's collection of aid was said not to be in the law, and investigations will be launched for municipalities who have decided to support the citizens and started a relief campaign. Hey, guys, you've got your charity in one hand, and we don't even know about it? The tradesman can't do anything, people can't bring home the bread. How can you afford to be subjected to this plague? It's not like holding a VIP Friday prayer at the palace. People won't let you go either way. Let everyone do their part. Because of this attitude, we can't do our part, nor should the municipalities of the National Alliance do theirs. I ask you to give up this step as soon as possible. It seems you don't have a problem with people, you don't have a problem with solving people's problems on this difficult day. You're treating the day like it's a day of political accounting. Don't do this. The day is not a day to do politics; nor is the day to save the day; it is the day to save the future. None of us should forget that we have to act consciously and responsibly. You can't feel yourself from the glass mansions you've isolated, but the situation we're in is extremely heavy and serious. Stop managing perceptions and decide to take the right steps towards managing the process. Even if you can't manage it, you can say, "This is all we can do." The government is not run by posing in front of gold-based air conditioning nets. Government governance requires seriousness, and it comes from displaying a will that can make good decisions. AS A GOOD PARTY, we strive to determine what we can do, what we can leave the right legacy tomorrow, according to the instructions of our President-General, Coral Akşener Ma'am. We also try to guide, open your way, and enlighten you at the point of what needs to be done in a sense. If you look at it with your conscience instead of a political agenda, you'll see the fact that the steps we've taken, the suggestions we've made, will be a cure for the problem of the citizen, but you're not acting with reason in this process, and you're not acting with your conscience. Today is not the day to talk about international agreements; we need to talk about what we can do for the minimum wage, for pensioners, for our dedicated health workers. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] AS a good party, we have proposed a number of laws to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Come on, let's all talk about these proposals of law, legalize them, and let Turkey's Grand National Assembly fulfill its responsibilities, give it a little bit to help our nation breathe. We're offering laws: immunity from income tax for our citizens who work at minimum wage. Two, all loans and dorms are suspended for a year without interest. Enlarge the scope of the requirement for short work allowance and reduce the number of bonus days from 450 days to 150 days; this is our third offer. The guaranteed transit fee paid for the bridges and highways that have been implemented by the do-and-work model is cancelled until the pandemic process passes, so at least the payments will be stopped until this process is over. Our fifth law proposal is that the costs of electricity, natural gas and water are met by relevant ministries until 1.7.2020, the removal of the TRT share of electricity bills, and the removal of services provided if electronic communications and invoice payments are delayed. Another law proposal is to reduce VAT rates from all products to one percent in the epidemic process, and another law proposal is to prevent violence against heroic health workers who are willing to make sacrifices in the process, to increase the punishment of violence against health workers. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if you won't agree to this bill because we brought it, then, as the ruling group, you bring it, we are prepared to support it as the GOOD PARTY. As long as we take useful steps for our nation. Let it not be forgotten that it doesn't matter who suggested it, it's to be able to provide a little solution to the problems of our people who are going through this difficult process as soon as possible. Do not say, "How will these legal proposals benefit anyone? " Don't polarize society with partisan politics. We've been polarized enough already, and we've been opposite each other. The government wants us to talk like him. As opposition, we strive to fulfill our promise to our nation. Being a nation is one in destiny, one in joy, one in sorrow, and one together. Now, perhaps even at this time, when we've been through the most troubled days of our history, social integrity and solidarity have been split in two from the center of society, at this point on the highest point. History doesn't forgive those who do it, people don't forgive those who do it, and above all, it doesn't forgive those who do it. May His Holiness not destroy our union, our union.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0154par0035	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0152par0036	May he grant us the unity, unity, and unity of the heart that will bring our nation out of these difficult days. I salute your high council, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0154par0039	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Kamil Aydın.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0155par0041	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute your grand delegation. Honourable lawmakers, as a country in the first quarter of 2020, we are internationally witnessing the negative reflections of a number of problems on a national and international scale. On the one hand, because we are transit routes, immigration and immigration problems and negative side effects; on the other hand, the eastern, southeast-based, earthquake and avalanche disasters in many parts of our country, and the painful losses in our country, and what happened before and after the Spring Shield in Syria's Idlib region, are the first things that have occurred to us that have caused us great pain and sorrow. And it's clear that it's inevitable that we should be able to think and act with national wisdom when it comes to the influence of the Covid-19 epidemic, which has recently become a mass health threat. For a while, as the National Movement Party, we have urged that we should be united and united in such unusual situations and act in a collective manner, attitude, behavior, and action. Now, once again, because it's the integrity of the country, the health and safety of the nation. There's nothing we can't handle with this kind of unity and the spirit of unity. Here we saw a concrete example at the Çanakkale Sea Victorys, where we celebrated, remembered, and understood the 105th year. Respected MPs, human beings are a material and spiritual entity based on their creation. So in some ways, it's the inner world, and in some ways, it's the financial world. So we have to follow the balance between the two, and we have to do some good work, because it's really, really, the healthy continuation of the person's ability as a whole in this world, the continuation of his life. Respected MPs, the Turkish nation, with its reflex of being a nation against disaster, epidemics, attacks, and plagues that it faced during various times in its history, you are not me, you are us. And by Allah, it has managed to overcome it because it is an honorable duty to protect the country, to build it or save it. The first degree of this mission is the institutional or systematic structure of the holy nation. So there's a direct relationship between the survival of the people and the existence of the state and its maintenance. So, considering this relationship, we'd like to focus on a number of issues. Yes, in light of talks from the bench so far, we have repeatedly talked about a number of development proposals in the High Assembly, some of the recipes for salvation, as an allied institution of the state of the Republic of Turkey, which represents the areas we've been chosen and is our top roof. Of course, that's what the government, the government, should do, but we think we should not neglect the needle ourselves while we stick it in there. Why do we say it? Because what we need to do now is, we're going to be held accountable for what we do, not for what we do, but for what we do, for what we do, for what we do, for what I say, for what we do, for what we do, for what we do, for what we do, for what we do, for what we do, for what we do, for what we do, for what we do, for what we do, for what we do, for what we do, for what we do, for what we do, for what we do, for what we do, for what we do, for our beliefs, for what we do, for what we do, for what we do, for what we do, for what we do, for what we do. So not what we know, not what we recommend, not what system, what prediction, what political interest or solution, but what we're doing here, we're living in extraordinary conditions that need to be brought up a little bit more. What should we do? What should we do about a very important health issue, which is so urgent that we have to deal with it? The world is in real despair right now, in a state of debacle, and believe me, we see very clearly in pictures how troubled the fate of some European countries is; bodies waiting to be buried. Now, in light of all this, what can be done by taking a little responsibility? We've thought about it, we've thought about it, we've discussed it, and we've discussed it, and our president, at this point in the first quarter of the year that we just counted, at the first quarter of the year, what can we really do? Here's one of them, you remember, after the earthquake in Malatya and Elazig, we went there with our friends, and whatever we had, whatever we could afford -- whatever we could afford -- we didn't have enough to eat when the neighbor was hungry. We tried to share with our tent, with our store. It wasn't enough, then, after the migration wave, for those of us, as the Nationalist Movement Party, as our president's prediction, what can we do in the form of concrete, flesh and bone? At least let's open up a nursery for the children there, who are about to freeze, and let's not meet with their cries. Now we're dealing with an epidemic. Of course, politics has problems to solve, and of course, we have some problems that the people of our chosen area face under these extraordinary circumstances. Perhaps many of them are general issues for Turkey to be addressed, but especially in the east, south-east, in areas where climate conditions are really heavy. We're talking about a region where the service sector is dense, where there's jobs, and there's jobs, and there's people who can't get their fees, and there's people who can't. Then what can we do? Of course, our state, the authorities, our government, is taking steps on this, but how do we contribute to this as soon as possible -- like salt in the soup? We are concerned. We're losing sleep, we're not comfortable because we know where we're coming from, and we know where we're going. We are truly the proud members of the great Turkish nation, adorned with Islam's morality and virtue. So, to avoid sleepless nights anymore, we said: "Yes, let us also have salt in this soup." Here, he needs to do something concrete to people who can't pay the electric bill, who can't pay the gas bill, who can't open his shop and run the supply door. A campaign like this has been launched for him, and we, as the party -- our general president, in his own words, made it clear yesterday that he was involved -- and we are making it very clear from here that we are participating. Of course -- my individual contribution here -- I believe that at least in the land of the brothers, Erzurum, it's really cold, and it contributes maybe $1 to people who can't burn their fuel so they can't add a new bill to it -- I have a conscience that it's my salary. If we don't do this, it's really gonna get bigger. So we want to say that we, as a party, are supporting this campaign. Of course, our government -- I've just said -- is taking concrete steps, it's going to take more, it's going to bring bigger projects into action, but we have to have salt in this soup. But instead of doing these things, aiming to beat up the farmer, really, in the name of politics, nor in the name of the opposition, sir, some predictions, a number of flaws, a futile attempt to achieve gain by focusing on mistakes. To make it concrete, from the other side of the world, from the United States, to the people who have turned even bad news about people's health into a sense of vengeance, and who have not had their share of humanity, we say, "Thank God we are not like this." What do you mean? I mean, they're trying to get revenge on a person's health, they're trying to get revenge. Sir, three different reports are being made from a hospital photo. A picture of a hospital somewhere, the same picture, three different emergency photos in three counties. We have friends who are doctors, and I'm from the academy, and we see each other every night, and we talk because it's kind of an ad for mobilization. Why is it an ad for mobilization? Let me try to illustrate a concrete example that I've been living with: I came across a foreign, English text, two letters from Erzurum, many years ago, by chance, and then it was translated. Sir, after the Ottoman-Russian War, I'm trying to explain to you from the translation of the two letters written by the Ottoman-Rus War, a process in which funerals can't be buried, buried in the snow, and a group of 36 people from the Scottish Church to humanitarian aid to the region. It was then published as an international document, and one of the doctors' grandchildren arrived, and we hosted and talked at Erzurum. They say: "We couldn't bury the bodies. Let alone diagnosis, diagnosis, and many of the bodies already had their skins stuck, and when we tried to remove their socks, the skin of their feet came with them; many of them had mouths, noses, and many limbs, because they were eaten by wolves. Spring came, when the waters began to flow, when the snow began to melt, and the melting snows began to flow red, and we lost 16 percent of the group of doctors of 36 because of the diesel, diphtheria, and other outbreaks. Now, for God's sake, we're under the roof of this great House, and we're saying it over and over again, so let's put our political debates aside, because we're not really at the point where we're looking for faults, because we're not really looking for faults, it's not the time to look for faults, it's the time to look for faults. So that's what you've done, and that's what you've done. That was the solution in the 14th century. Just like Somuncuoğlu, that's exactly what Ibn Sinai was saying to the nation in the 11th century, in light of the outbreaks of that time. Now, what can we really contribute as individuals, what can we do? Let's not applaud, not applaud, not congratulate, let's not say, let's not say, let's not put our political thoughts, our debates aside, and not really say, "We're taking it too lightly" here. Let's not say, "God bless," what do we do? What do we do? What, then, can we do to contribute financially to their material shortcomings, to look back and learn from our past and not live again? Let us consider their solution and solution. Dear friends, we have acted with this thought and emotion, and we have decided to join this campaign because I intend to put a salt in this soup in order to fund the bills that my fellow man at Erzurum could not really pay in Facruzure. I hope my Lord will lead me to his goal. I salute the High Council with these feelings.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0156par0055	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0157par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, the draft of the execution, which has been discussed for weeks at 3:30 p.m., has been announced. We're looking at another power classic. Last week, we were talking to the parties, and we weren't bringing our own drafts, we were going to get the opinions of other parties. After many years, they came to talk to us, and we presented our long views -- other parties themselves -- and we presented them in writing -- but they didn't need to give us any information, and they just talked to their partners, and they were facing a package that was no different from what they first brought. I don't know where to hold it. There's nothing to hold on to during this corona period, during the epidemic. The ruling party publicly tells the world that I don't care about the lives of my citizens. I don't take seriously the risk of the death of hundreds of thousands of people in prison, imprisoned or convicted, he says. The U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights is making a call: Please release the prisoners and prisoners in prisons. Italy quits, Iran quits, what's Turkey doing? He sees everything as God's grace, not this crisis, this corona crisis, this pandemic, God's grace; try to turn it to your advantage as much as you want, there is a fine line between death and life. We're giving concrete information. Right now we're saying that some sections of Kırşehir Type E Prison have been quarantined in prisons. Our speaker just told us that Nalan Özadim -- we're naming him -- is currently in quarantine and has been diagnosed with the virus. An officer in Şakran Prison -- this is official information -- is expected to have a second test, and the second is positive. We say: "Free your prisons. " They put the guards of the execution in prison. How can you be so out of touch with intelligence? Why do you isolate thousands, tens of thousands of execution guards from society? There's a way, you're going to release the people inside. You've banned going abroad, banned interstate travel, isolated neighborhoods, quarantined buildings; you know as well as your reputation that these people can't escape, that they can't escape, that there can't be such an attempt. There's unspeakable hostility here. No, sir, terror crimes are out of the question. Who's Terror? Who's the terrorist? Teachers, doctors, politicians, students, journalists, academics, writers; they're not terrorists. These, these people, are only in prison because they oppose the AKP. The definition of terror is now in the widest form in the history of the world. The only people who would consider it that way would be terrorists. The person inside is Selma River, Figen Yüksekdağ, Denizhattin Demirtaş is not a terrorist, Osman Kavala is not a terrorist; Mehmet Emin Özkan is not a terrorist; I can give you many more names. He's got a trial tomorrow, Elif is not a short terrorist. They just called, 70 years old, high risk group. Is that a terrorist? And that's what the ruling party does -- I'm saying the law -- is attempting to kill people completely. It's murder. It's murder. If you let people die with the corona virus, it's the return of the death penalty alleged to have been lifted. You're trying to kill those people in prison. That's not even hostility. We're talking hundreds of thousands, 288,000 lives, millions of people with their families, are they not citizens of this country? If it's not the citizens, say: "We've thrown them out of the country, and we're leaving them alone with the virus." The execution law is a death law, a murder law, a public attempt to kill people. We never accept that. Nothing has been consulted, nothing has been co-operated, only our opinions have been presented, and even if it has been shared with other parties, there is no knowledge or interest in us.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0158par0063	Mr. Beştaş, finish your words.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0157par0064	Now, sir, there will be many crimes. Our proposal was: First, let's evacuate prisons, maintain the right to live, other measures are taken by the courts; whether they give you forensic control, whether they give you house arrest, whether they give you probation, or whether they give you probation. That's the first step, that's the emergency step. It's like there's a fair trial, like there's a neutral, independent judge in Turkey, and these people are convicted. Yes, there are hundreds of European Court of Human Rights decrees. There is no fair trial in Turkey. The Constitutional Court has dozens of decisions. There is no fair trial in Turkey. Now, Mehmet Emin Özkan is 84 years old, and he and his two sons are inside because of the lies of a confessor, and he's in a high-risk group now with a fever of 37 degrees. Now, if he dies, will it be natural death? No, it's murder. The perpetrator is this power, and you'll have to pay for it sooner or later. Tez, when the road is near, withdraw this package of executions, and bring a draft of the law, which is fair, which can be applied equally to all, which will observe the principle of equality. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0159par0068	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0157par0069	This is your historical responsibility. While the world is struggling with the corona epidemic, while everyone is trying to protect their citizens, the government today says, "Sir, we aim to get 90 thousand people out." They're reducing the number of prisons. They're trying to reduce the population of prisoners and prisoners and take measures of their own. Something that's been on their agenda for a long time, they're trying to get someone out of here using the corona as an excuse. We're against discrimination, we're against inequality, we're against murder, we're against the death penalty, and we're against the way the government alone makes these laws. On this occasion, I respectfully salute all my friends in prison. I would also like to state that we will make the law of execution the most clear and harsh opposition in both the Commission and the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0160par0073	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0161par0074	Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0160par0077	Mr. President, dear friends, I've tried to listen carefully. Of course, like any law proposal, the offer of execution can be criticised, more or less. That's why we have the Commission phase and the General Assembly phase. We'll discuss it together, we'll make all the claims with it. Dear friends, like any law, of course that can be critical, but I want to correct two things. There is a quarantine in Kırşehir Prison. I want to make it clear that his claim is not true; we've just tried to get information from our friends, from our governor, from other officials.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0162par0079	We've been briefed.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0160par0080	If it's -- it's not a shame -- it can be quarantined against the corona, of course, but we have information that it's not now, so I'd like to share. Secondly, Mr. President, the speaker read some names and said they weren't terrorists. The court itself needs to assess who is not the terrorist, not the speaker or anyone else.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0163par0083	What court?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0164par0084	The palace...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0165par0085	What court?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0166par0086	There's Corona, calm down. Don't shout... easy...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0165par0087	A court that turned into a toy in the hands of the AKP?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0167par0088	They're your opponents, your opponents!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0168par0089	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, may I have your permission, please? Mr. Turan, complete, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0169par0091	Friends, he just read a list of speakers. I said, I haven't said anything yet.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0170par0092	Because you're discriminated against! You're leaving 300,000 people to die.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0169par0093	It's a very exciting group, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0170par0094	We're not excited...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0169par0095	Look, just so it's not polemic...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0170par0096	You left 300,000 people to die.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0169par0097	Mr. President, once again, it is the courts that decide who is the terrorist and who is not the speaker. Besides, we all know that there are people who are proud of us. So let the courts decide who puts their backs to terror.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0171par0098	What court? What court?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0169par0099	Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0172par0101	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look, your Group Vice President wants a word, so allow me. Mr. Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0173par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. The heart would want to make a truly neutral and independent judgment and judge who is guilty and who is not guilty. I'd like to remind them of this first: let them ask the President and the AKP President who say, "We'll make our move and finish the job." What's that countermeasure? What did they do to change the decision on Demirtaş? We know very well how Figen Yüksekdağ and Demirtaş were issued the second arrest warrant in Ankara with false documents. He didn't judge this decision, he made it with politics, the ruling party gave it to him, and for the first time in Turkey's history, for the first time in his life, he was released and arrested again for the first time in his life. Osman Kavala is being released on three separate counts, and a warrant is being issued for a new crime. In a judicial order that operates under orders and instructions, society has no confidence in the judiciary, and we have no confidence in it, but judgment must be left alone. And I don't want to put the judges under suspicion because the judgment is now under great threat of oppression and oppression. He gets fired, arrested, banished, all sorts of procedures, and then, sir, the judge decides. No, the judge doesn't judge.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0174par0107	Sir, for the record, I won't extend it. The courts know who is and who isn't terrorists, Mr. President, as well as the general majority of the nation.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0173par0109	We think he knows.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0175par0113	Vocabulary requests for the groups are complete. Now, the request for a word on behalf of Mr. Abdullah Coach. Here you go, Mr. Coach.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0176par0117	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, as of this moment, prisons have become literally a kill zone. The situation is so dire that now this corona virus has spread to many prisons and many prisons are now under quarantine and thousands of people in prisons are in danger. Dear friends, look, there are now 300,000 people left in prisons with 220 thousand populations, 300,000 people. Look, 3,100 prisoners and arrested children are now in prison. 780 children are currently in prison with their mothers. Look, according to the Human Rights Association's data, the 457 is heavy, so death takes hold, and 1,333 prisoners are now facing severe illness and death, dear friends. Look, I'd like to give you some considerations of this execution law that AKP has just announced to all Turkey and all the world at 3:30 p.m. Look, the whole world, all international organisations, the World Health Organization, says this global plague is a way out of this global disease, but you can overcome it through compromise. But what does this AKP government do? The AKP government rejects all environments that can reach a compromise among the peoples. What's he doing? Look, he's making prisons a kill zone. It's called the Anti-Terror Act -- TMK -- what does the Anti-Terror Act bring? He puts writers in prison, he puts politicians in prison, he puts journalists in prison, he envisions the prison environment for defence lawyers. The Anti-Terror Law covers 50 per cent of the basic Penal Code, 50 per cent of it. We can't finish here, dear friends, if we try to count their substance. The courts implementing the Anti-Terror Law are also under the influence of the current government and are almost determined by the influence of its power. The concept of terrorism has entered Turkey's legal environment in the 1990s, but has reached such a stage that anyone who opposes this power, who speaks to this power, who criticizes it is subject to questioning under the Anti-Terror Act, and unfortunately is being sent to prisons. Look, I'm going to give you an example, my dear friends: this government launched a campaign yesterday. The people who call this campaign "no bangs." They are currently under surveillance and raiding their homes. Look, operations are under way for people who resist, who criticize, as of right now. I'll give you an example from a recent date: look, Malik Yilmaz is a truck driver. The output has been taken into custody for criticizing the present environment. At the moment, valuable friends are taking advantage of supervised freedom, sent home with probation, released in exchange for signature. Look, do you know what Hatay County Commissioner says? After research into account owners who share provocative shares through social media, investigations have been launched into people who have been shared by TikTok (TikTok) via Twitter, who have shared a video that provokes hatred and hostility, and who is taken into custody to be taken to court. It's a truck driver. Look, look at what he was being criticized for. So, I'm asking this county police commissioner here now: did he open up an investigation into the people who caused someone to burn themselves in front of the governor's office because I'm hungry? Did he make a restraining order on the people who caused this? Is that what you do? I'm calling from here to Hatay County Commissioner and Home Secretary, is that what you do? That's the compromise? Is that what this is? We certainly don't agree with that. Dear friends, I'd like to share with all the public what needs to be done here immediately: absolutely and certainly, in the ideological sense, all friends who are imprisoned due to the Anti-Terror Act, who are being held as a set against people who are politically critical, must be released immediately. Look, in addition to this, the arrest warrants issued by the courts that lost their neutrality and independence in Turkey must be suspended immediately and people must be sent to their own homes. Look, the prisons are now a kill zone, a concentration camp. You don't like Iran, even in Iran thousands of people were released from prison, people were sent home. Look, what is meant to be brought in with this execution arrangement is terrible; it is brought in what is to be called horrible. It's a law proposal that leaves people face to face with death in prison, and we declare, absolutely, that he should withdraw immediately, and we recommend it here. Look, what should the measures be as of this moment? The executions of the heavily ill prisoners must be postponed immediately due to the condition of the epidemic, immediately. First, all prisoners over the age of 60 must be sent home immediately. People who are pregnant and with children must be released immediately. The children are prisoners, they must be released immediately. As part of the Anti-Terror Act, I've just stated that anyone who is in prison, who is a prisoner, must be released. Dear friends, these articles and these practices that have brought the principle of inequality to the execution in particular lately must be terminated immediately. In view of the exception of the arrest, all present prisoners should be sent home and no arrest warrants should be issued at this time. The right of view of the prisoners must not be restricted. Look, in prisons, the rules of hygiene and hygiene must be observed immediately and the necessary material must be provided immediately. Dear friends, sick, disabled, old, with children, pregnant prisoners must be sent home immediately. Look, people who go into prisons to prevent an epidemic must be warned immediately about the rules of hygiene that they must observe. All employees who have contact with prisoners, especially health workers, must be given protective clothing and taken care of. The institution must have regular and adequate medical personnel. All prison employees and prison relatives must be tested for possible symptoms immediately. In areas where opinions are made, measures must be increased quickly so that they do not violate the rights of the prisoners. Look, dear friends, not in ring tools, but in hygienic and healthy vehicles, transportation within prisons must be provided. Everyone, especially parents and lawyers, must be informed immediately, and their right to information must not be restricted in any way. Dear friends, of course, we also have a review of this in the government: look, in the face of this corona virus, the United States has come up with two trillion dollars, Germany 850 billion euros, Canada 500 billion dollars, France 500 billion dollars, Turkey whatever it takes from you. Unfortunately, this government is in charge of the public power of the civil society to raise money and campaign. Look, the relief convoys of our municipalities have been seized, hand. The trustees have been appointed, and the services of our municipalities to this community have unfortunately been blocked. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I demand one more minute of your time.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0177par0132	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0176par0133	Look, again, the Ministry of Interior has issued a generalization that has blocked the campaigns of valuable friends, municipalities, NGOs. Look at this, we have been informed that the funds invested in the campaign launched by Ankara Metropolitan Municipality and İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality were blocked by some banks; unfortunately, we would also like to point out that this is true. Just last week, a change was made in the Associations' Law, and what was done with the Associations' Law, my friends? The people who are members of the association have been tagged, the tag is set up. First, we tell you to withdraw the money invested in all these weapons, spend $5.4 billion on a covered grant in this community and avoid the waste of the palace. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0178par0138	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, no questions, no answers. The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Dear lawmakers, we're taking quite a break from the need to increase this social distance, which is when our MPs are sitting down. And that's what we do when we talk to each other, unfortunately, to raise our voice to announce it. That's why there's this constant, very serious hum, and it's annoying. I'm asking our friends who want to discuss something urgent, please, to have these conversations backstage, as well as the speakers, because they're breaking down. IN THE ACTIVITY OF THE FILSISTIC ACTIVITY WITH THE COMMUNITY OF TURKEY, THE PROTECTION OF THE FILSY-TROCY OF THE FILITIAN ACTION, THE PROTECTION OF THE PROTECTION OF THE PROTECTION OF THE PROTECTION OF THE PROTECTION OF THE PROTECTION OF THE PROTECTITION OF THE PROTECTION OF THE FESTITIONALITY OF THEIRS WITH THE REVIEWALITY, MADDE 1- (1) was signed on May 30, 2018 in Ankara, and the approval of the Palestinian-Turkey Friendship Hospital between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Palestinian State Government of Palestine and the Co-operation of the Palestinian-Turkey Hospital in Gaza and the Medicine Training of the Devri and Palestinian Citizens in Turkey. The first word on the 1st article is on behalf of the Good PARTY Group, Mr. Umit Özdağ. Here you are, Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0179par0147	Mr. President, it seems almost everyone agrees that the world will be very different from the pre-corona world after the Colorado outbreak. Basically, before the outbreak, before the 2008 financial crisis, the world was moving from neoliberism to nationalism, from cosmopoliism to nationalism, from one polarity to more polarity than one. The Corona outbreak seems to have sped up the process of change tremendously. Dear lawmakers, the outbreak will have short, medium and long-term, temporary and permanent consequences. State, politics, economics, law, culture, working life, civil society, sense of entertainment; in short, everything will change in large part simultaneously around the world. A transformation this big in such a short period of time across the world has not occurred throughout the history of mankind. The longer the cure is found, the more radical and heavy the effects of the plague will be. Dear lawmakers must be prepared for a state device that will first face the epidemic, first reduce the effects of the epidemic on the Turkish nation, then reduce its health, then economically, and then use its transformative effects to constructively transform. Unfortunately, however, we can't tell the world that we're just preparing for the post-infected world, just as Turkey can't direct the results of the outbreak correctly. We are facing a major economic crisis, and the crisis will not self-destruct when the health effects of the epidemic decrease, nor will it, unfortunately, become more severe. It is not possible to overcome the situation we face with day-to-day economic packages or to meet public needs with aid packages. Dear MPs, after the Varto earthquake, a group of MPs are going to visit Varto. An MP says after expressing his regret for the disaster to an old Vartoluya who lives in a tent: "We pray for you. " The Old Vartonian responds angryly: "We pray, you are the state, do your job; save us from this situation. In the face of such a global threat, civil society can organize and even organise relief campaigns. The state doesn't campaign for aid, it struggles with strategic planning. What needs to be done is to plan and implement a macro state with a fixed end, calculated risks. Dear lawmakers, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a veteran parliament ruled by the Institutional War in the great impossible. Our parliament has first passed a tax-supply law in order to establish the economic resources of war on the terms of the Institutional War; we come from such a tradition. I had a meeting and an opinion with the former Governor of the Central Bank and Ankara MP Durmus Yilmaz. Mr. Yilmaz noted that even in four or five years of war, the war was carried out within an economic programme, and that in World War II, England was able to finance the war without inflation as part of the plan by renowned economist Keynes. Dear lawmakers, if the AKP considers the future of the Turkish nation and our nation, it must address the issue with strategic planning, which is appropriate for the state of the Republic of Turkey, rather than the conservative, populist policies. It's time to plan to protect what exists, move the economy forward with minimal damage. We have to implement finance and monetary policies together, creatively and by the terms of the period. Dear lawmakers, you will allocate most of the country's resources to five companies, you will bring tax pardons to subsidised companies, and according to a report from the Anadolu Agency on August 18, 2018, Turkey is the world's most generous country in aid, with $8.7 billion in aid, you will note that it is the world's most generous country in front of the United States, which has given $6 billion to the United States, which has given $6,690m in aid in the United States, and you will spend $40 billion for Syrian asylum seekers according to your statement, but 52 billion dollars from the treasury, and when it comes to the Turkish people, you will ask yourself to help yourself. Because of the crisis, they can delay payments this year, but you will continue to transfer money from the treasury to the subsidiary companies for unusable airports and roads, but you will not take care of our unemployed citizens, our bankrupt tradesmen. Look, from 1986 to 2002, 67 projects were done with a do-and-do model. The price of the contract was $11 billion, 602 million, and the investment price was $11 billion, 127 million, and the profits of the companies were 454 million, some 4 per cent profit. Between 2003-2017, there were 158 do-and-do projects in your period; the contract price is 123 billion $286 million; the investment price is $50 billion, $530 million; the companies' profits are 72.7 billion; the profit rate is 147 per cent! These are government figures. Instead of raising money from the public, don't transfer money from the treasury to the companies you've transferred so much profit from this year. Dear lawmakers, the heavy crisis we face is not a crisis that can be overcome by the money collected with a three-and-a-half-month salary donation. What needs to be done is to activate large resources. So, basically, if you try to run the process through a charity campaign, as this process can't be run, in fact, the expression of a concordato is expressed in front of the whole world, which, in fact, as a member of the opposition party, we don't want to do that. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0180par0160	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Diryet Dilan Taşdemir. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0181par0163	Mr. President, I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, we have regularly called upon the people to stay in the house since March 11th. Despite the risk of losing his job, poverty, unemployment, the difficulty of living, in fact, one day when we turned around, a large number of the people listened to this call and stayed at home. So the community has fulfilled its responsibility, the government itself, which is now to carry out its responsibility. Because in these quarantine times, the governments, at least in the world examples, came out and said to their citizens: "Yes, you stay home, don't worry about anything, just think about your health. We're here, we're here, we'll solve all your problems. So, what happened with us? So far, no concrete, clear steps have been taken to ease the anxiety of society. For example, there was no demand for paid leave, no basic needs provided; electricity, water, natural gas, the Internet was not free; no measures were taken for poor people who had found 10 million. So, what happened against it? The president returned from the people -- what did he say -- we're enough. He demanded money once again with his eunuch. So he uploaded the coronavirus's bill to the public, and he transferred it to the public. So your understanding of the social state is limited to collecting money from the public. So if you really want to, of course, you can raise the money from the financiers around you because we know that you're going to spend it on them once again. Dear friends, in this country again, only the AKP can talk about everything, the AKP can act, the AKP can act, everything but the AKP is forbidden to everyone. Look, only the AKP can take precautions against the coronavirus. AKP municipalities can carry out all kinds of activities. The district can do anything, but the municipalities of HDP are appointed trustees. Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) district managers can't warn the people about the corona virus, can't conduct any work. For example, in Diyarbakir, the district executives, the party, who operate in order to satisfy the needs of individuals over 65, again, chronically ill, people living alone in the house, are being blocked. Why? Do you have a reason? We're really curious about that. Why is your opponent committing crimes when parties run your activities? You're making it sound like you're committing a crime. Once again, we expect you to answer that question, but let me tell you: Your obstacles, your pressures, will not deter us from solidarity with our people; we will continue to be with our people, under all circumstances, and to offer support to our people. Dear friends, again, there's a law of execution that's been debated for a long time. It's been debated for days, there's been a serious expectation in society, but one day, when we turn around, the mountain doesn't even give birth to mice. Whereas nearly 300,000 prisoners and prisoners expect us to have justice, equality, so in this time of the epidemic, in a time when you don't take away so much social solidarity, unity, unity from your language, they expect you not to discriminate, but when we turn around and look again, we face a segregation. So we ask you, how do you know who gets infected in prisons and who doesn't? We've taken precautions in the prisons. You say. We know you're not taking any precautions. There's an ulterior motive here, where the prisoners really want to be left to die. No one talks to us about the terror-mercy bullshit. We know very well that the concept of terrorism is a magic word for you. With this magic word, you put pressure on the opposition, your opponents, and you inflict persecution. Again, you're constantly placing another point in your tongue. What do you say? You're saying the judge is independent. In this country, we can once again explain to you thousands of examples of the lack of neutrality, independence of the judiciary. Judgement works on your instructions; judgment is under your duress. Therefore, decisions are not made so independent, neutral. And no one believes your claim. If that were the case, my friends... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0182par0173	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0181par0174	Look, he's throwing the tweet because he's criticizing you. Half an hour goes by, and the police knock on his door. However, the Tahir Messenger's case file lasted five years. Thousands of people are now awaiting a fair trial in prisons. So, what is the speed of light of justice? Only when it comes to you, justice works at this speed of light. In any other matter, the AKP is not taking such quick, decent measures, taking measures. Once again, we urge you to give up your segregation, 300,000 prisoners, and all prisoners are your citizens. You can't send your citizens to death. If you send it, you will be guilty in the face of history, guilty in the conscience of mankind, guilty in the eyes of society. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0182par0177	The request for a statement on behalf of the individuals is from Mr. Süleyman Nightingale. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0183par0180	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Speaking at every opportunity, Mr. President, who has been on the screen every day during these difficult times of extraordinary times, has appeared surprisingly three times in the last few days. In his first speech, he announced an economic package to the bosses, and in his second speech, he asked the citizen for money. He said he'd donate all seven of his paychecks as if he'd been gracious in doing so. Well, for the record, he never mentioned the amount each year that corresponds to a thousand-to-five percent of the start-up grant, which is reserved for him to spend covered funds. In the 2020 budget, he never mentioned 5 billion 410 million, 105,985 TL. Patient guaranteed hospitals, guaranteed passenger airports, guaranteed routes were built, palaces, ashtrays were built, but there was no saving the dignity of the state. When the issue came to the fight against the virus, public health and safety, the IBAN showed it. They couldn't help themselves, so the Religion came in. In 2018, a total of $1.2 billion in revenues, including 60 million in feet and zakats in 2018, spent nearly $500m on construction of mosques abroad, aided unidentified associations and foundations with $300m, budget 8 ministries, and most importantly, Dianet asked citizens for $10 euro, which is more than 3 times the health ministry budget, to share with your brother. I will either stay home and starve to death or go to work and die of the virus, who still has to work for power, poverty and deprivation. With what face does he want, which money he wants; it is impossible to understand. The AKP's government, which has been taking greater risks every day, has become like asking a citizen for money when the public's safety has been compromised, when the tradesman, the worker, has been forced to sit at home, when the citizen can't pay the rent and bills. They are so insincere that because they are not themselves, Istanbul and Ankara have banned the mayors' campaigns, which have been open and transparent for days. A funny claim, such as that the workers had no authority to help or raise funds, but in the past, the Istanbul and Ankara Metropolitan municipalities were able to organise and raise donations as they wanted, as the AKP was in their possession, during İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality Mayor Kadir Topbaş, the South Asian Earthquake Help Campaign. On the other hand, there has been an opening for the Foundation and Association of People who have worked for the benefit of the community from TÜRGAV to the Illim Yayma Society, from the associations that have collected aid for radical organisations in Syria to the Lighthouse, which have defrauded thousands of citizens, to the sects and congregations who have not had a clean record, and to collect donations and assistance without permission. The campaigns launched by two of the country's two largest municipalities who did what the AKP did not do in order to ease the economic difficulty of their citizens, needy people and employers who had to close down their workplace due to this epidemic are being blocked during this difficult period of time. I'm inviting power to care about public health and safety these days. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0184par0189	There's no question-and-answer on matter. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Yes, the first request for word on matter is Mr. Yasin Ozturk. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0185par0195	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we are going through the days of the citizen's hand to prayer, and the power to the citizen's hand to the citizen. I wish our nation health and patience, and salute your high council. Our General Assembly's agenda, unfortunately, is the international agreements that the citizen has had nightmares about living and starving. We have citizens who have to work, who are forced to work, who can't stay at home; we have employee workers who have no social security; workers who have no social security; workers who are afraid of being laid off; how will I repay loan debt after three months? The heart would wish that we could meet with an agenda to respond to the concerns of the citizens. The General Assembly is out of the country's agenda again. Of course, there are those who focus on the country's agenda, for example, Mr. President. In every crisis, the government, who knocked on the door of a citizen with an indirect tax, turned the crisis into an opportunity, and knew that this tactic would not hold, so it seized its second leverage, and began taxing the conscience of the citizen, saying, "We are enough for us, Turkey." If taxes so far were being used correctly, we'd be enough for each other, but we weren't enough. Our President started the charity campaign with a donation of seven wages; God accepts his blessing, but the heart would have wanted to have joined the President's donation, including those who had lost the tax debt, those who had been under 21/b, those who had no tender jobs, including those who donated Ensara through the Kızılay. Or even though they had high-ranking civil servants, he could have donated their wages to those who got paid for a few board members. If he could get a pledge from the five contractors he favoured when the package was announced. And Mr. President, if he could, in addition to donating wages, promise to prevent the waste, donate the plane that Qatar had given him, donate a few vehicles from the private ordered vehicle fleet, announce that the public would cease to rule only in the hands of the parkers and those who have completed their duties, the OSCE board would end their reign. Though our citizen has no pockets, his heart is rich. He's been depressed, he's had a flood, he's had an avalanche, he's had an avalanche, he's given all kinds of help when it comes to the Turkish nation, the state, the nation, the nation. He's done it in the past, he's done it again, and he doesn't question it for the sake of God, he does it for the love of the people. Will the treasure be relieved with the money asked of the citizen? Stop playing with the citizen's emotions. There are resources in this country, and if they can't find them, we can advise them. There are earthquake taxes collected over the years, money transferred from zoning and tax forgiveness to treasure, money collected from military service, unemployment fund. Don't pay for airports and bridges guaranteed customers for three months. Don't you have a ruling in your contract entitled "The Cause" situation? Stop paying subcontractors for this ruling. You took the Federal Reserve's discretion from him. Here's the precaution, use it. Are you expecting a harder day than today? What's up with your covered allowance? We've been offering laws, and you haven't accepted any of them. Free our citizens of minimum wage from income tax. Postpone all loans and dorms debts for one year without interest. Expand the scope of the requirement for short work allowance. Electricity, natural gas and water should cover the costs of consumption during the pandemic, remove the TRT portion of electricity bills. If the bill payments are delayed, the service must not be stopped. During the outbreak, reduce the VAT rate from all food and cleaning products to 1%. Consider our heroic health workers, who have worked and died in the process, a martyr. You didn't hear any of them, you didn't see them, you turned your back on your citizen. Our citizen needs a food package, but his priority is cash. The citizen will pay rent, water, electricity, gas bill, and in three months, he will pay the banks with interest. It's not enough to help citizens who are registered at the Social Welfare Foundation alone. There are criteria for receiving help from the Social Welfare Foundation: you will have no income, no home, no property registered to you. Now our citizen is in such a state that until 15 days ago, he had a small income business. We had the shopkeeper's shop and the employee, the salesman who sold at the mobile counter, the mothers who went to the homes and provided for her son, we had barbers, we had diners, we had coffeehouses where the pensioner spent time. We had tourists who were happy about the season, hotel employees who were hoping to bring home the bread for at least six months. The shop closed down, the tourist hotel closed down, some of the workers were paid off, some were fired. We have citizens who have the prospect of enrolling in İSKUR and finding a job and who have been robbed of that hope because of this epidemic. İSKUR has a list of unemployed armies ahead of him. The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services also has a list of our citizens from the SGK, who have received help without Social Aid. Since we're waiting for help from the people, let's give the money to this unemployed army in front of İSKUR. Besides, we have a list of our citizens from the SGK, so let's help our citizens in cash. And when these days of nightmares are over, let our citizen have some warm money to buy, pay his debts, and let the shopkeeper rest, and let him breathe; let both the barber and the vendor and the marketer breathe. Dear lawmakers, we're going through a period where a virus has wiped out all breakups -- rich-facist, famous-unknown, sovereign, ruling, ruling-opportunity. Neither the United States, which declared itself superpower, nor Russia, who competed with it, listened to the trade of China or Europe or Iran. The day is the day of unity, not dissolution, but there's still an AK PARTY government that doesn't realize it. Look, the mayoral municipalities that the government has lost have launched relief campaigns days ago. The campaign launched by Ankara Metropolitan Mayor Mansur Süçükşehir is called 6 Million One Hearts for Patience. (In the same way, the mayors of Istanbul and Ionya Metropolitan Mayors tried to take the burden on you, saying, "We are in solidarity." These campaigns were really interested, and the municipalities began to distribute the aid they had collected to the citizens. So, you know what happened today? The Ministry of Interior has announced that municipalities will not be able to obtain unauthorized assistance from the governorships, that there will be an investigation into unauthorized activities. We don't know who's briefing Mr. Home Secretary, let him take a look around. The 1st and 2nth articles of the Law for the Gathering of Help 2860 are open. The relevant clauses of this law determine the person and his organisations who are authorized to seek help, and for what purpose can they gather help? In addition, according to Article 127 of our Constitution, municipalities are not a person or an organisation, but a local administrative institution. Therefore, the law does not cover municipalities, nor can any law violate the Constitution. It is a privilege for the municipality to accept a donation according to the 15th Article (i) of the City Law, which regulates the powers and privileges of municipalities, according to Article 5393, and is a legal income in accordance with Article 59 (g) of Article 38 (l) which regulates the duties and powers of the mayors. The law is clear; it is legal for municipalities to receive donations, it is not subject to leave, the donations made cannot be confiscated, the donor campaigns launched by municipalities cannot be stopped. What you're doing is you're in charge, you're lawless, you're committing a crime. The City Code is not just a law set out for the municipalities of the EC PARTY. Mr. Noble, were you at Survivor, when Acun was helping? Where were you at the Farm Bank when he was collecting money? I'd like to ask you if it's free to raise money for the slap shop, forbidden to the city. I'm calling from here: if you try to do that, you hit it, you try to hit it, boomerang comes back to you. Fear doesn't help at all. Fear when it comes to elections, but today, let alone political anxiety, hostility, and be together. Today you're not me, we're all suffering together. It's not a day of politics, it's a day of putting your hands under the table. Lead the municipalities, there are lists in government records, give it to them. You know the unemployed, you know the orphans, you know the old, you know the disabled. As soon as we're done campaigning for us, let go of the emotional abuse of the virus, and don't use it to your political grudges, and find a way to keep each other safe without separating it. Oh, if you can't find it, don't worry, our benevolent citizens will find a way. The citizen is looking for the money he trusts, the place to sleep, you're looking for a place to sleep. Your donation will be received, the city will be searched, the authorities will distribute it to the needy. You really don't have a place to sleep.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0186par0207	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Ebrü Günay.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0187par0209	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the Covid-19 pandemic, in fact, continue to threaten all of our agendas and everyone around the world equally and indiscriminately. Of course, with this threat, the world has actually started discussing many things again. In fact, it's the way that systems, mechanisms, social relationships, many of the cultural structures are going to change. But these days, in fact, in Turkey, we have all seen once again something that is certain and clear, that will not change. We've actually seen this again in the last few hours. What won't change is that the AKP government left its people and citizens to die as a result of segregation. The disadvantaged, poor part of society is unfortunately not supported by power, unfortunately it is not protected; rather, more investors and supporters of power continue to be protected. That's not enough, you're trying to ban networks that are trying to form solidarity networks that are trying to support your policies in some way. Look, our municipalities, our municipal convoys, who brought help to the Elazig earthquake have been blocked, and now you're doing it again. You're trying to block our aid packages or our help to the needy, and in fact, you're trying to ban all social structures, which you don't control, that don't serve your interests. Now, there's a reason to be a social state, and that's actually to get a citizen's IBAN number and give the citizen the support he needs in difficult times. So, what's Turkey doing? The President of this country gives the citizen an IBAN number and says: "I need help, I'm bankrupt, help me. This state needs to be...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0188par0211	We're not asking you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0187par0212	Who did he ask?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0188par0213	We're not asking you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0187par0214	He asked the public, everyone. You give it to me.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0188par0215	They don't want anything from you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0187par0216	Will you interfere with the president? He's teasing me.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0188par0217	We don't, Mr. President, we don't.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0187par0218	Anyway, I think the president's a segregator. The AKP people are talking everywhere, they can shut me up from there, but I'll keep talking from here. Look, we have farmers trying to meet our basic needs these days where no one can leave their homes. In any case, despite the risk, they continue to produce to provide our basic needs, despite the risk of coronavirus, and unfortunately these farmers and workers are not protected by AKP power again. The prosecutor has a ruling that the farmers' support is not to be seized, and you know what happens? DEDAŞ, who operates in the region, especially in Kurdish provinces, delivers electricity with six, unfortunately seizes the farmer's help and support. The entire supply of diesel, fertilizer and seeds, given to farmers by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry for 2020, has been confiscated, and is being confiscated. It's called open, clear, opportunism, and more importantly, to tolerate it is to share in this opportunism. Another point is that in the struggle against the coronavirus, in fact, all over the world, gas, electricity, the Internet, and water bills continue to be paid by governments. So, how does it work in Turkey? Well, I'll tell you, the trustees...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0189par0222	Natural gas, do you erase the debt of electricity? That's what he demands.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0187par0223	President, will you intervene?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0190par0224	Why, no one said anything to you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0187par0225	The president, they're interfering, they're giving out my inhaler, they're doing it specifically.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0191par0226	Mr. President, we're gonna have to... Yeah, Cora's really...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0192par0228	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait,
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0193par0229	I mean, Mr. Cora, we were ruling the House in peace until you arrived.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0192par0230	Oh, come on! Wait, that's really rude, but we're saying something else.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0193par0231	Mr. Günay, please...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0194par0232	Cora has no sin, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0195par0233	And our preacher's out of time. You guys go ahead.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0196par0235	Anyway, I'll keep talking.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0197par0236	Mr. Günay, I thought you'd be talking anyway, but I'm speechless. Go ahead.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0196par0238	It's not a matter of imagination, Mr. President, look, the AKP people keep talking, you don't interfere. They gave away my inhaler, so it's that simple.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0197par0239	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0198par0240	He's the one who spoke most of the HDP, by the way.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0196par0241	While the world continues to fight the Covid epidemic, friends, farmers continue to produce in the region. Well, you know what they do? Grandpa, he's the grandfather you let go of, he's taking over their support. To condone it, to share it, to share in this opportunism. All over the world, while electricity, Internet, water payments are being made free...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0197par0243	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0196par0244	...unfortunately, the trustees you appointed in Turkey continue to raise water. The Mardin Metropolitan Municipality continued to raise water by raising the maintenance price of 2 per cent to 4 per cent at 100 per cent increase, and I can't help but say that the water flowing from the tap is muddy, although they continue to increase.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0197par0246	Yes, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Engin Altay, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0199par0248	Mr. President, I salute you and the Grand General Assembly. I wish that the corona virus, which haunts the world and our country, will be eliminated at once, at once, in our Parliament, then in our country, in the world. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, each of us, each political party, every political official and executive body, both demonstrates their good intentions and is trying to encourage the citizens with very good intentions and speeches. But one thing must not be forgotten. Unity is essential to the resolution of this issue. In the solution to this issue, it is imperative that we act in accordance with the spirit and climate of the time. That's what I'm saying. If it pleases the High Assembly, I'd like to complete the part of my speech from now on by addressing the President of the EC PARTY, the President of the United States. That's what I want for it. I can't say that Erdogan is ill-intentioned, but I find it very wrong to consider political debates and evaluations, even political dissolutions, and to establish attitudes and attitudes based on that. Mr. President has started a campaign, he can start it, he has the right, it's true. Turkey has things to criticize for the power and power of the state, there is a word for timing, but politics is very intense in Turkey, not only in parliament, but also on the ground, so that people have political dissolution, so there are some prejudices and distrusts. Now, in this case, I'd like to come from here: our mayors, especially our Ankara and Istanbul Metropolitan municipalities, also have a obligation to treat our citizens who are kept at home because of the duty and responsibility imposed on them by the law and the Constitution. Anything you can think of, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food. There's no doubt that they can do this with the resources of the municipality, but you can appreciate that the state of the Republic of Turkey, the state of Turkey, we're lending money to the IMF. The proud state, we've spent 40 billion dollars on the Syrian people, 40 billion more. The state that said, "If the Canal doesn't make Istanbul a private sector, how do we have this power now?" Of course, our municipalities are obliged to run for these benefits. The citizen looks for two things when he's desperate; one, his government. The state for a citizen is this: let my state be strong, let it be great, let it be far away from me. He knows that when a citizen falls into distress, he has a state to come when he shouts: He needs to know that. And the citizen knows that there's a mayor in the local area who, when he's trapped, can reach out, can heal, can heal, can live with confidence. He doesn't call these things out of the blue. Now, the citizen is calling out. Stay in the house. We call it. It's not enough, we say to make it work: stay in the house. It's over, you keep it in the house. Find a way to keep it in the house. But in this case, we're looking at a view. O Ankara Metropolitan Mayor Mansur Süçük, O İstanbul Metropolitan Mayor Ekrem Imamoğlu, you cannot receive donations from those who want to donate to your municipality to fight this virus. Why can't you? Aid number 2860 is against the Law of Gathering. I accept this donation as president of the bank for every donor. With an imamoglu, Ekrem Imamoglu, Mansur Süçük and other municipalities face each other with a ban on sending the letter. Let's all do it from a pool. It can be called, it can be asked. Sleepy, unappealable, but if that's what the President wanted, he should have been able to meet with the presidents and co-Chairs of at least five political parties with a group in the Parliament; he doesn't need to come to the palace, the House of Çankaya was too available for that. Mr. President: I beat this crisis as an AK PARTY. If he's going to say that, he can't say that, he can't. There's no point in making fun of people's minds, underestimating people's minds. The government will not defeat this crisis. If he defeats this crisis, the Republic of Turkey will defeat the state with its nation. (CHP and GOOD PARTY) This needs to be known. And I say this for this reason: Now, yes, according to the Law on Help Collection, our municipalities must apply to the Treasury to open a charity campaign. But it's obvious that already the stringing of flour will reject the demands of our municipalities. Well, won't our mayors help our citizens who have been crying out to them? It will, if necessary, be briefed on other services. Today, our Ankara MP Tekin Bingol -- for example -- wanted to deposit money into Ankara Metropolitan Municipality's donation account -- which was opened in 2016, which is not a private account, and not a private account -- but a good number; the bank said, "I can't take this; there is a block on this issue." Now, if you do that, even in a crisis like this, Mr. President, you'll be dividing society, dividing it. I said in a speech: Now, Mr. President, stay in the house. My father is a fanatic Republican, he doesn't listen to him, he goes out on the street out of spite, so I'm calling my father from these screens, stay in the house. There's actually a sweet message here. Mr. Kilicdaroğlu and Mr. Bahçeli and HDP's Co-Chairs have also called for Mr. President of the Executive Board to stay at home. Stay in the house. We agree on the matter. I'll help you or no one else can. Mr. President, everyone is doing their job. Look, we've been thanking you ever since today, and we're expressing our gratitude and loyalty to our health workers. The executive - Minister of Health - of course he's doing his job, and you, Mr. President, are doing your job, but let the municipalities do theirs. At a time like this, I want to help the municipalities, give a thousand lira to the 10 families who have lost their jobs, but have lost their jobs. If you stop this money, this help, this help, this charity, this sense of solidarity -- whatever you want to call it -- the nation will not accept it, and God will not approve.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0200par0260	Complete your words, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0199par0261	Mr. President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, when you put your head on the pillow tonight -- I don't know what time you'll be sleeping -- come and think about it for three minutes with your conscience, with the awareness that everyone here intends to put out the fire separately. As a member of the High Assembly, as a son of this nation, I beg you as someone who is politically opposed to you, I beg you not to allow a member of this nation to go to bed hungry at night. I beg you, Mr President: Come, give up your stubbornness, let everyone do their job, let our municipalities do their job, and remember, Mr President, when there is a fire, when there is a fire, everyone takes a bucket and runs into the fire.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0200par0263	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0199par0264	Mr. President, if I may... Our mayors have no intention of doing politics; just like you, the government, the administration, they have the desire to take a bucket in their hands and put out the fire with the big buckets that the citizens fill with a bowl. Mr. President, be tolerant of this matter, explain whether you will allow the application for a charity campaign, or comment on the 2860, with 5393 and 5216, and in the name of 82 million, I deliver the cry of 82 million on behalf of our mayors so that you don't stand in the way of the Supreme Assembly. When you go to bed tonight, I ask you very, very much to think about it for two minutes. I salute the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0201par0269	On behalf of the group, the final word is on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, Mr. Bulent Turan. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0202par0272	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. First of all, I'd like to express that I've been carefully, very appreciatively watching the Deputy Director of the Group's speech -- speaking with pure intent. Look, since this morning, every party has had criticisms and approaches on different subjects. But the issue, particularly, was the findings and examinations regarding this campaign issue. Dear friends, the problem in front of us is a common problem; this problem has no party, no ideology. Risk exists equally for all of us, so we're trying to continue the process with a more careful working pace, a more careful way. Our government has taken important measures, taken important steps. Turkey faced this problem much later than any other country. In many areas, it is a good example of the size of our government, especially when every person -- no matter which institution benefits from insurance -- will go to every hospital equally rich, poorest, deputy, bureaucrat -- to take advantage of the same conditions. In addition, Mr. President, dear friends, in the process many of our businessmen, many of our workers, many of our chiefs have insisted on campaigning for help from our party, our state, our various institutions. It was never a state failure, but it was a good example of state-of-the-art social bonding. It's not that the government doesn't have money or anything, but the government and the nation have shown a picture of us walking side by side in a big problem. So it's like there's only in Turkey, and there's no money left in the government's fund, so I don't think the criticism is right. However, many European countries have done similar studies. Besides, I have an official report, which is the best indication of how far our government has taken on this issue; when we look at the intensive care unit per capita, we look at 34 people of America, 30 people of Germany, 12 of Italy, 11 of France, Turkey, see, friends, 40 hundred and one percent of the number of intensive care units per capita. We are far more advanced in the number of intensive care units than in the United States, Germany, France, Italy. These are valuable data.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0203par0278	Because ICUs make money.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0202par0279	I don't understand, Congressman.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0203par0280	ICUs make money.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0202par0281	Are you uncomfortable with this?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0203par0282	No.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0202par0283	Don't bother, just say 'Bravo' for once.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0203par0284	Commercial activity...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0202par0285	You've done well for once. Say it. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) For once, say it shoulder to shoulder with our nation. It's not wrong. I'm proud of it. Not as an AK PARTY member, but as a member of this nation, please hear it.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0203par0286	If it wasn't for the money, we'd be proud.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0202par0287	Dear friends, we have no concern about the power of our state, but the rule of law is essential. Sometimes, whether we like it or not, even if we have trouble understanding it, the legislation may be in the way -- with the proposal to change all of us -- a barrier. Look, Mr. Group, I care about the approach that the Vice President has made in good faith, but I have to make this statement: the National Solidarity Campaign is a very clear example of solidarity that each member of our needs will support, which process and by way of assistance will be forwarded to our needs. We have a Code 2860 ahead of us. The law is a special law that only organises charity campaigns. The 6th article of this Law does not grant assistance without permission from the authorities, the foundation, the association, the municipality, etc. We can criticize them, and if the mayors are elected, he can do these campaigns with the relevant controls. We can say that again, but in front of us -- there's a law and there's a clause. According to this article, the ministry has taken the initiative, whichever municipality the AK PARTY member or CHP member or other party member has taken without permission. I'll tell you, individually, bringing up people who don't deserve it means raising them. So I'm not saying how well, but, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, we have a matter ahead of us, which may be a good intention, but I'm saying that this matter is technically in order. Confiscating. It's not about taking a step, it's about taking an illegal step. That's why I don't think that people who are interested in a good-willed approach are going to respond...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0204par0289	Finish your words, please, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0202par0290	I believe this issue will be considered free of political polymamism, quarrels, debates, and the best decision will be given under the rule of rule of law. Otherwise, everyone wants to help, everyone wants to do it to the foundation they want, the association they want, the municipality they want to do it to, and everyone wants to support it from one side and shoulder it and solve it. This is a matter of mutual interest. Just as we can walk shoulder to shoulder on this common matter, we can move shoulder to shoulder in the solution of similar technical issues. On this occasion, I reiterate how valuable the decisions made by our government, how valuable the steps are, how we can all do individually, how our citizens must pay attention to all warnings, especially in social distance, not in social media, but in different areas, to take the warnings from relevant institutions seriously, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0204par0293	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0205par0296	Now I don't know why Mr. Turan has taken his word. I didn't bring any criticism to the President.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0202par0297	On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0205par0298	I didn't bring criticism to the AK PARTY. But let me tell you something, the only time we're talking on the microphone is if the citizens don't know what they're talking about before you do, and they don't know what they're talking about, and they need to know that if you're so sincere, my message is probably gone to Fivetepe, Fahrettin Altun will be out shortly, Mr. President Ankara and İstanbul Metropolitan Mayors are giving the right opinion of our fundraising campaigns. We're going through a intimacy test here, instead of doing the honors, and we're all going to see it together. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0206par0303	The request for a statement on behalf of individuals on the matter is Mr. Murat Emir. Here you go, Mr. Emir.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0207par0306	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Mr. Group Vice President Bulent Turan has just stated that he understands this law work quite well. Now, let me start with a question, dear friends: How can the presidency launch a charity campaign? The only way such a campaign can be launched in the legal state is by the presidential decision. So, is there a presidential decision at hand? I'll tell you, no. Therefore, the charity campaign launched by Mr. President last night is not based on legal grounds. Now, without legal grounds, money is being raised on behalf of the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services, but it has no legal basis, my friends. Of course, since it's the only man's regime, you think whatever comes out of that one man's mouth is actually valid and consistent, but it's not. Well, in that case, should the President make that decision immediately? Yeah, of course you do. So, why are we hanging out with this? So you can say: "Ya, this decision comes out tomorrow, what's wrong with it?" But it doesn't, because that decision requires writing down how these coins are collected and how they will be spent. This is the same decision as the money collected earlier for the Elizig earthquake. And why is that important, friends? Because you're a government with a criminal record for collecting money and not spending it. July 15th, you lay on the money collected for martyrs and veterans, you didn't spend a penny, it's still there in the accounts.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0208par0309	Lies, lies.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0207par0310	You did the same thing with the money collected after the Beşiktas attack. Therefore, there must and must be a legal basis for this. So why would Süleyman Noble not be interested in the campaign that our mayors set up in the capital when there's a legal flaw here? There's no way to figure that out. Dear friends, if we call it unity, unity, we can only get out of this crisis if everyone's hand in hand, and everyone's hand in hand. If we say so, we must make sure that everyone has that opportunity. Therefore, I call on the interested to give up their jealousy for today's collection of donations since 2016. It's something that has to be solved. I won't dwell on it much longer. An important issue, dear friends, is that the Ministry of Health has stayed in the classroom on data sharing; it does not share the right information; for various reasons, misinformation is being handled and information is being stored on purpose. What information? First of all, the cities, age groups, and professions of our citizens, who have lost Covid-19, must be explained. This is important data to guide us in our fight against this epidemic. There's no way we don't know that in Turkey when the whole world knows about it. Thus, we find it not right to hide behind that law, as if there was a violation of the Protection of Personal Data Law, and to do a cover-up or a cover-up of your own. The other thing, friends, we've been saying it all along, do the test. You don't do what we say.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0209par0315	10,000 tests, less?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0207par0316	We're just getting close to 10,000 a day, but that's too late. Look, the world is talking about 30,000 tests a day now. You'll run tests, you'll find them, and you'll do solid isolation immediately. And we're late with the isolation, and we're being lax. We must and must keep our citizens in their homes with strict isolation. Wherever we see a Covid-19, we have to isolate them as soon as we find them, isolate them. Now, they're trying to get there before they're done, they're trying to walk in the dark, and unfortunately, we're failing. Likewise, dear friends, part of the lack of data, the lack of numbers is that sometimes tests are not done, sometimes they are scientifically negative. However, you know, according to our Ministry of Health's algorithm, the moment there are clinical findings and radiological findings, he's diagnosed with Covid-19 patients and started treatment. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm completing.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0210par0320	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0207par0321	But if they somehow lose their lives, they're not listed as Covid-19 minus. That's a reason. So we know that, in fact, this disease is much more common than we thought, that we are dealing with the tip of the iceberg. But only together can we overcome this problem by putting mind and science first. I invite the Ministry of Health, especially the Science Board, to hear more, to be free of political anxiety, and to have healthy and consistent communication. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0210par0324	I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't... Sustained.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0211par0325	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0210par0326	Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0211par0329	Mr. President, thank you. Congressmans, we've just given you some information regarding the prisons of both our Deputy Director and the secretary of the group, and now it's clear, and I'd like to give you this information again. Nalan Özaydın is our former mayor, who was in prison. Today, Mardin 4. He has just been released from the High Criminal Court by the diagnosis of "Covid-19." This is Nalan Özaydın, our friend was in Tarsus Prison, where he was transferred to Mardin Prison. So we pointed today, and you said no, but look into it. It means that there was one person diagnosed in the prisons of Tarsus and Mardin with Covid-19, and we don't know how far that leads, and you need to look into it. So the problem with prisons is serious, it's big, so don't underestimate it, we want to tell you not to ignore the information we've given you. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0212par0333	Yes, Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0213par0335	Mr. President, regardless of his guilt, his judgment, his ideology, a person in prison is in the hands of the state. So every health issue must be carefully followed. Mr. Group Vice President probably wasn't in that meeting, so we gave him this information for Kırşehir, but if it's like they say, we'll talk about it, we'll reassess it. There's a statement from our Minister of Justice. We're very sensitive about this, we don't policy on human lives, we're more sensitive to human lives. If such a thing exists, of course, the Ministry of Health and Justice will make it necessary, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0212par0337	Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0214par0339	Thank you, Mr. President. A moment ago, your friend, your deputy friend, came to us and asked us about this information. Yeah, we told you, and I remind you of that, and it's new, so, Mardin 4. Since the High Criminal Court has been diagnosed, it's Covid-19, so I specifically wanted to emphasize it again. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit03spe0215par0342	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0215par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal No. 50. The commission is in place. MADDE 3- (1) The President governs these laws. On behalf of the groups, the first word on the matter is for Mr. İsmail Tatüoğlu on behalf of the Good PARTI Group. Here you go, Mr. Tastyoglu.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0216par0012	Mr. President, members of our Parliament, there's a problem for you to be working in Parliament at a time when there's a great deal of concern, and we're in the process of discussing legislation in this framework. Now we're negotiating and debate over an international agreement, and we're also facing an international threat. We were just chatting with Mr. Secretary, and we said, "Well, I guess after this crisis, half of what we're talking about in the world will go to waste, and maybe half of what we're talking about won't be on the political stage or on the civil society stage anymore. What's this about? Of course, we are really talking about the greatest threat perception since World War II. It affects the whole world and all the countries. In this framework, all countries have to do their homework, and they're trying to do their homework the best way they can, to create common intelligence and to stimulate resources. We've had a series of meetings like this, and as a good party, we have five basic priorities for our own homework. Here are the first five problems for today: First: open information and lack of data in health, transparency. The concerns in this matter need to be completely resolved. Second: to ensure that these economic actors remain in the economic field, while the industry, the tradesman, the farmer, and the COBI first eliminates the lack of cash and then the lack of income. Third: the households prevent stopping the economy from falling in income and then removing the worry of living after a step. Fourth: We see that the chaos and pollution of information in public administration, which we are now witnessing, is an important element, a problem. And the fifth, we think we're aware that food supply is a very serious threat in the event of the crisis. These are our top five priority issues as good parties. Very dear friends, since this morning -- when we look at a little bit of the subject -- we're really taking our priorities a little bit by surprise. What are we discussing? We're discussing the assistance of the municipalities and the president's charity campaign, depending on this. Of course it'll come to that. Because after the cash flow, lack of income, there's going to be a shortage of income, there's going to be trouble with the bread, and then there's going to be a time for these charity campaigns. Our nation has always done it and done its duty, always. Look, very recently, when we put the numbers on top of each other, there's a $650 million figure. 309 million dollars gathered for July 15th, 168 million gathered for Idlib, 73 million again in the media, 100 million gathered for the earthquake zone, but there's still no clear information on where it was used. Look, we visited Sinop. We met with the President of the Sinop Chamber of Commerce the other day -- I don't know if there's a Sinop MP -- a citizen whose child we lost in the terrorist incident in Beşiktaş, Istanbul, and he said: "I don't need it, but if he finds me, I'll give scholarships to the students instead of my child." This money, 309 million lira, has yet to find one of the martyrs and veterans of July 15th. Yes, this money is eaten, eaten, flown, and we're not saying that the sum is $650 million; that's how much we've collected, $1 billion, $300 million. So, what do you need from Turkey? Friends, there's no need to twist the subject; the state must place a minimum of $400 billion on the table, as a resource, because the cost of this is between 8 per cent and 10 per cent of the national income of all countries. Turkey, which is a 4.8 trillion GDP, should put up a minimum $400 billion budget, and the state should do it. The government has things to do today. Why is there a state today? We are in a place where society will look for the answer to the question. Why do social security institutions exist today? We are where we will look for the answer to the question. Otherwise, this shouldn't be a Turkey where the presidency or the government and municipalities will compete. I mean, it's, unfortunately, a role grab. In the morning, after Mr. President Coral Akşener had given his three-month salary to the municipalities, we came across something like this. Look, these are the things that the AK PARTI complained about in the early days. That's a lot of background. That's what Mr. President's first statement on March 19th is, it's incomplete, it's not a common mind. Loud and clear, Mr. President, like the stuttering commander, when the order for the attack is received, the war is over. It's a compact, there's no all-resolving materials. Look, the most important sanction of all is one short work grant. Look, it's a model developed in 1999 based on unemployment insurance, which we already have. What did we do? Yeah, we did the right thing, we stretched the terms. Other than that, there's nothing serious. Now it's a $10,000 loan for people with regular income under 5,000 liras. There's already this loan, and banks go after microcredits like this. There's no government here. Look, guys, this is where the government's share should be: we have 3 million,150,000 COBI. He's got 13,500,000 employees, except the owners. They're doing it. The government must provide a minimum amount of ten thousand lira per person working for the SME, and a loan for the order. That's 135 billion liras, not a lot of money, when we look at the volume of Turkey's loan. If he loans it for a year without interest, it costs $12 billion, maybe $10 billion. I mean, $1.5 billion is going to cost you, but it's going to pay off 135 billion. If 25 people work, the COBI will have a $250,000 loan and will use it wherever it needs it. That's how the world does it. Or else today, unfortunately, we're dealing with municipal aid packages. Don't you want a city to help the needy, the poor? If these municipalities had been in the AK PARTY before, would we object? Whoever's doing this is doing it wrong, say it on your conscience. We're very good at saying things we don't believe in. Especially these days, we're saying things we don't believe in. Now, dear friends, international agreement... what's the most important thing in international agreements, Mr. Secretary? It's trust. No matter what Turkey does, in order for what it does to be effective, there has to be a trust-building administration on this floor, not in today's administration. There's talk of printing money. Yes, it's true, money has to be printed and printed, but it's effective for rulesy economies. It's not effective in the economies the government is working to make money for. You'll see where the costs go. For that, you have to move to a very urgent structure to create a common mind. What we see is that our Parliament, on January 30th, wish it hadn't rejected the motion to investigate the corona virus that we brought to Parliament's agenda, had it been handled as Parliament from January 30th, and had the measures taken accordingly, the road would have been taken early.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0217par0026	Finish your words, Mr. Tastyoglu.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0216par0027	So, at this point, we're here with a more common mind, not with a lack of intelligence, not with policies that have been done so far, not with poor reading, but with... look, you're all here, you're all here, you're all here, you're working at all these risks, you're working at our priorities. Is this international work the priority agenda of Parliament today? We are a Parliament that lacks its priorities. We can't go with the missing mind, we need to move the common mind. I wish you all the best in the world and in the hope that our nation and all of humanity will survive this corona virus with the slightest amount of damage.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0217par0030	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Zuleyha Gülim. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0218par0033	Yes, the coronavirus affects the health of the entire community, not only in Turkey, but throughout the world. It's true that we have a common problem, but unfortunately we don't share solutions or priorities. We never co-operated with power in that sense, because in the policies before this, as in today's policies, the power has always been the legacy of its own power that it wants to save, and only the rich. And today, in fact, when we look at the measures taken by power, we see nothing beyond a political line that protects capital and protects its supporters again. There's nothing for the people here, nothing for the poor, no support for workers, women, young people, college students. There's a power that hasn't been transparent from the beginning, trying to hide everything, pretending to take precautions, but not taking proper precautions, because it seems that what dies is ours. So, who's going to provide that? Under these conditions, those who survive under the conditions of the worker who says "I am hungry." In the conditions of violence against women, of course, only the rich and the AKP will have its own power. That's why we're not partners in these policies. What we stand for is the people, the workers, the poor, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people. Stop transferring money to the rich. And ask the rich for what you have given them, if you desire solidarity; you have nothing to ask the poor. And why should the poor give you money? What have you done with the money you've stolen from this people's pockets, where have you spent it? What did you do with the earthquake money? What did you do with the money from the unemployment fund? Did you answer for these? The recent statement states: "We don't feel the need to explain any of this. " Why should this people trust you and be part of a support mechanism? And that's not enough, but in order to protect your own power, by the way, you take advantage of the opportunity, by the great opportunism, you turn even the worst days into opportunistics, and you throw trustees at the municipalities. That's not enough, you're trying to block the measures developed by municipalities to fight the corona virus, you're trying to block the activities of HDP municipalities. That's not enough, you're trying to prevent solidarity activities from the CHP municipalities. If a government that really thinks about the public would interfere with these activities, turn around and ask yourself. Of course you know the answer very well. And you don't protect women. Stay home. Don't you know what violence women are left alone in their homes? In these last 15 days, 18 women have been killed, and 12 of the 18 women have been killed by male violence within the house. Well, do you have a precaution for that? Do you enforce the law? On the contrary, the Court of Judges and Prosecutors has decided that when a measure is taken under the scope of 6284, the condition of the person responsible for the coronavirus should be taken care of. There's no answer to that. And that's not enough, because today a long-awaited package came in about prisons. What does this package say? He says: "I evacuate gangs to protect those who commit crimes against society from the corona in this sense, not to let them face death, but the political criminals, the old ones, but the sick ones, who have been in prison for years, the pregnant women, the women with children, the women with children, the men in their homes, the women who have to kill their own lives, the people who are in prison, the people who die, the ones who are there, the ones who are left behind. In public opposition to him, he's trying to draw the people they put in prisons with a non-independent hand to a point where he won't actually oppose death. This execution law is not an acceptable law in any way. In addition to taking advantage of opportunity, some penalties are aggravated, and the harsh conditions of parole with disciplinary penalties are already being aggravated once more today. What are you trying to do? In the days of Corona, I also make legal arrangements in the way I want to take advantage of the present opportunity. Today, it is not the new legal provisions that are urgent for us, but for us to consider what are the ways and methods that can be fought against the corona, and how to save these people from this epidemic, before this epidemic spreads quickly, before it spreads any further in the prisons -- which is today. But what's done today, again, is that the government is trying to pass the legal provisions that it has not had before, which it has not been able to pass because of the pressure of public opinion, as if it is taking measures today.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0219par0037	Complete your words, my dear Rose.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0218par0038	We want equality in the law. And it's not a matter of execution. As of today's measures, the legal arrangement for prisons must be issued immediately. Evacuations from prisons must be carried out immediately, including pregnant women, women with children, women and political prisoners who have to kill their wives and men to save their lives. You can't take responsibility for that. You're responsible for the lives of the people who live in prisons, you're responsible for their health, and if they end up dead, you're the ones who'll have to pay for it in front of the judge. Let's remind you once again to withdraw this bill, listen to social opposition, public demands, the arrangements proposed by the political party, and make a legal arrangement according to it.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0219par0040	The request for a word on behalf of Mr. Ali Mahir Aşır. Here you go, Mr. Successor.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0220par0043	I salute the General Assembly. In fact, they say it's the environment. It's our greatest desire. Under extraordinary circumstances, we're all on duty. I don't think any of the parties or any of the agencies created this virus. A plague against our country and against the world. We have to find the truth together with common sense. The arguments here, the fights here, the criticism here, there's no winner, no loser. It's a truly remarkable time. We have to tell what society's going through, the complaints that have come to us here. Look, we're talking to the shopkeepers, the merchants are looking for us, the barbers are looking for us, the restaurants are looking for us, the hairdressers are looking for the tea stoves; they're looking for us. First of all, I can give the recording to Mr. Group Vice President, who called a hairdresser yesterday, a customer representative of an energy company, and we're warning you because of your debt, we're going to cut off your electricity. And she says: "The state has closed my shop. Let's warn them not to search the shop because of the electricity bill, because of the water bill, nor the municipalities. Two: we closed these. The People's Bank launched a campaign for $25,000 loan support for the trade. There is no tax debt from the merchants who go there. There is no debt to the person. They are asked to write the letter.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0221par0047	That's a lie.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0220par0048	Right.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0221par0049	It's a lie, it doesn't exist, absolutely.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0220par0050	Oh, that's right, don't do it; it's wanted, please don't.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0221par0051	But it's a lie.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0220par0052	Look, we're just talking here.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0221par0053	It's definitely a lie.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0220par0054	Please, please. We're talking here. Look, please...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0222par0055	Dear Cora, please, I beg you...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0221par0056	I don't want to say it's a lie, it's a misinformation.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0222par0057	Mr. Cora, you'll give me the right information.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0223par0058	I mean, they do. If they don't want it, they don't want it. That's what they want. For God's sake, are there any tradesmen in this country who don't owe taxes, who don't owe money to BUG-KUR? Why would this guy use a loan anyway? It's a serious problem. Now, a third situation: we're all sitting in our homes, sharing videos, taking our children with us, stay home, Turkey. We share this on social media. Good, they should stay home. An interpretation just below: your salt is dry. Come on, you take over for me. Says the worker. Who says that? Says the people who have to guard at 65, who have to sell turnips in the car. Yesterday, when the President was going out and talking about this campaign, he would have said: "I am collecting this money for 10 million of my workers, where they will be saved, where they will stay at home for two months. If he had said, this would not have been an argument. We've been looking at 5 million Syrians for nine years, but unfortunately we can't keep 10 million workers at home for two months. Look, look, look at the factories, with the morning service, these people go to the factory where 2,000 people work, 3,000 people work, where they eat, where they sweat, where they dress, where they come home with the same service, how do you protect them? We have to take precautions. It doesn't mean anything if we're not protecting the worker, the worker, the street person; I'm not saying this for a fight, believe me, I'm not saying that. Stay at home. It's easy to say, but we have to feed people who need to stay at home; that's what the state does. When I stay home, I won't be hungry. It should be said that the worker is human. I know a lot of people, selling handkerchiefs at 65, guarding, having their kid read, rent, pension, we have to give them the opportunity. This may not be money, but three weeks ago this money would have been gone. He would have said, this charity campaign would have started, and we would have told him that it was, therefore, that he was saving up in a fund, and if we did, there wouldn't have been any debates, believe me. Otherwise, people, citizens of the Republic of Turkey, citizens of Turkey, are giving a very good test here: the streets are empty, no one is coming out, and the people are doing their part. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thirty seconds to go...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0224par0065	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0223par0066	Look, he's calling. He says I don't have television. He sends his TV -- the white shopkeeper -- when we call any of our tradesmen; his neighbors don't leave anyone hungry. A society like this, giving a good test, giving the right test, but as a government, let's do what we have to do with these people, keep people at home. That's what I'm saying, but when you talk about it, when you talk about it, when something comes out of it, when something comes out of it, there's tension. We're working here today under the most difficult conditions, everyone's in danger, but that's why we're here, we're here to overcome this danger. Please don't take what they say as a criticism, an insult. Let's listen, discuss, and find the right path together. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0225par0070	I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Members of parliament, the full vote of the proposal is subject to an open vote. In the second article of Article 145 of the Civil Code, the president may be referred to as the end of the open voting session or to a specific day of the week. Under this provision, the entire proposal was given an open vote Thursday (April 2nd 2020). An open vote will be held on the agenda's part of the proposal. In addition, all proposals to be finalised and voted on today will be left to Thursday (April 2nd 2020). It's for your information. We will begin negotiations with Turkish Parliament Speaker Izmir Bali Yıldırım, who has been ranked in the third place, and will begin talks with Chair of the Turkish Parliament, İzmir Yıldırım, who has been appointed to approve the Transit and Transport Co-operation Agreement (Lapis Lazuli Agreement). Commission? He's in position. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed by the number of 24 rows. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr Murat Çepni is asked to speak on behalf of the entire proposal. Here you go, Mr. Chepni.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0226par0080	Thank you, Mayor. The General Assembly and our valued people, yes, we are facing an epidemic that has increased its influence around the world, the risk, and the basic character of the process that we're in is yet to be revealed. So we're not yet in control of what kind of picture the day we're in, and it's not yet clear what kind of outcome we're going to have for the future or for the future. So, all over the world, they're still busy making solutions to the results that we're experiencing, but when it comes to Turkey, other factors are being added to this situation. Turkey, yes, is in chaos, but this chaos may be much deeper than it is in the whole world. Because one of the main characters of the chaos in Turkey is a question of insecurity, so the Turkish community doesn't know what tomorrow is going to be, it doesn't know exactly what the stress, the risk is, and it doesn't know who to expect a solution from. Today, thousands of health workers are trying to do their jobs with great sacrifice, with great sacrifice, which is known for their protests, which even they have expressed. So the most fundamental issue that makes Turkey unique today is the way power operates this process. Of course, as the process progresses, we continue to say the reviews we put from the beginning, but with the way the Assembly works, after a while, the risk of criticism and warnings being expressed is becoming more and more common. But since the peak of the expected, both for us and for the process, has not yet been reached, so since it's been determined that the pixel point has not been reached, we're actually dealing with a lot more words, a lot more criticism, because the process is just in front of us. Now, we said that power is fighting against the people, not against the coronavirus. And when we say that, we have a lot of concrete data, and we've tried to explain it over and over again. The power doesn't run this process transparently. The government is busy punishing Turkish Medical Association (TTTB) branch managers who are making statements today, put aside the main actors of this process. In the process, the government is busy pursuing its citizens who are beating on Twitter. In the meantime, the government is busy taking and threatening citizens who cry out, "Stay in the house. Let me stay in the house on the basis of the call. But I am hungry, make a solution." The government explains packages in this process, and you look at these packages, where the capital is protected, the companies are protected, and the public is called in. The first package that was announced was nothing to the public again, all about saving companies. Now we've had enough. He started a national solidarity campaign with a jargon called "We." Yes, Turkey may be enough for itself, but without the AKP, it's enough. You've finished agriculture, you've finished industry, you've finished production, you've transformed the construction economy, the concrete economy into the basic economic form, you've developed the Rant economy. You've chased all the country's resources, its forests, its streams, its construction companies. Yeah, if it's not you, these people can take care of themselves. Without your capital dictatorship, these people can take care of themselves. Solidarity is prohibited. I'm asking you now: yesterday you transferred billions of dollars to the Ensar Foundation -- the Ensar Foundation for Sexual Harassment. You drank the earthquake money, and there are a lot of examples like it. So, do these people trust you? These people don't trust you, these people don't trust you. Therefore, we are sufficient for us. With their literature, with their eunuchs, you will not be able to overcome this process. What needs to be done is simple. As for the resource issue, look, the budget for security and arms in the 2020 budget is $230 billion. Yes, if you give up security and war policies, this process can all be resolved. If you don't make guarantee payments to contractors, it could be solved. If you do not transfer money from the president's covert grant to the gangs, the problem may be solved. It can be solved by the court's daily, monthly, annual expenses. With 2 billion 735m euros transferred to the Yandash associations in 2020, it can be solved. Yes, stay in the house. It is called good, true, but that call does not include millions of working workers. It's pure hypocrisy. Millions of workers have to work. We, for that, must and must, call for immediate pay-per-view. In the process, we know that power is about saving its own life, swimming its own economy ship. We've made this call to our people all along, and our people are doing what they need from their side, trying to establish their own solidarity field. Dear friends, the final example of this is a platform of health for all employees, including hundreds of institutions, democratic mass organizations, people, parties and representatives. These are the demands of this platform: ban layoffs; let the unemployment fund be evaluated for the unemployed, under the supervision of trade unions and trade organisations; let the health of all employees who are secure and unsecured be met by the SGK; and most importantly -- there are 13 articles -- I'm just explaining a few of them -- let them be paid permissions. Yeah, that's what this platform calls for. I'm calling this call from here to all our people, dear friends. This platform, where hundreds of institutions come together and describe the words and feelings of millions of workers, calls for one minute each evening at 8:20 p.m. Yes, in this process, we, the people, will continue to call all the policies that the government has established, the king is naked. At the same time, this government makes very typical moves in its struggle against the public, not against the virus, but against the public, one of which is the newly announced execution package. Here we see a reward for the ideological hostile attitude of power. In the Coronavirus process, due to the virus measure, all our people are waiting for the immediate evacuation of all Turkish society prisons... because there are over 100,000 prisoners in prisons, more than 100,000 prisoners. So these are the conditions where there are six people in a three-person space, where bunks for three are transformed into beds for six, air conditioning conditions are very limited, dietary conditions are very limited. But put that aside, the power is this opportunity. He keeps political prisoners, political prisoners, and people who are being held captive by the state while fighting against fascism, while fighting for equality, freedom, while they are being held captive by the government, by the government, by the government. This is direct public hostility, direct discrimination, inequality. We find it right to make an egalitarian policy, an equitable arrangement. Yes, our comrades in prisons, as I mentioned in the beginning, have struggled against fascism and will continue to do so. We will certainly increase their fight to freedom, so that no soul may have any doubt about it. This does not depend on the opportunistic policies and packages that do not contain equality, nor does it depend on the hostility of political power. It depends on our people's struggle. So, once again, I send greetings to all of our fellow prisoners, saying here that we will continue their struggle. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0227par0095	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0228par0096	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0227par0099	Mr. President, dear friends, I've made myself in charge of highlighting a few things the speaker has mentioned, so to speak. Look, Mr. Speaker, the people don't trust you, why should they? They won't support you. He said. Mr. President, first of all, people don't support or vote for a power they don't trust for 18 years. Secondly...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0229par0103	You show death and you persuade malaria, that's the point, that's the point.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0230par0104	Catastrophy, catastrophic!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0229par0105	You're making me!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0231par0106	Are you always like this? Are you always like this?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0232par0107	Nothing happened, but something definitely happened!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0231par0108	Calm down.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0233par0109	We're calm...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0231par0110	Mr. President, my second statement is...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0234par0111	Guys, he can't answer.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0235par0112	Go ahead, Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0231par0113	It's against the code, it's against democracy, it's against the General Assembly's law. Don't be like that.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0236par0114	You can't answer, don't keep picking on me like that.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0235par0115	Dear friends, please...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0231par0116	The campaign started yesterday, Mr. President. We invited our entire nation to the campaign. As the speaker says, if no one trusts it, it will be seen how much our people contribute or don't contribute to the campaign. We'll decide by seeing him. Secondly, Mr. President, millions of dollars have been transferred to fellow associations. There's been a lot of talk about it here. There is no risk that the public, the municipalities, will give money to such associations, to such foundations, Mr. President. We've denied it, we've shown the documents. Condemned convictions have been made for slander. I think it's a non-profit approach for them to say the same thing again. The other thing, Mr. President, is that everyone, every party, every deputy can have criticism of the execution law that has been announced today, and we respect that, but I don't think it's right for them to accuse you, to question you in harsh terms. It's been announced today, and I want every party on Friday to say that we have these proposals, we have this review.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0237par0119	We told you, you ignored it, we told you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0238par0120	We told you, you ignored it.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0231par0121	Don't talk?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0239par0122	That's enough, you've said too much.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0231par0123	There's a commission on Friday, there's a General Assembly next week. No one listens to that kind of language, but I'll tell you again, every party has respectable lawyers, members. Yeah, study, study, evaluate. Maybe we'll have some stuff to change together, something to remove, something to add. But that language is of no use to anyone. I'm inviting you to all our parties again.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0240par0125	Yes, thank you. Let's turn on the mike.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0231par0127	Mr. President, I'm inviting you to every party again without prejudice. We're talking about an important issue, an execution law that concerns all of us, a matter that concerns all of our communities. There's a commission on Friday, there's a General Assembly next week. Not in that manner, but in the manner to be taken seriously, to be evaluated, come up with suggestions, let's all discuss it together. Mr. President, my regards to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0240par0130	Thank you. The talks on the proposal are complete. There's no question-answering process. The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. THE CONTACT OF TRANSITION AND CONTROLATION CONTACTATION (PLAISION OF APPLICATION) The approval of the Treaty on Transport and Transport Co-operation (Lapis Lazuli Road Agreement) signed on November 15, 2017, was approved. [[Whistling]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I beg you, there may be a chance to have a chat outside after we've completed the negotiations. Thank you all. The first word on the matter is for the group members of the People's Democratic Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Kemalbay.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0241par0147	I salute our people. Dear friends, the world is struggling with a great pandemic, the epidemic is turning the world upside down, and the world's focus is on the Covid-19 epidemic. In countries that are truly democratic, in countries that have been able to build freedom, equality, in countries where unions are strong, where civil society is strong, in countries where transparency policy can be built, we see that public health... Other, like us -- hybrid Fascism, Fascism, what shall we call it, totalitarian regime, totalitarian regime -- which is not transparent in any way, in any way transparent about anything, who doesn't account for anything, who doesn't work on any of the board, in any way, is hiding, hiding, unstoppable, is not being taken in time, and today, in Turkey, 82 million are being dragged into a major disaster. Look, there have been announcements today, these are official statements. There were 15,422 tests.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0242par0149	Less?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0241par0150	We used to say test, test, test every day. You're finally running some tests. Yeah, you did a test and there were 2,074 cases. Look, don't laugh, gentlemen, don't laugh; we're talking about human life.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0243par0151	The Science Board has a decision to make.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0241par0152	We're talking about human life. Your salt is dry, of course you can laugh, but today 46 people have lost their lives, can you account for it?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0244par0154	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I beg you, please...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0241par0155	Can you account for that? Well, these are official explanations, and you're going to have to multiply these statements by at least five, maybe you're going to have to multiply them by a much higher number, and this multiplication table is going to result in human life. People are saying goodbye to life today because of you, they're losing their lives. Since personal protective equipment is not provided with appropriate personal protective equipment, health workers are at risk today, and they are also at risk of life. Now, friends, look, when we're trapped, you say: "We must be united and united, we must be united." It's probably the party of the People's Democratic Party that talks about solidarity in Turkey most so far, and it's the party that pays the most to build solidarity, social solidarity and social peace; at the very beginning, our previous spouses, our former spouses, our dear Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ, and all our MPs, our party, our co-chairs, are coming. Since he wrote the truth, there are a lot of journalists who are in prison because he drew the truth, and these are our friends.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0245par0157	Journalists?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0241par0158	The people who advocated this solidarity, for the freedom of solidarity and for the freedom of the people, for justice, for the welfare of the people are in prison today. There are now nearly 300,000 prisoners in prison, 300,000.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0245par0159	Prisoner, prisoner.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0241par0160	What are the prisoners waiting for in prison? What are you waiting for?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0245par0161	We're expecting Friday, we're expecting an offer. Bring your suggestions, your suggestions.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0241par0162	Look, if there's a contaminant, when there's a case of contamination in prisons... just as the curve in Turkey started to get so steep, if the graph is going to go on vertically, so if there are geometric deaths and cases increasing every day, there's going to be a lot more of that in the prisons.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0245par0163	The safest place is the prison, there are no cases at the moment.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0241par0164	But you don't have a conscience, so don't talk to me, because I doubt you're even human.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0245par0166	No way!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0241par0167	Because you're like robots, you're like machines, you come here to raise your hand. You guys have no right to talk.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0246par0168	Mr. Kemalbay...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0245par0169	You've been co-president, how's that for you? Is that statement true? You insulted me.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0241par0170	As the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we remain in the classroom looking for solutions to the problems of the people, and we all stay together. And we, if we can't prevent pandemic today, if Turkey is the world's 1st in the world in Turkey, if today's world is the first in the world, then it's the Turkish Grand National Assembly that's responsible.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0247par0171	Where's the 1st place in the world? The world of what?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0245par0172	Who's human and who's not human, everybody look in the mirror!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0241par0173	Turkey's Grand National Assembly is currently committing a major crime. Now, since he's taken this matter so lightly here today, this House is committing a crime, and we can't say that this Parliament can do its duty to the people.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0245par0175	What did I tell you to insult me? That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0248par0176	You can't say that the government is committing a crime.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0249par0177	Dear MPs, the Deputy Director of the Group will give the answer. Please...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0250par0178	Look, the mission of this House must be to free this people from the palace. A handful of disposables, a handful of hands, must be removed from the people in the palace. The court's decisions, the decisions made by a handful of elites, I really don't want to talk too hard, but they lead to death. Look, the contamination means that more than 60 percent of the population will become Covid-19, and more than 60 percent will be infected.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0251par0179	Open your mouth for good.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0250par0180	I'm talking about scientific data here, guys. It's a fact, and that's why all the scientists said: "Test... test... test... So we were going to find people by testing them, we were going to isolate them, and we were going to protect the public, but the Minister of Health said that before the outbreak even got here, we were supposed to have done those tests, and we made those tests, and we sold 500,000 of them to other countries, and that's what he said, I'm his liar. I mean, the world's pandemic is alive, but Turkey is selling 500,000 tests somewhere else, no tests, no tests. No, we have the test, but we don't do the test. If you say so, then I want to ask you: Why don't you do the tests?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0251par0181	We're doing it.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0250par0182	Why didn't you do it, why did you increase it a little bit, why don't you test everyone, why don't you test every point, why still 15 grand?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0251par0183	We're doing it.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0252par0184	You don't know what you're talking about, do you have the data?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0250par0185	Guys, look, you're saying, "We're enough." Let's be united, let's be together. We're enough. It's not a confluence, it's a polarizing word. In fact, again, as usual, we are enough to polarize us. You tell us that to cover our people's ears. But what you're really trying to do, what you're trying to do, is you're actually following a pack of immune systems. You're putting these people in packs.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0252par0186	It's in England. This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0250par0187	And by not following the transparency policy, by blackening the facts, by concealing the deaths, by concealing the cases...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0252par0188	This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, not the House of Commons.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0253par0189	No, we're not hiding it, we're definitely not hiding it, you're not investigating it.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0250par0190	Look, if it's infected, if it's an epidemic, it's ours to bring the dead to life. That's what you do. Why? Because if you were prepared, then this country's billions of dollars budget would have been reserved for this job.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0253par0191	The most prepared country is Turkey, Europe sank, England is a disaster.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0250par0192	You shut up, you have no conscience! You shut up, you have no conscience, you have no conscience!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0253par0193	But it's a shame, it's a shame!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0250par0194	You can't understand me, and you shouldn't listen.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0253par0195	Who are you talking to?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0250par0196	I speak against our people.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0254par0197	Mr. Kemalbay, I beg you, Mr. Kemalbay.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0250par0198	I speak to our people, and I say to our people, friends, there is no precautionary package of this power.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0255par0199	Mr. President, I want you to intervene. This can't happen.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0254par0200	If you'll excuse me... Mr. Kemalbay, please pay attention to your statements, your words.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0255par0202	You can't call me that, take that back!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0254par0203	Dear friends, there's no such procedure. Don't do it.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0255par0204	But that can't be an insult, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0254par0205	I'll promise to insult you anyway.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0256par0206	He hasn't asked for it yet.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0257par0207	The precautionary package is: the prevention package is to protect the people, to keep the people in the house; the public has no access to food, to health. When the public goes home, the worker, the worker, the shopkeeper must have confidence in this: I am at home, but my stomach will be full. This trust must be given to me by the government, but you do not drop it because we are a social state. This is one of the lies you have not dropped.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0254par0209	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0257par0210	We can't say the social government's a dime a dozen. There's a despotic power in Turkey, there's a company in Turkey, there's a state in companies. Look, companies continue to cut money off of bridges that still haven't been crossed, taking guarantees, making money out of uncut roads, airports, there's nothing wrong with that. Here are the projects going on, the Canal Istanbul runt project continues, but there are a lot of jobs that can be done, such as getting public guarantees, public pay support, taxing from wealth; giving paid permission to workers, social support to women, paying for housewives, support for all these demands, and of course, what you're planning to remove from prisons today, as you say, will benefit 90,000 people.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0254par0212	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0257par0213	Can I have a minute?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0254par0214	It's done, Mr. Kemalbay.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0257par0215	Let's assume that 90 thousand people will benefit from it. So, where are 200,000 people, 200,000 people?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0254par0216	Thank you, Mr. Kemalbay.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0257par0217	You're leaving 200,000 people to die? Do you have the right? Who are you?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0254par0218	Mr. Kemalbay, thank you...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0257par0219	Who the hell are you? Do you decide who dies and who stays?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0254par0220	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Mr. Kemalbay...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0257par0221	What right do you have to do that?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0258par0222	We'll decide, of course, who else will decide.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0257par0223	You decide to commit premeditated murder, we never accept your decision, and I'm telling you right now, you're gonna pay for it.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0259par0225	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the speakers are always beating the crap out of our fellow MPs, which happens all the time, and we're all going through this together, but none of it gives a congressman the right to insult another MP. So...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0260par0226	He didn't insult me.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0257par0227	The lack of conscience is not an insult.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0259par0228	You know, there's a lot of things in your words that are unacceptable, but at this hour, I'm not going to go into this process of asking for this report so I don't have to stretch things out in this environment.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0261par0229	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0259par0230	But not from your position, Mr. Cora, because of the bullying, I'll give it to you from the stand. Please...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0262par0232	He didn't want it, President. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0263par0233	But he didn't want to...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0262par0234	That's not the way it works, Mayor!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0264par0235	Don't take sides, Mayor, don't take sides!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0265par0236	Let me also decide whether I will promise according to 60, or according to 69.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0262par0237	He didn't ask for it. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0266par0238	Mr. Cora needs to decide, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0262par0239	He'll demand it, he didn't demand it.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0267par0240	I've made a request.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0268par0241	They raised their hand and entered the system and you don't realize they're demanding to speak!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0262par0242	You rule by side, you rule by side every time you rule by side.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0268par0243	Why don't you...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0269par0244	Mr. Cora, how many words do you want?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0262par0245	Now he's gonna prove he's not guilty?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0268par0246	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0270par0250	Mr. President, I'd like to point out that the statements of the HDP MP who just spoke, the statements of each one of them, are essentially incompatible with the presence of this Assembly, the spirit of the Assembly, and that I have returned each one of them to him. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, everyone has the right to say that they want it under the immunity of law, the immunity of the bench, but is not allowed to insult or insult anyone. I'd also like to say that you're not at liberty to say. In addition, dear friends, in the talks here, it's clear that there's an enemy of the country, an enemy of the nation...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0271par0254	There's no such thing. There's no such thing. He doesn't have that kind of language.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0270par0255	...in the face of actions towards unity and unity, an anti-Turkish campaign for defaming Turkey is under way.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0271par0256	You're lovers, we're enemies...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0272par0257	People, you're the enemy!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0270par0258	We know very well what each one of them was meant for.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0271par0259	You are the enemy of this people!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0273par0260	Ebrü Hanım, please... Mr. Başaran, Mr. Günay, please... Mr. Olic wanted a word. Your group president will respond, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0274par0262	We know exactly what you're trying to say here, according to the instructions you've been given.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0275par0263	You're the enemy of the nation. You are the enemy of this people.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0276par0264	Know your place!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0274par0265	Our people know what you are, and this way they never give you a bonus. That's your respect, that's your understanding, that's your democratic culture. You have no words, no words, but to come and repeat the instructions you received from others.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0276par0267	Know your place! Come on! Know your place!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0277par0268	There is no such administration.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0274par0269	So, dear friends, it is admirable that Turkey has fought against this coronavirus. When you look at Turkey right now...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0276par0270	There's no expression like that! He'll know his place!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0277par0271	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0274par0272	In Europe, Italy has collapsed, Germany has collapsed, France is bleeding, America is confused what to do, but Turkey is standing up, struggling. The nation is behind its country, the nation is behind its state, and the nation is at the side of the AK PARTY. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We're enough for each other, even if you're not on our side. Thank you all.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0278par0277	When you don't have a word to say, you lecture the hammock.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0279par0278	Everything's on your side. He's insulting 40 of them. As a group, we want words, too.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0280par0279	There is no such administration.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0281par0280	Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0282par0281	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0280par0282	Is it enough that you will speak? He already did, so he answered.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0283par0283	President, there is no such procedure. He insulted me 40 times. As a whole group, we want words, too, without teasing.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0280par0284	There's no such procedure!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0283par0285	You can't take a step until you're set up, Mr. Cura.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0284par0286	Not Cura, Cora.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0283par0287	You can't take steps without being built, you can't take steps without being built.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0285par0288	Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0286par0291	Mr. President, dear friends, in the speech of the speaker just now, he gave a speech to the assembly, such as fascism, tyranny, dictatorship, and despotic governance, which I did not approve of from the stand.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0287par0292	Your friend couldn't answer, he was a janitor! If he had answered, he would have answered!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0286par0293	In fact, I don't think this speech, which deserves disciplinary action, is the kind of language that deserves to be answered...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0287par0294	He made his own eunuch! The AKP has memorized a text; people, country, Sakarya!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0286par0295	I'd like to say that I consider that an answer to that, Mr. President, and that I condemn it with all my cells.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0288par0297	Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0289par0299	Thank you, Mr. President. So when we're discussing the corona virus, we have to go into other issues, which means there's nothing we can do. Now, it's Mr. Cora's way, to sit there, to speak to every speaker, to break his will...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0290par0302	That's his job, that's his job! They gave you a job!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0289par0303	...and it's his way of making illegal claims, and we know that, but we're gonna get off the stand and...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0290par0304	AKP's mouth-to-mouth MP...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0291par0305	Look, this is the Deputy Director of the Group, please...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0292par0306	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0291par0307	Dear friends, Mr. Cora, please... Mr. Cora, look, if you treat another party's vice president like this, your group's vice president will be dealt with in the same way as any other party group. Please, please... Here you are, Mr. Oluç...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0293par0310	Thank you. Your publicist speakers are really interesting to us, so you're using the word "get instructions from others." Mr. Turan, your Group President, has made a statement recently, he said: "We are all nothing without Recep Tayyip Erdoğan." You didn't get up and say, "We are none of us." You didn't say, "We are none." So those who were silent that day, you get up here today and take instructions from others. You can't say, you can't say, it's not your place; it's yours; it's the first. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Second: Yahu, you're not talking about national hostility, we're telling you every day how you're hostile to the Kurdish people here and all the people in that area. Just last week, you appointed trustees to eight municipalities, and your authority has made the hostility to appoint trustees to eight municipalities fighting the corona virus. You're an open Kurdish enemy. You, now, are you telling us this? What hostility have you seen? Not at all. Look, you're not going anywhere with these arguments, this eunuch. You know why you can't leave? As long as you continue to do so, the People's Democratic Party comes to this National Assembly with a little more power in every election, and millions of people vote because they consider it a representative of the People's Democratic Party, and go, defend our views, our demands there. You're going to digest it, and then you're going to digest it, and then you're going to swallow it, and you're going to swallow it, and you're going to discuss it in equal terms, and you're going to process it in equal terms, and you're going to develop democratic politics in equal conditions.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0294par0315	Let's open the system.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0293par0316	As long as you don't do this, we won't have a chance to get out of these weird arguments and houses. That's what we're offering you. Let's talk properly in democratic politics and argue and take steps together to solve our problems. That's what we're saying. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0294par0318	Thank you. Mr. Turan, very short, please.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0295par0321	Mr. President, despite the fact that our friend just spoke to him in his speech, I might have asked the Deputy Director of the Group to understand, perhaps...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0296par0322	Then why didn't he answer him? Why did he have to be a eunuch in the first place?
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0295par0323	For God's sake, shut up! He's been in the same place all morning.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0297par0324	Do not speak in such a manner.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0296par0325	You learn how to talk first. He insulted me, too.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0295par0326	Mr. President, Mr. Group Vice President, our friend has made a false accusation. It's not right, it's not elegant. We won't do it again. I'd expect him to say, but on the contrary, we're faced with a tremendous accusation. See, we all know how this nation responds to the People's Democratic Party, and how it narrows it down to 10 percent seven months after 15 percent.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0297par0328	We're the only ones who don't know how.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0295par0329	The public gave me a big loan. When the people gave this loan, they said, "Be with the democrat."
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0298par0330	Tell me the bombs!
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0297par0331	You know all about your bombs, you know all about ISIS. They were your angry children.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0299par0332	It doesn't work like that. Your bombs...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0300par0333	Be with the council. He said, "But they have been accused of seeing how those who steal the reeds and those who draw the guns walk together at the same time.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0301par0334	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0300par0335	No, Mr. President, excuse me a moment, please. Mr. President, look, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk to you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0301par0336	Round it up, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0300par0337	Okay. Thank you, Mr. President. They just called me Deputy Director of the Group again, and in my speech, they said that without Mr. Erdogan, we'd be nothing. Cut off the head of the speech, cut off the end, express it two words, I don't see the political culture of Mr. Saruhan.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0302par0339	One knows one's own business.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0300par0340	What I said was, once again, that question was how would Mr. Davutoglu's party succeed? If I'm a professor on this, and I'm on different missions, it's worth walking with. I said that anyone who doesn't walk together can't get results in Turkish politics; that's what I'm saying. I'm a lawyer, I take pictures, I have books, I'm very valuable, but I said when I ran as a political individual, I couldn't get results. I'm saying the same thing: we're valuable as the AK PARTY, we walk together, we find common sense, but I'm telling you, anyone who steps outside this common mind would do the wrong thing. I don't appreciate your accusation, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0303par0342	Thank you, Mr. Turan. Dear lawmakers, the request for a statement on behalf of individuals on the matter is for Mr. Özkan Yılim. Dear friends, our last speaker. Mr. Yım, let's talk in a manner that won't be an argument. Here you go, Mr. Yum.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0304par0351	Thank you. Yes, Mr. President, our valued citizens, we have no one watching us at this hour, but the TVs have been turned off, so there may be people watching us online. First of all, I offer everyone my love and respect again. My fellow lawmakers, we are now going through a really sad process, which is related to the process that we're going through, because this weekend, I can see that we're going to see a 100-alarm number due to the virus, unfortunately. Hopefully, these numbers will land by Monday at worst. And I wanted to share that idea because statistics show it, and I hope I'm wrong. Now, of course we're dealing with the virus, the measures have been taken, Mr. President has shut down many tradesmen in many sectors -- particularly the names I won't count again -- from his cage to his hairdresser to his barber. Of course, the citizens who work here, the citizens who make a daily profit, are reaching out to me, my dear fellow lawmakers. They don't have money in their pockets anymore, they don't see their needs, they don't get supplies. Indeed, if this is the case only with the baneman, believe me, it is the same thing in 81 districts of Turkey, 970 districts. We need to take precautions for him. Look, I'd like to offer immediate measures with three items very briefly. The insurance of employees at all closed workplaces must be paid, as well as a minimum wage salary. Look, I repeat, Mr. President said: "Let it be closed." They shut it down. We have to pay every one of our employees, at least a month's worth of insurance, so they can bring bread home, at least feed their children. On the other hand, it is urgent that loans belonging to these businesses be transferred, especially from government banks, without interest. Another, the third thing I see is that most of our citizens in Turkey are now unable to work -- whether it's an artist or a worker -- can't bring money home. For this reason, gas, electricity, and water from a family of four must be given freely by the government during this process. So we can get through this right. I'd like to ask Mr. Bulent Turan. He's here. Mr. President, please bear witness. Many of our citizens ask that, and I'll ask you, you're not in your position, but you're on the Court: Mr. Bulent Turan, is 131 billion in the unemployment fund or not? Look, I'm going to ask you again in front of all the MPs and all the people who are watching us, and right now in the House, he's signing up. Mr. Bulent Turan, I've asked you in writing, once again, is 131 billion in the unemployment fund still standing? I certainly expect an answer from you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0305par0359	The system's changed, you don't have the authority to ask me.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0304par0360	This is exactly the kind of money that our unemployed, unemployed citizens are saving up to use in their bad days -- what we call emergency brakes. Was the road built with this money built, the highway built, the bridge built, the hospital built? I ask you again, for the third time verbally, if this money is still standing. On the other hand, our valued citizens, my dear colleagues; look at this, Mr. President, who said: "We spent $40 billion on our guests, on the Syrians." Okay, we're a big government; we took them because of the war in our neighbor's house; we looked at them, and we spent $40 billion. He even said: I'll spend another $40 billion. Look, 40 billion is worth $260 billion when you multiply it by 6.5. Our Turkey consists of 83 million people. 83 million is about 252 billion when you multiply by 3,000. So today, we spend another 40 billion dollars or even another 40 dollars on the Syrians. With the money you call it, 252 billion, whether it's business or not, a process that will cover a period of 30 days or twenty-one days of quarantine for everyone in England today, each of us, whether it has a job or not, would be able to control this virus. But where! You gave money away, you fed it to those five companies, those five companies, Osmangazi, Yavuz Sultan Selim, Eurasia Tunnel, etcetera, etcetera...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0306par0363	Dear Yým, finish your words.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0304par0364	Now, no one crosses these bridges, no one uses the highways, and since they're not being used, the payments will continue because of the guarantee of transition to these companies. Besides, I'd like to offer my condolences. The Governor of the 40s and the Governor of the State's Health have come back with positive results, and they've been infected with the virus. I wish them well again. However, there is a sad incident in Balıkesir. Mr. Bulent Turan, I'd like you to discuss this in particular, and Fevzi Turgut, a family doctor at Balıkesir, is taking out Fevzi Turgut, County Health Director Fevzi Yavuzylmaz for two months. Do you know why he's taking it? Only because it fits the flexible working system the President gave it. Therefore, I would especially like to warn the Governor of Balıkesir and the Governor of State Health Fevzi Yavuzylmaz to defend the rights of this doctor. Thank you all, thank you very much.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0307par0369	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0308par0370	Dear lawmakers, the talks on the matter are complete. There's no question-answering process. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0309par0376	Mr. President, the precious Group Vice President says don't take words.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0310par0377	Your MPs are in danger.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0309par0378	He's right, it's late, but again, the speaker of the same party asks questions four times by mentioning my name. For once, our deputies need to ask the ministers in particular the written questions, but since they love us so much, they've probably developed a style like this, so thank you. Mr. President, all payments on unemployment fund applications, such as flexible work, short work grants, are already being paid from the unemployment fund. That money's for today. So I just want to say that I don't find this question very meaningful. And besides that...
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0311par0381	Is the money in place or not? We're waiting for an answer, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0309par0382	I'll inform you in private, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit04spe0312par0384	Thank you. I'm going to read Article 2: MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't... Sustained. MADDE 3- (1) The President governs these laws. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Dear lawmakers, the whole proposal is subject to an open vote. The open vote is scheduled for Thursday (April 2nd 2020). We will begin talks with Turkish Parliament Speaker Izmir Bali Yıldırım, who has been ranked in the fourth place, and with the Minister of the Turkish Republic of Turkey's Government and the Minister of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Kyrgyz, offering the Dair Law and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 51 rows. Proposal on the whole thing? No. The negotiations are complete. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. THE CONTACT OF SOCIAL SURVIVITY IN THE ACTIVITY OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION CONTINUES THE CONTROLATION OF COMMUNITY OF COMMUNITY The approval of the Social Security Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Kyrgyz, which was signed in Ankara on April 9, 2018. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't... Sustained. I'm having the 2nd article read. Article 2- (1) This applies in the history of Law publication. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Article 3- (1) The President shall carry out these laws. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The entire proposal is subject to an open vote. The open vote is scheduled for Thursday (April 2nd 2020). We will begin negotiations with İzmir MP Bazili Yıldırım, who has been ranked in the 5th place, with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the Government of the Nigerian Federal Republic of Economic Co-operation and the Proposal of the Law and Foreign Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 61 rows. Proposal on the whole thing? No. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. NIJERYA FEDERAL REPUBLICATION WITH THE COMMUNITY OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION CONTACTIVES AND ECONOMIC WORKING The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria between Trade and Economic Co-operation was approved on March 2, 2016. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 3- (1) The President governs these laws. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Dear lawmakers, the whole proposal is subject to an open vote. The open vote is scheduled for Thursday (April 2nd 2020). We will begin negotiations with İzmir MP Bazili Yıldırım, who has been ranked in the 6th place, and with the State of Turkey's Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan, offering the Law and the Foreign Commission Report, confirming the Co-operation Protocol between the Government of Turkey and the Republic of Uzbekistan's Government. Commission? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed in 63 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole offer? No. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. THE PROTECTION OF THE PROTECTION OF THE PROTECTION OF THE AUTHORITY OF ACTIVITY IN THE ACTIVITY OF ACTIVITY OF REPUBLICITY WITH THE REPLICATION OF TURKEY MADDE 1- (1) was approved on July 26, 2017 in Tashkent, and the Commission on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't... Sustained. MADDE 3- (1) The President governs these laws. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't... Sustained. The entire proposal is subject to an open vote. The open vote is scheduled for Thursday (April 2nd 2020). We will begin negotiations with İzmir MP Bazili Yıldırım, who has been ranked in the 7th place, and with the State of Turkey's Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh. Commission? He's in position. Proposal on the whole thing? No. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The government of the People's Government of Turkey and the People's Republic of Turkey are continuing to understand the unity of the military and the cooperation of the teaching community. MADDE 1- (1) was approved on October 12, 2011 in Dakka, with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Military Education and Teaching Association Agreement between the Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't... Sustained. MADDE 3- (1) The President governs these laws. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't... Sustained. The entire proposal is subject to an open vote. The open vote is scheduled for Thursday (April 2nd 2020). We will begin negotiations between Turkey's Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Ukrainian Government between Turkey's Government and the Ukrainian Government of Turkey between Turkey's Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is ranked in the 8th Assembly of Turkey, in accordance with the Proposition of the Law Proposal and Foreign Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. Proposal on the whole thing? No. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The government of the United States and the government of the United States and the government of the United States and the government of the United States and the government of the United States and the government of the United States and the government of the United States and the government of the United States and the government of the United States and the government of the United States and the government of the United States and the government of the United States and the government of the United States. MADDE 1- (1) was approved on October 9, 2017 between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Ukraine between the Government of Turkey and the Government of Ukraine, and the Protocol to Avoid Double Taxation on Taxes taken over Wealth, and to Change the Agreement on Obstruction of Tax Traffiction. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 3- (1) The President governs these laws. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The entire proposal is subject to an open vote. The open vote is scheduled for Thursday (April 2nd 2020). We will begin talks between Turkish Parliament Speaker Tekirdağ's Government of the Republic of Turkey and the European Regional Office of the World Health Organization on the Appointment of Preparing for Humanity and Health Emergency Conditions (DSÖ Geographic Dissolution Office) on the Approvement of the Homeowner Country Agreement (/1803) of Turkey (/1803) and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 78 rows. He doesn't want a word on the whole offer. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. THE REPUBLICATION OF TURKEY REPLICATION AND THE CONTROLATION OF THE DUCTION OF THE UNIVERSITY OF THE UNIVERSITY OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE WORLD ACTION OF MAN AND ACTION OF ACTIVATION OF ACTIVITY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF THE UNIVERSE MADDE 1- (1) was approved by the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the European Regional Office in Ankara on May 2, 2017. Proposal on matter? No. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Proposal on matter? No. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 3- (1) The President governs these laws. Proposal on matter? No. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The entire proposal is subject to an open vote. The open vote is scheduled for Thursday (April 2nd 2020). We will begin talks with Turkish Parliament Speaker Izmir Bali Yıldırım, who has been ranked in the 10th place, who has been appointed President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as well as with the State of Turkey's Republic of Turkey. Commission? He's in position. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed by 80 rows. There's no rhetorical demands on the entire proposal. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The establishment of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Turkey has been established in accordance with the agreement of the Council of the Republic of Turkey. MADDE 1- (1) was approved on 25 October 2017 in Ankara, with the approval of the International Compound Transport Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan. Proposal on matter? No. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Proposal on matter? No. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 3- (1) The President governs these laws. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The entire proposal is subject to an open vote. The open vote is scheduled for Thursday (April 2nd 2020). We will begin talks with Turkish Parliament Speaker Izmir Bali Yıldırım, who has been ranked in the 11th place, who has agreed that the Partial Revision on International Railway Transport of Turkish Parliament (COTIF) is in line with the Law Proposal and Foreign Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 81 rows. Proposal on the whole thing? There isn't. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. REVOLUTION ON THE REVOLUTION OF COMPLICATION OF COMPLICATION IN THE UNIVERSE REPLICATION OF COMPLICATION MADDE 1- (1) The Agreement on Transgovernmental Organization (OTIF)'s 12th General Assembly of Transnational Transport (OTIF) on International Railway Transport (COTIF) was approved on September 29, 30, 2015. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Proposal on matter? No. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. MADDE 3- (1) The President governs these laws. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't... Sustained. Dear MPs, the whole proposal is subject to an open vote, and the open vote is scheduled for Thursday (April 2nd 2020). I'm taking a minute off from the merger.
tbmm-2020-03-31sit05spe0312par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will begin negotiations with Law Proposal 85, ranked 12th. Commission? No. It's been postponed. After that, the decision was made that the Commission would not be found, it was Wednesday (April 1st 2020) at 14 p.m. to discuss law proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
