tbmm-2020-10-01sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 27th Year of the Fourth Legislature of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. We've got enough meetings, we're on the agenda. Dear MPs, dear guests, dear nation, I am opening the Fourth Year of Legislature in the 27th term. I wish this year to be a blessing to you, our beloved MPs, our great Assembly, our beloved nation, and our state. I wish that our negotiations, our decisions, our laws, our efforts, our nation, and our state, would have useful results. At the beginning of my words, I thank and thank all our deputies, politicians, statesmen, who are under this sacred roof today, especially our first Parliament Speaker, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and long life for those who have passed away. And I want to thank all of our colleagues who have worked very hard to make sure that this great House can continue its activities. I salute you, our esteemed MPs, our guests, and all the members of our beloved nation who follow us with interest on their screens, with respect and love. Dear lawmakers, this year we have realized the 100th year of the opening of our Parliament. I call upon the glory of the High Assembly to reach the centuries of power and power, to live forever, from the Lord of the Rights. Humanity has had a very difficult century. The 20th century is perhaps the bloodiest century in human history. Two major world wars, wars of independence, regional wars and conflicts, civil wars, massacres, over 100 million people killed, migrations paint a black century table. In this past century, our beloved nation has achieved great and important gains under the leadership of our Parliament. First of all, it's our legacy, our independence, that we earn at the cost of our blood and our lives. From the magic words of the 20th century, independence means much more to our history. We call it total independence. The more we see events happening in our region and in our nearby geography, the more we realize the magnitude of independence, especially the meaning of full independence. The second important achievement is that we have formed a new state, a republic, from the ashes of a great state that has been devastated by decades of endless war. The third is our democracy, which we have achieved from time to time, although it has been cut down, with determination and full control of our nation. The leadership of our nation's great and important achievements no doubt belongs to our Assembly. This great Parliament has fought the war of independence itself, and the only Parliament that has received the title of "Gazi" is the one that has received the title. In times of hardship and hardship, our home country has not hesitated for a moment to carry out this pioneer assignment. On the night of July 15th, it was our first House of Assembly to be attacked by the traitorous terrorist organization..... For the second time, our Assembly, who carried out its mission and resisted under a decisive bombing of its history and character that night, proved to be worthy and worthy of its title. What an honor it is to be a member of such a great assembly, to serve under this great roof, to serve our beloved nation in the House. And it is clear that this honorable mission has placed a great burden on us. Therefore, it is our primary duty to maintain the dignity of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The future of our democracy, the trust in democracy, depends on it. We will discuss, discuss, and even conclude all the problems of our country and the world under this great roof in group meetings, commissions, and the General Assembly. Let us not forget that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the heart of our nation, republic and democracy. This institution has a higher identity above all of us than we do. In our words and actions, the more aware we are of this fact, the more power and dignity we will have as political institutions and MPs. Dear lawmakers, we are passing through an important crossroads in history, witnessing an important period. We are in the process of a major change that began in the late 20th century, with the speed increasing in the first quarter of the 21st century. We're going through a period when political, economic, social, cultural structures, concepts, rules, institutions, societies, states, geography are starting to reshape, and the great transformative effect of technology is almost taking control. On the other hand, in the last few days of last year, we observe that a virus epidemic that began in China, which affected the entire world, did not only increase the speed of the process in quantitative terms, but also began to change its nature. It is clear that from now on, the outbreak of the coronavirus will have less or more impacts on every aspect of life. We will experience the effects of the epidemic in psychological, sociological, political, economic, commercial, cultural and many other areas in the coming period. On the other hand, this painting has brought the world's status again and again intensively, as its structures and functions have been discussed for a long time, away from carrying out its duties. Many international organisations -- particularly the United Nations -- are set up to ensure international law in the world -- are literally bankrupt -- to ensure the implementation of international law, co-operation, and peace. In the first speech of our President, what appears to be an idealistic criticism is greater than ▪ The symbolism of the world is now a reality that all countries, even the United Nations itself, have accepted and started working under the name "rebuilding." Economic imbalances, injustices, exploitation, institutional approaches that don't value human beings have become much more visible with the pandemic of coronavirus. It is impossible to deny that such times of great change include great challenges, risks, and threats, when the course of history is accelerated, but I also have to say that such periods also offer great possibilities for experienced states like us, dedicated, determined, ambitious nations. A hundred years ago, at a time when a great state long headed for history, a decade of wars, migrations, destructions, and losses, I would like to express that our great nation, which has been able to create a free and independent state with great possibilities, and that our great Parliament, which led it, also bears great responsibilities and will carry it at this crossroads of history. My dear friends, Turkey has always favoured law, rights, justice, legitimacy, internationally. He never ceases to seek the rights of international law and agreements with the same precision, legitimate means and methods. We cannot describe Turkey's presence in the Eastern Mediterranean, just through strategic sources and its legitimate rights. As much as Turkey seeks its rights, there is a fair share in this area and in the field, a right-to-right distribution is meant to take place on a peaceful basis. We don't expect those who make a habit of taking over, not labor, not right, oppression, and not sharing. We don't expect them to understand that. Again, today we are witnessing that some small countries who are struggling with heavy economic problems and who live by Western values and alms are being used as hit men. In order to keep regional conflicts alive, to cause old wounds, the administrations of these poor, ill-advised countries are being exploited. In addition, it is necessary to point out a number of puppet state governments, acting as the political agency of some Western states, who do not represent their people, pose a threat to world and region peace. On the morning of September 26th, I would like to express our deep regret for the incidents that began with the attacks against brother Azerbaijan with the hands of terrorist gangs led by Armenia. First, I bless all our brothers, who rise to witness in the attacks of Armenia, and pray for immediate healing from the Lord of the Rights. I'd like to rephrase this: Turkey will now side with Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) in its right-wing case, as it has been so far. Turkey and Azerbaijan have a close relationship that is unlike any other country in the world. The principle of one nation, two states, is not only a slogan, but a historical identification; it is also a living principle that guides from diplomacy to all areas to Turkey - Azerbaijan relations. This issue and Turkey's support have been made clear to Mr. President at every stage of development, and these decisions were once again presented in a statement issued Monday (September 28th) with the signature of four political parties, and we, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, are on the side of Azerbaijan. Once again, I would like to express the necessity of Armenia's immediate invasion of Azerbaijan's territory, to stop acting as a country that attacks its neighbours and threatens the peace of the region. Dear MPs, Turkey is an exemplary country not only because of its hard-working and noble nation, its exceptional position and its brilliant history, but also because of its radical democracy. Over a hundred and seventy years of elections, the history of a hundred and forty-three years of parliament, and the multi-party political life that is approaching 90 years in total, makes Turkey a different and a pioneer. So we have to understand the value of our democracy better, and we have to evaluate what they've added to us. At this point, as we stand on the value of our democracy, I find it necessary to point out that the pursuit of non-democracy, especially violence and terrorism, is a political method, and in this way, a distorted understanding that leads to legitimizing violence and terrorism. Violence and terror are the most destructive enemy of our democracy and political institution, regardless of its motive, method and shape. Any talk of violence and the approval of terrorism is an assassination against Turkey and deserves to be eliminated. At this crucial turning point in history, Turkey has decided not to act on the artificial balances of a world that has changed, lost its reality, but on new conditions, and only on national interests. Therefore, in the Eastern Mediterranean, in the Middle East, and in all geography, our only measure is to act on the basis of our nation's honor and interests, world peace and justice for all mankind. On the 100th anniversary of the opening of our Grand Assembly, our nation expects that despite our differences in opinion and debate, we act in agreement, to cooperate for the sake of the justice of our national interests. I believe that every member of this glorious and Veteran Assembly, who understood its 100th year, will act according to that expectation. With this feeling and thinking, I wish the new year of life to be a blessing for our nation, for our country, and for all mankind, and I wish you all health and success. [[AK PARTY, MHP and GOOD PARTY]] Members of parliament, to make the opening statement for the new year of legislature, Mr. President, the General Assembly Hall is now in session. I welcome them on behalf of our coven. [[AK PARTY, MHP and GOOD PARTY A standing ovation]] Now we'll read the Istrillal March. [[Identical March]] Here you go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-01sit01spe0002par0033	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with my deepest feelings, with respect, with conversation. I wish to God that the year of the Great National Assembly of Turkey in the 27th century, the year of the Fourth Legislature, our country, our nation, this great institution, all of our MPs. From its opening to today, as a member of our great nation council, I respectfully recall all our deputies serving our country. From our lawmakers, who have served under this roof for a century, I ask God's mercy and good health and pleasure for those who are alive. I give thanks to the first president of our House and the founder of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and to all those who have worked for our country's development and development. With mercy, with gratitude, with respect, I remember our sainted martyrs and veterans who have struggled to transform these lands of ours into their homeland for a thousand years. He still wishes success to our security and intelligence forces, who continue this struggle within and outside our borders, and I say, "May my Lord preserve them all, and may he triumph." [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We will always be prepared, strong, always cautious, knowing that this struggle will last until the end of time. In the 100th year of our Republic, we care about the 600th year of the conquest of Istanbul, the symbolic anniversary of the Malazzirt Victory, the financial and spiritual heritage of the practice. The more we know our history, the more we take care of it, the more confident we can look at our future. That's how we take all our steps. This truth lies beyond the efforts of communities and states who have a few centuries of history to make up ancient history for themselves. Turkey is one of the rare countries in the world, which has been intermittently spread to a vast and uninterrupted geography, over 2,200 years of state tradition. Such a country can't use the same methods as governments with no roots or traditions, no morals, whose power comes from colonialism and greed. The ancient and noble stance, which represents the legislature of our Great National Assembly of Turkey, is the most precious treasure we will leave to our children. I give thanks to all members of our Parliament who have shown a clear stance in our country's fight against terrorism and efforts to protect its rights internationally. Likewise, from the Turkish Cypriots and Azerbaijan to the Balkans and North Africa, our Parliament, which has given sincere support to our brothers and sisters everywhere, has shown that our nation and all our friends are a source of hope. Dear MPs, this year was the 100th anniversary of the opening of our Great National Assembly with prayers, with singularities, with enthusiasm, with enthusiasm. Due to the spread of the Coranavirus outbreak, we have not been able to celebrate this important anniversary in the glory we have longed for. Hopefully, we'll welcome the 100th anniversary of our republic with glorious celebrations, as we have reached our goals. Our coven is not just any coven. This is the province of the sovereign nation. It is a place of national will with its principle. This is either the will or the death. It is a Veteran Assembly, which has personally ruled our country's Instigative War. What kind of crazy person is going to chain me up here? I wonder! It is the home of a nation that has the power and future of its defiance. This is the Parliament that established the state of the Republic of Turkey, our last refuge in our geography. The democratic transformations that began with Turkey's multi-party political transition have always been carried out by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Despite many coups and coup attempts, the precepts, the sneaky games of the ward, this blessed roof has always maintained the honor of the nation's representative. Of course, there have been some unfortunate incidents that we don't want to remember here, but that doesn't make it the height of the values that our House represents. Especially on the night of the 15th of July, the brave and decisive stance of this House has taken place in the history of the world's democracy. Those who accuse Turkey of having a country without paying a price for democracy, we hope on the night of July 15th, they are ashamed of their blasphemies. (EC PARTY) After all the trouble our nation has experienced or avoided, our Parliament has been able to fulfill its responsibility. Our Parliament has the greatest share in all our country's gains. In the past 18 years alone, reforms, regulations, decisions, admirable attitudes have been a particularly fascinating success story. Hopefully, in the coming period, our House will continue to make history with much greater achievements. Turkey's journey to reach its 2023 targets has more missions in our Parliament. The presidential government system, like our other institutions, has allowed our Parliament to concentrate on its territory. Of course, it will take time for such radical management changes to reach the ideal level of application. With old habits, we experience the challenges of maintaining a new system in every field, but every day, we see that legislation, execution, and judgment improve itself in the new system. With new reforms, we're constantly moving the bar up to the top, covering the difficulties we've identified as legal and execution. Hopefully, Turkey will be an example of success for the world as well. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I believe our Parliament will perform very important work in this framework in the new year of legislation. I think the line between political competition and the country and the nation's service race should be our Assembly, where it is best placed and protected. I'd like to thank our deputies from every party that will contribute to the new parliamentary work. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, you've noticed that as a nation, we spend every year as a nation in a failure that we've seen over the past decades and so on. There are two important reasons for this situation. First, Turkey has implemented democratic and economic breakthroughs, which it has long neglected because of instability, strife, fights, crises. Of course, each of these breakthroughs has faced massive resistance, massive attacks by those whose interests have been damaged inside and out. With the support of our nation and its representative Congress, we have come to this day, one by one, to overcome the obstacles we face. The second reason for the acceleration of developments is because of the new fork in the way the world has come. The political and economic international order established by the victors after World War II is now breaking down in all areas. What happened during the period of the plague made this collapse much clearer. Starting with the United Nations, almost all of the institutions responsible for the functioning of the current global order in a way that embraces all humanity have been blocked. The new trials the world faces, new crises, these institutions that are ineffective in the face of new needs, increase vulnerability. In the event of a real crisis, countries called advanced have found that even their own citizens can't do well. After all, there's no chance that this twisted scheme will continue the same way, when the entire globe is mortgaged by a handful of contractors. For some time, the world is greater than the five ▪ we have expressed on each platform. The detection is the expression of this truth. (EC PARTY) Either the existing institutions will be rebuilt, reflecting security, stability and prosperity to the fullest of mankind, or new institutions will be built to meet that need. We think, despite everything, that this need can be met by the restructuring of existing institutions in accordance with fairness. When we first told them that global order needs to change, there were people who were distant. We see that after the spread of the epidemic, these segments are starting to support us. I'd like to repeat it here one more time. To the east and west of the world, north and south, every corner needs security. The world needs the peace of all people, no matter where it lives. The world needs a fair distribution of its resources for everyone. The air, water, trees, and all the beauty of the world, which our Lord has entrusted to us, needs to be protected. It is imperative that we establish a global governance system that will provide them. Otherwise, it will be inevitable that conflict, suffering, persecution, looting will begin again in a way that will touch developed countries all over the world. As Turkey, we strive to bring up solutions that would save humanity from such a threat, debate, and hopefully bring results. We are pleased to see that our Parliament has fulfilled its share in this framework. Dear lawmakers, as a country, we are at the centre of the geography, where global crises are the most common. The tragic massacres and conflicts in the Balkans some 30 years ago are still fresh, and it is evident that the region has not found lasting peace and peace. In the Black Sea, the crisis that began with the occupation of Crimea has the potential to climb again at any moment. Caucasus continues to qualify as a crisis zone, which has the potential for a new conflict with every inch of its territory. As a matter of fact, the conflict that began with the attack on Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) by Armenians who occupied Mount Karabağ is the most concrete example of this. Once again, I would like to point out that we are with our Azerbaijan brothers in their struggle to save their occupied land and protect their homeland. (AK PARTY, MHP and GOOD PARTY) It is not entirely acceptable for America, Russia, France, and them to seek a truce in the face of these negative developments, which have been reflected in the past 30 years since they neglected this problem. Do you want something? Then the invaders need to get out of this land, and we'll have a solution here. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Our Azerbaijan brothers, who have left a million square miles -- yes -- are now awaiting the day they return to their land; they are longing for it; no one will agree to it; first, let's put it on the table. We've talked to Mr. Putin. We've talked to Mr. Macron. But they've sat and talked and nothing. Now is the time for results, and our Azerbaijan brothers have taken steps to cut off their own belly. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The attitude of Armenians today is hypocritical to the invasion of the ancient Azerbaijan land of Karabagan and to those who are blind, deaf, and dumb in their civil slaughter. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) The word of those who stand by the invaders and defend their homeland and those who stand by them is of no value to us. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As Turkey, we will continue to support our Azerbaijan brothers, who we consider to be two states one nation, with all our means and heart. (AK PARTY and UMP's applause) At the time of the invasion of Karaböp, we live as if alive today, as if the late Abdurrahim Karakoc had expressed in the following verses: It came like this, it can't go on like this. And never will the harmdoers be successful. This game won't end as they hope. We have the bread and salt of the oppressed We have the essence of your wound. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Yes, this vile game that doesn't cure the oppressors, hopefully, breaks down. (EC PARTI and UMP rows) The path to lasting peace in this region passes through the withdrawal of every square inch of Azerbaijan territory the Armenians occupy. Armenia will not be able to save its administration from the insistence of slandering Turkey. I warn those who support this rogue state that they will be questioned before humanity's common conscience. May my Lord help and help our Azerbaijan brothers. [[AK PARTY rankings (also known as "Amin.")]] For those who have been martyred in this struggle, I ask God's mercy and healing for the wounded. My dear brothers, as we continue to look further south on the crisis map, we face the Gulf region. The Gulf region is still boiling from the Iranian-Iraq War to the invasion of Kuwait, from the conflicts in Yemen to the threats against Qatar. On this occasion, I ask Allah's mercy to Al-Ahmet Al-Cabir Al-Babir Sabah, a Kuwaiti Emir who died the day before, who was one of the intelligent and discreet rulers of the region. Unlike the late Al-Air, the policies of some countries in the region have deepened the crisis by denying themselves, by reason, by reason, by mercy, by conscience. Some of these countries are targeting us because we speak the truth, because we stand by the oppressed and the righteous. It must not be forgotten that the countries in question did not exist yesterday, and they probably won't be tomorrow. But by Allah's leave, we will continue to wave our flag in this geography forever. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Since the Gulf War in Iraq, instability has damaged our country the most. For years, the separatist terrorist organization has used Iraq's borders as a base and committed bloody acts in our country. Recently, within the scope of our strategy to eradicate the terror threat from its source, we are one by one destroying the nests of organizations on the Iraqi border. We'll continue our operations until we've completed these trials that the Northern Iraqi Regional Administration is uncomfortable with. It is our greatest hope that the Baghdad administration will soon ensure political unity and territorial integrity in the country, as well as the rights of our Turkmen brothers. The Syrian crisis, which reached its tenth year in our region, is undoubtedly the most tragic, bloodiest, most painful issue of our geography. Moreover, we are deeply interested in every aspect of this matter. First of all, we have a 911-mile limit with this country. People living on both sides of the border share a history of thousands of years. There are many deep, deep human, cultural, social, and even economic relationships that have come with this profound past. Syria has always been in a critical position in Turkey's 40-year fight against terrorism. Moreover, in the last decade when the country has become unstable, the most effective terrorist organisations here have become DEAŞ and PKK/YPG, and are still trying to maintain its integrity. We welcome nearly four million people in our cities who have escaped persecution and war in Syria. In the same way, we provide for the 4 million underdogs within Syria. If there is one country in the world that has the right to intervene in every aspect of the Syrian issue, it is Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Whoever says, "What is Turkey doing in Syria? " Either he doesn't know the region and its history or he's doing other calculations in his head. Turkey will continue to use every means and method to secure its borders until there is a solution to the country's political unity and territorial integrity and so on in Syria. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] For this purpose have we done the Shield of the River, and the branch of the Olive, and the operation of the Fountain of Peace, and that is what we are in Idlib. We didn't hand our borders over to terrorist organizations and those who used them as tongs, and we won't. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We'll stay out of the areas we've secured, and we'll continue our operations until we destroy the last terrorist in any case, the source of the attacks on our country and our brothers. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] And when it comes to it, we will continue to take on human rights, human rights, and those who do not lower respect to the other, and those who turn their backs on them, and those who do not seek to enter their homes. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In the European Parliament, we have again had a member of our country who raised the issue of over 100,000 missing refugee children in Europe. It is the European Union that has promised our country 3 billion euros plus 3 billion euros for the maintenance of Syrian asylum seekers, ibate and housing -- this is very important -- and then brought water from 40 creeks -- and then lies on most of it -- and they're not speaking right, they're not being honest. We tell them everything in numbers. You want proof? Come and see our investments, but they don't suit you. We don't expect our country to understand the righteous attitude of our country, even those who put aside humanity's minimum conditions with their own security and welfare concerns. So far, the volunteer and safe return of 411,000 Syrians shows that our country is doing the right thing. Turkey is the most influential supporter of efforts on international platforms to find a political solution to the crisis in Syria. Hopefully, until that day comes, we will continue to protect our borders and protect the oppressed. Dear lawmakers, developments in the Eastern Mediterranean are Turkey's most important battle on the seas in the last few centuries. This year, we reached the 482nd anniversary of Preveze Sea Victory, and we established peace in the Mediterranean. We had won great victories in the sea, as in the land of Çanakkale, the story of our resurrection. It is the debt of every son of this country to claim the legacy of peace left by Barbaros Iştin Pasha and other heroes. As Turkey, we are never seeking conflict, tension, injustice, unlawfulness in the Mediterranean. All we ask is that our country be respected for its rights, its law, its interests. It is our primary preference to resolve disputes over the sharing of political and economic potential in the Mediterranean on the basis of fairness. However, the attitude that Greece and the Greek Cypriots have shown since 2003 is unfortunately far from that principle. The European Union has become an ineffective, virtually shallow structure of Greece and the Greek Cypriots. There is not a single problem in our region that has emerged and has been resolved by the initiative and weight of the European Union. On the contrary, every crisis involving the Union has grown to new dimensions. In front of this painting, Turkey has no choice but to act decisively on its own resources and policies. Our agreement with Libya is just one of the answers we have made to our country's total liquidation initiatives from the Mediterranean. With this agreement, we have been able to spread our efforts to protect the rights of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus into a much wider area. After years of ignoring our country in the region, those who came up with maps and demands to trap us on our shores tried the language of threats and blackmail first. In addition to Turkey's political and diplomatic power, they were forced to accept the method of dialogue in the face of our heroic army's firm stance with land, sea and air elements and intelligence. At this point, especially when it comes to the intense efforts of Germany, it is the choice of those who are faced with conflict if it comes to resolving the issue through talks or raising tensions. We will maintain our firm stance, which keeps the dialogue channels open until the end. How many countries have sacrificed as much as Turkey, fighting for peace in a world where conflict has escalated? Isn't it proof that we're not the world's largest economy, but we're first in humanitarian aid? Is it not proof that despite the security risks and economic burden of our borders, we are home to the most refugees in the world? Isn't it proof that we always use our strength and initiatives on every platform from the United Nations to the Islamic Co-operation Agency? In light of these facts, we invite all countries, especially our European Union and neighbors, to support Turkey's fight for security and peace, at least to respect this struggle. Another crisis followed by our country and our nation with precision is Israel's persecution of the Palestinians and its reckless practices of Jerusalem's privacy. Here I find it particularly useful to emphasize that the matter of Jerusalem is not an ordinary geopolitical problem for us. First of all, the physical view of the ancient city, which is the heart of Jerusalem, is now built by Sultan Süleyman of the Law, with its walls, with its marketplace, with many buildings. For centuries, our apocalypse has held this city on its hands and paid its respects. In this city, which we had to leave in tears during World War I, it is still possible to find signs of Ottoman resistance. So Jerusalem is our city, a city of our own. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Our first qiblah is the symbols of our faith in Al Aksa and the Dome of the Sahara in Jerusalem. Also, this city is home to the sacred places of Christianity and Judaism. And the fact that the land of the Palestinian people, who have been residents of Jerusalem and the region for thousands of years, has been invaded, violated, and their rights and laws, requires that we take good care of the matter. It is an honor on behalf of our country and our nation to declare the rights of the oppressed Palestinian people that we have lived on for centuries. With that understanding, we will be followers of the Palestinian cause as well as of the Jerusalem case. Precious lawmakers are one of the most targeted elements of Turkey's intense attack on travel events, as well as the economy. Finally, in August 2018, we had a very strong look in 2019, once again, by disrupting the trap set on our economy through the wolf. As a matter of fact, last year the current balance of transactions increased by 8.8 billion dollars, inflation dropped to 11.8 per cent, and the percentage of the budget deficit reduced to less than 3 per cent. Again, with the exports of 181 billion dollars in 2019, we ranked sixth in terms of export growth among the 50 countries of the world. So we've brought our share of the world's exports to one percent. Despite all the negativity, after 2019, when we kept the annual growth rate at a level of close to one percent, we began to have high hopes for 2020. In the first quarter of this year, the growth rate of 4.4 per cent was a sign that we were moving forward with determination towards our goals. That's how we got caught in a climate like this, in a pandemic of coronavirus, which has completely dominated our country together. Of course, during the outbreak, our priority was to protect the health of our nation. Besides, with the support packages we've announced, we've tried to ensure that our economy comes out of the epidemic with minimal damage. The total economic size of the supports and packages that we have announced so far has found 495 billion dollars, about 10 percent of our national income. We paid our nation and our economy over $35 billion unrequited under the roof of the social protection shield. In this context, through a short work grant, we've transferred almost $19 billion of resources directly to our employees so far. We used close to $4.5 billion in cash support to protect the employment. We actively assessed the unemployment allowance, offering $3.6 billion in support to the benefit of our people. The RSR payments we've postponed are worth $40 billion, while the tax payments are close to $30 billion. We've supported our economy through tax cuts, insubstantial reasons, loan guarantee fund limit increases. We encouraged public banks to transfer over $267 billion of funding into our economy. With methods such as individual needs support, trade support, continued support, institutional and individual credit delays, we have ensured that each section needs financing. The 9.9 per cent negative growth in the second quarter of the year is, of course, upsetting, but as a general picture, Turkey, OECD and the European Union have left this process behind with a narrowing down, much lower than its averages. All preliminary indicators of the third quarter point to the rapid recovery of the economy and that the losses will soon be compensated. Every index and data explained supports and forwards this table. Despite the shortage of external demand caused by the outbreak in the world economy, our exports have increased by 4.8 billion dollars compared to the same month last year. I'd like to make it very clear that this is the largest September export in the history of the Republic. Our goal is to make a recovery of the V-type and close this year at positive growth. The growth rate we set for next year is 5.8 percent. In fact, although we believed that there would be a greater growth, we chose to keep the expectation on a cautious level. After all his attacks and shock, the Turkish economy has become more resistant to vulnerability, more prepared for crises. Many states, including the developed countries, have failed to prevent a concussion in health care during the epidemic from complicating all economies and new management systems. In all these areas, Turkey has become the rising star of its region and of the world, with a positive dissolution. (AK PARTY) OECD has shown the Turkish economy as the third economy in the world that is at least affected by the epidemic. We are better off than developed and developing countries, even when it comes to a partial increase in budget deficits. The World Bank's Doing Business Index shows the success of our structural reforms, rising from 10 digits to 33. We built the New Economy Programme, which covers the next three years, on an innovative, high-profile, export-oriented, and inclusive development model. Hopefully, we'll get Turkey to our goals in the economy as well as in all areas. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear MPs have yet to find a definitive cure for Covid-19 disease, which began in China and soon spread to the world. While vaccine studies have reached a certain level, it is clear that time is needed to establish infrastructure that will encompass humanity altogether. In addition to closely monitoring vaccine studies in other countries, Turkey is also keen on producing its own vaccine. When we look at other countries around the world's methods of fighting the epidemic, we see that Turkey is ahead of most of them. Of course, in this positive table, the great transformation in health care over the past 18 years and the infrastructure that we've built have contributed greatly. Since March alone, when the epidemic spreads to our country, the capacity of the hospitals we have opened has exceeded 15,000. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We'll take this beautiful picture of health one step further by opening the official opening of our city hospital in Iconium tomorrow. Our number of health workers has reached the highest rate of employment in the public area at 1 million,100,000. If Turkey hadn't developed its healthcare system and capacity this far, God forbid, it would have been exposed to this epidemic. On this occasion, I would like to express my gratitude once again to our health workers who have served with sacrifice during the epidemic. Again, I ask for God's mercy on our health workers who have been visiting eternity in this process. With the government and the nation in hand, I hope we can overcome this plague. We, Turkey, have responded to the call for support of 153 different countries and 8 international organisations, as well as maintaining our services to our own citizens while fighting the epidemic. In addition, we brought over 100,000 citizens from 141 different countries of the world to our country by the air, land and sea bridges that we have established. In addition, we have allowed 5,500 foreigners from 67 different countries to return to their country. In the time of the epidemic, when even developed countries abandoned their citizens, Turkey put a truly virtuous stand inside and out. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Neither our country nor the world has been able to prevent the outbreak. The process has been kept under control, thanks to our timely measures and effective treatment protocols developed in our country. We will continue this struggle decisively until the day the outbreak is no longer a threat to natural or drug treatment. Our most effective anti-contagion measure is the cleaning, the mask, the distance elements, which we refer to as the "TAMAM". Let us all hope that we will overcome this virus together, and we will continue to walk together to a healthy, peaceful, peaceful, peaceful future. With such feelings, I once again wish that the 27th Year of the Great National Assembly of Turkey, the Fourth Legislature, would be good for our country, our nation, our MPs. I wish you ease in the work of the House. I salute you all with love. Peace be with you.
tbmm-2020-10-01sit01spe0003par0115	[[Standing ovations from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, the Council of Counsellors has a proposal that I will have you read and vote on. The following proposal was approved by the General Assembly at the Council's 1/10/2020 meeting on Thursday (now). Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Hakı Saruhan Oluç Erkan Akçay Peoples' Democratic Party National Movement Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. According to Article 104 of the Constitution, the President has been advised that no other work should be discussed after the opening of the 27th Year of the Fourth Legislation of the Turkish Parliament. I submit the counsel board proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the recommendation of the Council of Counsel has been accepted. Members of parliament, since the decision has been made today that there is no further agenda, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (October 6th 2020) to discuss business in order of our agenda. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
