tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 2nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Gaziantep MP Abdullah Nejat Koker, who asked for a comment on Gaziantep's industry and economy. Here you go, Mr. Coacher.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. With the same spirit and faith of Gaziantep, the name of 6,317 martyrs and thousands of veterans named by our Veteran Assembly in 1921, I will speak today of our country's contribution, determination, courage, to the growth of our country, economic development. Gaziantep, the productive city of entrepreneurs, has the largest organised industrial regions in Turkey. In total, 1,100 facilities are produced in five organised industrial areas, 210,000 people are employed. In the last five years, 230 companies have been earmarked to our 602-party industrialists in the last fiveth organised industrial district and have been in production in the last four years since the allocation of the region. 70 new facilities in our other four organised industrial districts, where investors used to be located, were built by our president, the official opening of these facilities. There are still 50 factories in the 5th district. Gaziantep is also a pioneer and model city that has contributed the most to Turkey's economic development process, with its figures in writing a major success story in the industry. With about $8 billion exported, Gaziantep, Turkey's fifth exporting province, exports to 176 countries around the world, increased 15.3 per cent in exports of $762m in September by 1.644 exporters, and broke the export record of all time. Also in September, Gaziantep OSB broke the record of all time, with an increase of 487 million kilowatts of electricity and 12.4 per cent. Investments have not only increased our country's competitiveness, but have also maintained medical and food security in the pandemic process. The fabric and medical products facilities that provide the need for our country's mask, and the pasta, particularly, have been our food safety facilities, our industrial facilities, which have been the key to the pandemic process. I applaud and thank you today from here, from the Great National Assembly of Turkey, from the stand of the nation, from Gaziantep, from the entrepreneurs, from the desperate investors of Gaziantep, from the engineers and workers who work in our factories, from the people who transport our products to the world, the exporters and the laborers. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] There's a great success story going on. This success is a true and admirable success story that has cost Turkey. Our production facilities, which our president opened, are important because of the investments made by our new entrepreneurs and our former industrialists. The entrepreneurial spirit continues; as industrialists of the years continue to invest in new areas, with entrepreneurial spirit, the number of new industrialists is increasing, producing and employing. We are honored to welcome those who would like to visit our industry and witness this success story in our city. As Gaziantep, we also have the pride of hosting a very important organization such as TEKNOFEST, while opening new industrial facilities, bringing Turkey's most projects to the technology festival. Any mistake that will cloud the success of the Gaziantep industry, ignore this great entrepreneur's spirit, will hurt it and break its spirit. It is necessary to give thanks to all who produce, produce, and employ. When our desperate entrepreneurs write a great success story, we all have to hold onto it together and support it. Gaziantep, on the one hand, will continue to contribute the most to Turkey's economic development process, with its industry and initiative, on the other hand, as a city of historical, cultural heritage and gastronomy. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish you the best of our new year of life, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0003par0020	The second non-responsive statement belongs to Bursa MP Erkan Aydın, who wants to talk about the impact of the pandemic on society. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0004par0024	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have taken a word out of the agenda, and I salute your grand delegation with love and respect, and I wish our new year of life to our people and to the valued members. The pandemic has really affected all of our lives, but even in this pandemic process, mistakes in the work have not been reduced, on the contrary, multiplied. The best example of these is the Court Reports from the Ministry of Health of Health in 2019, 200 pages or so. In addition, there are many reports concerning the city of Bursa Hospital, which had just been opened in July of last year. There's been so much irregularity over a period of six months, it hasn't taken nearly 200 pages. We're looking at what's been done: a year after construction started, the contract period was started, and the contract that would last for twenty-five years took advantage of a year, so they started construction in 2016, and they started construction in 2017. Many medical supplies, devices have been transferred here, but there's no record of any registration receipts, no donation receipts, no records to the Ministry of Health system, no accounting, no transparency about the rent payments. We've been saying this for years: open the contracts to the public, open them to us. They didn't open it, but they didn't open it, and it's not transparent in these reports -- as a result of the inspection -- how much the rents are being accounted for, how much they're made of. In the same way, the contractor who was supposed to meet his obligations at the Bursa City Hospital for landscaping has not fulfilled any of them, but has taken all the money and paid full payment. No sanctions have been carried out on any of the cases that haven't been delivered in time, so whoever did it got away with it. The guy took his money in his day and did the job half-time, and as a result, he put the money in his pocket like hell. Many of the additional tasks have not been done, commercial areas have not been shown in the income department, nor has the government been given any shares due to the unspecified income, nor has the state been given any of them. There are more problems with new hospitals and these city hospitals, which are around 10 in Turkey. I wanted to say these things, even though there's pandemics here. In fact, we made a revolution in health. You came saying, "You have brought health upon the citizen." City hospitals and other health care problems don't fit in here in five minutes. I'd like to announce another crisis right in front of us and finish my speech. You know, it's flu season, and there's a flu vaccine problem in the country. We went through the same trouble last year. The vaccines that came in August earlier, unfortunately, came in the middle of October, and they still don't. There's a lot of chaos in the pharmacy. Pharmaceuticals, pharmacies, are tired of explaining it to citizens, patients, day and night. They're fighting hard over there. The citizen says: "The vaccine came to my superior neighbor last year, and he didn't come to me. Why did you separate me? You couldn't distribute five masks in the pandemic process, you couldn't find alcohol for disinfectant, and now we have a flu vaccine crisis. We've warned the Ministry of Health over and over again that in May, the World Health Organization determines them. From that time forward, provide vaccines for patients who need 83 million, especially people over the age of 65, who are chronically ill. We said, "No, but a crisis similar to a mask crisis is at hand." He's only going to be vaccinated like a million of 83 million of our citizens. There'll be 20 or 30 vaccines per pharmacy. Who's going to share this, how? I ask my colleagues, not as a politician but as a pharmacist, to make it easy on them because God is expecting a difficult process and I invite the authorities to take precautions, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0005par0032	The third unscheduled statement belongs to Mersin MP Baki Simsek, who wants to speak about Mersin's problems. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0006par0036	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to discuss the problems of Mersin. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, it is clear that Turkish enemies have taken a hostile turn in different geographys. We send our prayers to our brothers and sisters, the only nation, who have fought heroically in the Turkish homeland of Mount Karabağ, and we say that we are always there for them. There's no difference between us, there's no distance, there's no distance, there's two states we're one nation; the blood flowing in the same vein, the soul beating in the same skin, we're one, together, we're Turkey and Azerbaijan, and together we're the great Turkish nation. It must not be forgotten that Mount Karabakh is a Turk, the home of Azerbaijan Turkia. He says that we are with Azerbaijan with our blood, with our lives, with our presence, and I pray for God's mercy on our brothers from Azerbaijan, who have been martyred by Armenian gangs. Dear MPs, Mersin has 200 miles [320 km] long coastline, a city of tourism with beaches, coves and natural beauty, and a real cultural city and a earthly paradise with various religious and cultural riches. Mersin is a unique city that bears witness to history with its geographical location and thousands of years of cultural treasure. Mersin is one of Turkey's leading provinces in the agricultural sector with its proper climate and natural resources. Lemons, oranges, grapes, pomegranates, bananas, strawberries, apricots, and olives are first in production. Mersin contributes to the economy in the agricultural sector as well as through the export channel. The total annual agricultural products rank first in Turkey's export volume. However, the biggest problem in agriculture is the lack of sufficient watering due to the failure of dams. When the ongoing dams are finished, agricultural production and exports will double, and Mersin will become the engine of agriculture. The rural population is aging, the young population is migrating to the city. Production products should be sold by processing, and agricultural industries should be established. Farmer's debts must be postponed; soy, cotton and corn must be supported, export doors must be kept open. Dear lawmakers, the biggest problem in agriculture is water. Especially in the summer months, in villages and plateaus, there is a shortage of drinking water and watering water in the fields -- in pine, in the Eye, in the Ayvagedi -- and in the fields. Unfortunately, even though our water resources are sufficient, the failure of existing dams, the failure of pipes and canals is a major problem for our people and farmers living in the villages of Mersin, a town of agriculture. We want the Interrogation, Millençay, Aksifate and Anamur Alaköru Dams to be finished as soon as possible, especially at the Cotton Dam. When the dams are finished, much of the land from Adana to Antalya will be watered. 85% complete in cottonland, the Alakörrü has run out of trunks, and the irrigation water project is under way. The surge is 55 per cent, the mill is 20 per cent, the interrogation is 75 per cent. Dear lawmakers, another important problem with Mersin is transportation. The Silifke-Mut road is now closed due to the landslide, and the work has been going on for months. In particular, tradesmen and citizens along the road have suffered a great deal. Unfortunately, transportation is still being made through Gulnar. The alternative road here and the road to Mut, which has been shut down due to the landslide between Silifke-Mut, must be cleared for transport immediately. The construction of Çukurova Airport must now be completed and served in the service of our nation. The construction of the fountain-Slayer highway must begin immediately. The Mersin-Antalia road, especially the part between Aydıncık-Anamur and Anamur-Gazipaşa, we want the tender to be made, the tunnels and roads here to be completed immediately, and the Mersin-Antalia road to continue uninterrupted. The road to Tarsus-Camlia must be resolved, especially the issue of the trans-Tarsus-Lash nationalization, open for transport. We'd like to have a car exam station in Tarsus. In Adana, the intercity highway is free of charge, the highway between 4ways and Ireland is free of charge, but the Inter-Tarsus-Mersin highway is paid for. There's no explanation for that. The inter-Tersus-Mersin highway must be made free, and the Eshab-i Kehf exit must be opened to traffic. Honorable MPs, there is no natural gas in any of the districts of Mersin. My virtuous people, Silifke, Aydıncık, Bozyaz, Anamur, Mut, Gülnar and Pinelya are waiting for natural gas. The project was launched in Mut, Erdemlı and Anamur. We demand that other counties be included in the investment programme. I'd like to thank everyone who founded the University of Tarsus for their hard work. But we're the only borough that has no home to KYK, which is his university. That's why we want a KYK home in our county.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0007par0047	Finish what you're saying. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0006par0048	Honourable MPs, Eshab-i Kehf-i, Danyal Aleyhissalam, St. Paul is an important city for the ancient city of Heaven-Hell, Pompeopolis, the Islamic world, Christianity and the Jewish world, and faith tourism. Mersin should get his share of tourism, invest in tourism areas. Kazanlı, Karluk, Gülık, Narcikuyu, Akyar, Bogsak, Ovacık, Kargcak, Middleburun and Melleç must be implemented immediately. Mersin City Hospital, Anamur, Mut, Silifke State Hospitals have entered our nation's service. Nearing the end of Tarsus State Hospital, the construction of the government's mansion is now under way. Also, Adana-Mersin is approaching the end of the fast train. I thank everyone who's done the deed and pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0008par0052	Congressmans, I will now promise the first 15 lawmakers who enter the system to their place for a minute. Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0009par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I wish that the year of the fourth legislature of the 27th century, first, be good for our nation, for our country. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey will be with the oppressed, the victim, and the people whose lands have been occupied in the land of Karabagh for the past 30 years, as it is with Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan), who has been occupied for the past 30 years, in the face of the world's injustices in this year of the legislature. As of 1988, I strongly condemn the invader Armenia, who systematically occupied Azerbaijan's lands, who did not end the occupation, who did not leave his occupations and slaughtered civilians. I condemn colonial states who use Armenia as pawns and feed on blood and turmoil. The two states say that Azerbaijan, the one nation, is on the side of the righteous cause of Azerbaijan, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0010par0059	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0011par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. There are over 3 million public school students in our country who don't have Internet or television in the home of 750 thousand students. Turkey lost its life by falling off its roof to connect with the EBA in 21st-century Turkey, which is the 70th place on the list of students with access to the Internet connection. The minister of 18 years of power continues to serve as the minister of the palace, far from the truth and public enough to see the problem in the EBA as a positive development. More than seven months have passed since the closing of the schools on March 6th, and only yesterday, students were told that 500,000 tablets would be distributed. Of course, ritual is a thing, you don't talk about it. You were handing out 10 million tablets in the FATIH Project, and you couldn't even distribute 2 million tablets, let alone 10 million tablets. Your citizen has no money left to waste on your rant love, I warn you. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0012par0065	Mr. Yilmakaya...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0013par0067	Mr. President, no department in the health sciences faculty is remotely taught, contrary to the nature of education. Among them, unfortunately, is the development of children. Children's development is the basis for the development and education of human life that begins from childhood. Words cannot describe the meaning of child development training that lays the basis for children's beginnings in life. Today, tampering with the settings of this profession will cause major problems in the long run. While there are 7,000 students in the field school, the fact that there are only 80,000 students in the 3rd grade shows just how right the struggle is. They don't realize they're playing with the country's future if they don't hear the screams of children's development graduates fighting for tomorrows. It is betrayal of both the country and our children in open education that has allowed society to rise above solid foundations, the development of children who carry new generations to the future in a healthy way. Let's take care of the training of child development for our children, who have all our futures. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0012par0069	Mr. Bankoglu...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0014par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. Their bike deaths increase every year because of the collisions caused by motorized vehicles. These bikers are losing their lives, even when they're rear-ended in the safety lane. Because of the insensitiveness of the drivers, our bikers are losing their lives. Our bikers in 81 counties have demands. They want to work on the development of bicycle transport. In this sense, we also call the ministries and local governments: Speed limits must be controlled, bicycles must be accepted by drivers as vehicles, and safety lanes must be separated; universal rules must be taken into curriculum and to be settled on respect, because safe bicycle transportation is right. Not the horn, hit the brakes, end the bike deaths in traffic. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0015par0074	Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0016par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. This is about the GES project in Küçükbahçe district of Karaburun district of İzmir Province. This area is within the borders of a special environment protection zone. No need to report, and the deed appears to be an olive tree field in the cadastro system. It's a dense forest area on satellite images. Right now, he's out there with 300 acres of business machines like a cotton dollop. And a hundred acres shaved. The only wetlands of the Blackburin peninsula are several hundred meters from Lake Iris. It's also an important area for migratory birds. I'm asking the Minister of Environment how you allowed this ecological genocide, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0015par0078	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0017par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we have been informed by our President that the students will receive 500,000 tablets. I thank you all for your hard work. Of course, especially our rural students are having trouble accessing the Internet. Through Internet-accessed cell-phone transmitters... which are now required to provide free internet access... to support our students in this pandemic process... and to provide Internet access, especially through mobile phone transmitters, our students living in the country, who can't access the Internet. He says thank you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0015par0082	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0018par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. In Hodjal, Armenia, who had committed an unimaginable massacre without saying women and children, had occupied Karabağ for thirty years and persecuted the Turks, tried to invade Azerbaijan ten days ago and opened fire on civilians. So when the Azerbaijan responses, and Armenia begins to suffer heavy losses, don't be a warmonger, let's solve it at the table. Those who think they're opposed should know that peace will be signed when the right conditions arise with Armenia, who disregarded the United Nations decision. The condition is that Armenia abandons the land that is occupied. Those who are with Assad in Syria, and Sisi in Egypt, and Hafter in Libya, and Pashinyan in Karabağ; remember that we are brothers with Azerbaijan in peace and war.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0019par0087	Mr. Sun...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0020par0089	Mr. President, just six years ago, 37 citizens have been killed, 761 citizens injured, two of whom have been police officers in 35 districts and 96 districts, following the call of the HDP Central Executive Board as an excuse for Kobani. 131 street incidents, 197 schools burned down, 269 public buildings destroyed, 731 homes and businesses looted and 1.230 vehicles unusable. I ask God's mercy on our brothers who have died in these events. I condemn those who have done and those who have done these things. The responsible say that sooner or later he will answer to justice, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0019par0091	Mr. Kaya...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0021par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I wish that the year of the fourth legislature of the 27th century be good for our country. It is a crime of humanity, a clear violation of international law, that Armenia has targeted one of the largest cities of Azerbaijan, Gence. Because of this attack, I strongly condemn Armenia, who once again showed that there was a state of persecution. The massacrer Armenian gangs and their mentality are repeating the same cruelly today as they have done in the past. Armenia! You're cruel and cruel. Just so you know, the mountain is the home of the Turks of Karabağ Azerbaijan. With Azerbaijan, there is no difference between us and Azerbaijan. We two states are one nation. The same blood flowing through the same vein, the same skin-beating soul. Once again, I want to express that we are with our brothers in the righteous struggle of Azerbaijan. I pray for God's mercy to our fellow martyrs, and for our wounded, and for a speedy healing. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0022par0097	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0023par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish the Great National Assembly of Turkey's 27th Year of the Fourth Legislature to be good for our MPs, our Veteran Assembly, our beloved nation and our country. I strongly condemn Armenia's attacks on civilians in Azerbaijan on the morning of September 27th. With no presence against the heroic army of Azerbaijan, Armenia has once again violated the truce by attacking civilian settlements with treachery, showing the world that it opposes peace and stability. We are with our Azerbaijan brothers until the end of these attacks. We ask God's mercy for our Azerbaijan brothers who died in the attacks. Azerbaijan is not alone; he always has the full support of Turkey. Turkey says it's a guarantee of peace and peace in our region, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0024par0102	Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0025par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish the Fourth Year of Law to be a cause for good deeds for our nation and our state, and I respectfully remember all of our MPs who have served under the roof of our Veteran Assembly today. October 1 7th is celebrated as the week of the mosques and the clergy. Mosques are not just buildings of stone, brick, concrete, but the hearts of our cities. The mosques carry out the same function, as the mosques gather around all the faithful at the Masjid Nebevi Medina, in the House of Mecca. It's impossible to think of our mosques as separate from our clergy. I salute the General Assembly, not only to the congregation who spends most of their time in the mosque at five hours of the day, but to this meaningful week of religious officials who are interested in all members of the community.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0026par0108	Dear Earth...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0027par0110	Mr. President, our dear lawmakers, our beloved nation, watching us at the beginning of their television, are fighting relentlessly against the Covid-19 virus, which has killed over 8,000 people worldwide and one million people in our country. With the determination of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the great zeal of our scientists, our efforts to develop local vaccines and medicine continue rapidly. There are 13 vaccine studies throughout our country. One of these vaccine studies is the joint work of Adıyaman University and Adıyaman VETAL ASH. It's very flattering for our country to have completed animal trials and human trials in vaccine development. Our country's success also attracts the attention of the world's public. The World Health Organization has issued a report today on Turkey's fight against Covid-19. This report illustrates the world's ability to send humanitarian aid to countries who need firm measures, health treatments, hospitals, and health equipment. Two key figures in the World Health Organization Turkey report: Death rates are far below the world average and Turkey has turned its young population into an advantage. We want to thank everyone who's done their best to be our President in the first place.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0028par0114	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0029par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. The only product in Turkey where the price has not increased in a year is raw milk. As the price of food increases exponentially, the cost increases, while the price of raw milk is the same. $2.30 a year. The point of not giving raw milk a year at these costs is that, manufacturer, you can't quit this job, cut off your animals, get out of production, animalism can't be done at these prices. You don't raise the price of the manufacturer's milk, but cheese prices, oil prices, they're going up. What you're doing is making the manufacturer miserable, and it's no use to the consumer. The emergency is to increase the supply of raw milk, and the dairy animals go to the slaughter. At this rate, you start importing milk, which is not supported by importing cheese from Venezuela. Today's meat imports, tomorrow's milk imports, and then the repeats of local and national. You don't become native and national by eating Venezuelan cheese and Serbian meat.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0028par0118	Mr. Karasu...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0030par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. In our village of Sivas Ili Çağırt, Ağrıyurt, Kurtoğlu and Kangal district, Pool, Egyptören, Körencik, Humarlı, Hamal and Yaylacık damaged about 30,000 acres of land in the region last August. Although our farmers have been promised to pay for the damage they suffered during the passing of time, there has been no improvement yet. Our farmers, who should have planted their field in time of seed, can't plant their field because they can't afford to pay for the full damage. On the other hand, the uninsured and uninsured distinction between our farmers increases the victimism a whole lot more. I would like to invite the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to compensate for the damage that has been done between our farmers without segregation and to address the immediate loss.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0031par0123	Mr. Gunpowder...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0032par0125	Mr. President, according to the Turkish Statistical Institution's September inflation data, consumer inflation was 0.97 per cent in September, while 12 months of inflation was 11.75 per cent. In the last two months, Turkish lira has lost 11.6 per cent, but consumer prices have increased by less than 1%. The TİK, which should be researching the facts in scientific ways and explaining the facts to the public, should not be a tool for government perception operations. The government must provide a solution to our poor people who are quickly approaching 11 million unemployed, who can't pay what they're making, who can't pay what they owe. In our country, where the hunger limit is $2.448, about 2 million workers are trying to hold on to life at $39 a day. The people of the palaces must stop this strange gureba deception, this fire must be extinguished. We're going to do what we can't do with our projects, which are based on manufacturing and producing. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0033par0129	Congressmans, I will now meet the demands of the Deputy Directors of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0034par0132	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we began our work today for the Fourth Year of Law in the 27th term. I pray to God that our activities are good for our nation and our Veteran Assembly. And I wish our MPs the best of luck with their work. I think this year of legislation should be parallel to the agendas that directly concern our nation. I think we should concentrate on legislature activities that will comfort our citizens as economics, security and prosperity. AS A GOOD PARTY, we, the officer, the worker, the farmer, the tradesman, the pensioner, will continue to bring the problems of our citizens to the agenda of Parliament in this year's legislature. In this pandemic process, we will continue to keep animal rights, violence, child abuse on the agenda, including the demands of our health workers, and to present relevant legal proposals to the House. We'll work for our people again. In Operation Yıldırım-3, which was carried out in the rural district of Eastbayazıt of Ağrı, I ask for the mercy of the family and the head of our grieving nation who were injured in the terrorist conflict and were killed in the hospital. The conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia at Mount Karabağ has entered its tenth day. We believe that Armenia's atrocities against civilians and that Azerbaijan's righteous struggle should be explained better diplomatically to the world. AS A GOOD PARTY, we are with you at all times in the righteous war of the Azerbaijan army, which is on five different fronts north and east of the Mountain Karabağ. Like we always say, life, blood, blood, blood, blood, race, race. Azerbaijan is Turkey; Turkey is Azerbaijan. God be with the Turk, and Azerbaijan be with him.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0035par0138	Complete your words, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0034par0139	Today, after a period of actual occupation, which took place on 13 November 1918 and lasted four years and ten months and 23 days, we realize the 97th year of the liberation of Istanbul, the pupil of Turkey, from the occupation. On October 6, 1923, the Turkish nation, who welcomed the Turkish army, set the deserved victory as a day of salvation and celebrated it with holiday cheer. Peace be upon the Turkish army, who sent the invaders as they came, who laid hands on the relics of the conqueror. I remember our heroes of the Battle of Salvation, first Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, with gratitude, respect, and mercy, God rest their souls. Today is the 30th anniversary of the death of Bahriye Threeok. In the 30th year of his death, I honor the first female academic of the University of Ankara Faculty of Theology, the historian, political scientist, who lost his life because of the bomb that was planted in a book and sent to his house.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0036par0144	I'll take your last words, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0034par0146	:President, we haven't spoken in two months, give us a little time, we've had words in us for two months.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0036par0147	Today, at the rally point of implementation, we had a meeting with our Deputy Speakers. We want to comply as much as possible with the decisions that have been made. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0034par0149	You've only spoken to the Deputy Speakers of the House, you've never spoken to the Deputy Directors of the Group.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0036par0150	Mr. Speaker will do that, too. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0034par0152	Inflation figures have been released, but since we don't trust the Turkish Statistical Agency, there's no need to consider the numbers. Because in the last year, electricity has been increased by 32.3 per cent and natural gas by 34.7 per cent, but annual inflation has been announced at 11.75 per cent. The dollar's been up 31 percent since New Year's. If they were to reflect at the same rate on imported goods, they might actually encounter the actual number of inflations. You can't hide real inflation in a country where everything is imported. Everyone who spends a little time in the market, in the market, is aware that inflation isn't explained because if the real inflation is announced, they're going to have to raise salaries and rents a lot. Instead of not crushing the citizens with inflation, not lowering their buying power and increasing the level of prosperity, we are faced with a power that makes our nation difficult and condemns hunger and suffering. Finally, I'd like to talk about our province of Sivas. Sivas, unfortunately, is not present in the fields of cannabis that agricultural producers are eagerly waiting for. During the period of time, no work has been carried out, even though President Erdogan had announced that the land on the Malatya border and on the Tokat border had been sown and had previously been added to the 20 provinces of Sivas. Sivasian manufacturers expect their commitments to be kept and supported.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0036par0155	Finish what you're saying.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0034par0156	About four years ago, a project was developed under the name Seyfebeli Industrial Zone in Sivas. Although the president and the administration of this region have been determined, it has not yet been more than a project, there is still no industrial area, and there is no industry in this region, has this project been put on the shelf? What is the problem with this project, which has been announced in the hope that it will be beneficial to Sivas, that it will contribute to industry, to the tradesman, and why is it still not implemented? Sivas wants to know the answers to these questions. Finally, I'd like to say about Sivas. The Aksu Project in the center of the city, the Dedebalı neighborhood, and its surroundings have become a complete wreck, a settlement that is disturbing the city's peace, this area must be opened quickly and this evil image must end. Thank you, Mr. President, and I salute the great Parliament.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0037par0159	Mr. Akçay, please come in.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0038par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable lawmakers, I celebrate the start of the 27th Year of the Great National Assembly of Turkey's Fourth Legislature, and I hope that this year of legislature will be a blessing to our country, to our nation, to our nation, to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and to our members of the Grand National Assembly and to our valued staff. Mr. President, Armenia occupied 20 per cent of Azerbaijan's territory with its attacks from 1991 to 1993 and carried out massacres without saying children, women, or old. In front of the world on February 26, 1992, on March 27, 1993, Armenia slaughtered hundreds of innocents in Kelbecer, and used them as experiments and massacred many children alive, just as the Nazis did. Moreover, the doctor from Armenia, who did these tortures, was able to write and make these tortures into books. Azerbaijan's right and legitimate case has been ignored, the United Nations Security Council resolutions have failed to provide realistic solutions to stop the Minsk Group or other international formations, the terrorist state of Armenia. International formation and so-called solutions have encouraged the government of pawns and terror to attack.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0039par0166	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0038par0167	On July 12, 2020, Armenia attacked Tovuz, which was on the route of the railway, natural gas and oil pipeline projects, jointly carried out by Turkey and Azerbaijan. On September 27, 2020, Armenia, who faced the steel claws of Azerbaijan in Tovuz, violated international law and ceasefire and launched low attacks on the regions of our Azerbaijan brothers in the Upper Karabağ region, which he had occupied for twenty-nine years. Since September 27, 2020, 27 brothers and sisters of Armenia have been killed and 141 others have been injured by the treacherous attacks on the civilian settlements of the country Azerbaijan. Azerbaijan has responded with a high military capacity to the number of hostile elements in self-defense that have been under way since September 27th.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0039par0170	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0038par0171	In the operation launched by Azerbaijan to save their occupied territory, 25 settlements have thus far been liberated from occupation. Turkey has determined that Azerbaijan is ready to help however he wants, and the two states have fulfilled and will continue to bring it. Turkey, in its decisive position, has also sided with the sister country Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) and has broken down the iron mountains that are trying to build around it by disrupting the imperial game set up in Syria, Libya, the East Mediterranean and South Caucasus. 300 Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) terrorists carrying buses to Armenia are evidence of Turkey's surrounding policies, a clear indication that Armenia was cornered. The only solution to the Karabakh issue is the immediate withdrawal of Armenia from its territory, which is in violation of international law. Armenia and its supporters will never be able to change these historical facts by using guns, by force, by spilling blood. The miscalculation will return from the Turkish nation's power when the day comes. I hereby grant mercy to all our martyrs...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0039par0174	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0038par0175	I'd like to stop speaking in the lines of our poet Bahtiyar Vahabzade. It's one for all of us. Our love, our love. /Our crescent on the flags/Aserbaycan... Turkey.. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0040par0178	Mr. Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0041par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll try not to open the mask, but I'll tell you if I'm blocked, I'll open it, because I'm having trouble breathing. Yes, unfortunately, Congress will be working again today with a agenda full of war agendas, arguments, unlawfulness, extortion. With attacks on our party, the new year of life is opening in an atmosphere where the law is being used as leverage without slowing down. On the grounds of protests against Kobane, our Co-Chair Ayhan Bilgen is currently in Sincan Prison, our other Co-Chair, Shevin Alaca, and 14 of our 14 friends, members of the city council, are still in custody. Yes, the trustee extortion continues at full speed, and the trustee, of course, closed the Kurdish account as the first thing, because it continues to be Kurdish, Kurdish, Kurdish, Kurdish, and the principal policy of trustees. Kayium Orphan also disbanded the 25-member city council, which consisted of 10 Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) people, 5 People's Republican Party (CHP) people, 4 People's Democratic Party (PKK) members, 3 People's Party (AKP) and 2 People's members. In other words, the mayoral body was seized along with the City Council, where Kars was fully represented by the will of the people. Those who have seen Kars have known that there are hundreds of mosques -- instead of praying in Kars, and praying in trustee mosques -- he's occupying it, he's conquering it -- he's praying in front of the municipality, and it's served the whole world. What was the blessing there? We took away the will of the people, we sent a mayor to prison, we removed the members of the assembly, and the others in custody were declared a spoilsman's understanding. Yes, we know very well that they use city revenues for their own personal interests, thefts and corruption.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0042par0186	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0041par0187	Yes, the trustee is the result of an understanding that crushes democratic gains with the teeth of the public, like a bulldozer, and this looter, the conqueror, the occupying mind, has collapsed on the hope of the people's life together. In a place where peoples like Kars are united, in harmony, it is also a blow to the people of the whole country to live together and work together. Yes, the trustee assigned to Kars is like any other trustee. He has declared public hostility, Kurdish hostility, misogyny, misogynistic work. We woke up this morning with arrests and raids again. We're not gonna say we're not surprised anymore, but we're never used to it, and we're never gonna get used to it. The Van Bureau of the Mesopotamian Agency has been raided, 4 journalists detained. A total of 20 people have been taken into custody in Diyarbakır, Urbana, Şırnak, Malazgirt, Varto, Siirt, Antalya. Yes, the place to come at the end of 20 years, calling it democracy and human rights, is the morning raids, the breaking up of homes, the detentions, the torture, the hostility and murder.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0042par0190	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0041par0191	Now, the government says: "This is my way, get used to it; I am the law; I am the state." He says: "The law is not a crime, but the one who uncovers torture is guilty; and the one who is tortured is guilty." He says: "It is not a crime to cast off from a helicopter, but to mourn for the Fortune Turgut who was thrown out of a helicopter and lost his life. The rule says that it is not a crime to speak of it; it is not a crime to steal, it is a crime to steal, it is a crime to speak of it. War is natural, peace is a crime. We say: "Of course not. As long as we breathe, we will resist this nobra, fascist and inhumane practice. Let the whole world hear the name Servet Turgut. Fortune Turgut was thrown out of the helicopter, proven to have been thrown out of the helicopter. The gag order has been issued. Not a single person has been taken into custody.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0042par0194	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0041par0195	The medical examiner's report documented that Servet Turgut had been thrown out of the helicopter. Four journalists who reported this morning were taken into custody. Torture isn't a crime to get rid of a helicopter, but to report it, to mourn it is a crime. We can't accept that. Fortune Turgut, deaf media, silent judgment, and the alliance in this power have all thrown out of the helicopter. If not today, those who had been thrown out of the helicopter would have been under arrest, in front of a trial, not by the press, but by the judges. Yes, as long as the HDP exists, we will resist fascism, bring democracy and freedom together. Finally, a very important issue has been made in the Court reports, Mr. President: The Ministry of Health has been determined in 2019 to pay over $33,507,000. The details of this are in the Court reports.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0042par0198	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0041par0199	Of course, in the pandemic period, the expectation of the Minister of Health, the public service, and the fight against pandemics in this regard. A much more important issue in parallel with this is that the Ministry has now closed down tens of thousands of companies that provide medical equipment and medical products for city hospitals, which are making these extra-funded expenditures because it does not pay its dues -- even international sounds from the United States -- all of them are on the verge of bankruptcy. They sold medical supplies, they supplied them, but the Health Department doesn't pay for them, and they're asked to waive the money for the materials bought years ago. We, the Court's reports, pandemics and these medical equipment manufacturers, want to make it very clear that we want to be evaluated together, payable for the immediate removal of this victim. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0042par0201	Mr. Altay, please come in.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0043par0203	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you and the Grand General Assembly. Mr. President, in the first combination of the 27th Year of the Fourth Legislature, Turkey can no doubt deny that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has an important function in response to the public's expectations, to the nation's sensitivities, to the nation's problems, to the point of protecting its strong and respectable place in the international family. We, the Republican People's Party Group, are eager to control the work and procedures of the executive body, which is tasked to adopt laws in accordance with the interests of our country and our country and the interests of our nation and with a constructive and sincere understanding of our hearts and desires, rather than the debate part. Mr. President, we see that the fight against Covid-19 has, unfortunately, lost public support on the day that the executive body began as of today. We think it's partly because the executive body is doing this by ignoring the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, by keeping it out of the loop, by not informing it. We see that the economic tribulation that surrounds the entire world from Gene Covid-19 has unfortunately turned into an economic depression in our country.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0044par0209	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0043par0210	We believe that the reason for this economic depression, where 83 million of our citizens live and are affected, is that the executive body does not share with the Turkish Grand National Assembly on the process, but sees the Turkish Parliament as a factory that will only make necessary laws. In the same way, as we're going to talk broadly about today's arguments, we also see that Turkey is very justified in the problems in the Eastern Mediterranean, Aegean, and the Middle East, and that even in very legitimate issues, the President of the Republic of Turkey is being excluded from the region in terms of the countries of the region, as a reflection of the foreign policy, which we consider to be an unpleasant, hurtful speech by some heads of state in the region -- taken by the Turkish Parliament ineffective and uninvolved in the foreign policy process.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0044par0213	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0043par0214	Gene, we think that the problems our children and our young people have in meeting school, internet, television, tablet, are also due to the disconnect between the Turkish Grand National Assembly and the execution and the lack of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Mr. President, I would like to take this opportunity to say that both Covid-19 and economic depression, both the school, the computer, the Internet, and -- the warm development of our children -- the pressure of the Armenian state against our brothers in Azerbaijan, the Republican People's Party is prepared to contribute constructively, genuinely, to support. I want to underline that, too. There is one thing that must not be forgotten: sovereignty belongs to the people, unconditionally. I would like to underline the executive body, the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation in business and procedures, the respect of the Turkish Grand National Assembly and Turkey's participation in its policies against the outside world would make Turkey stronger and more respected in the international community.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0044par0217	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0043par0218	I'll be right there, sir. Mr. President, our Istanbul, which Fatih Sultan Mehmet Han conquered five hundred and sixty-seven years ago, was officially occupied again on March 16, 1920. Today is the 97th anniversary of the salvation of our Istanbul. The occupation, which lasted four years and ten months and 23 days, ended on 6 October 1923. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who went as they came, pointed out how the occupation would end on the first day. I hereby congratulate you on the 97th anniversary of the liberation of Istanbul, one of the most important and beautiful cities of the world. I remember Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our republic, especially Sultan Mehmet Khan, and all of the martyrs who have been immortalized in our nation's hearts in defence of our nation, on behalf of the people of Istanbul, on behalf of 83 million, merciful, grateful and grateful. I salute the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0045par0222	Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0046par0224	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I wish our nation the best of the new year of life. In 1453, Istanbul was conquered by Sultan Mehmet Khan and declared the capital of the Ottoman Empire and served as the capital until the Battle of Salvation. Later, he was again occupied during the Liberation War, and today, on October 6, 1923, is the anniversary of our surviving Istanbul. On this occasion, I, Gazi Mustafa Kemal, who fought in the Salvation War, remember his comrades and all Mehmetchiks once again with mercy, with respect, with respect. Istanbul celebrates the 97th year of the invasion, and I wish it to be a blessing. As you know, Azerbaijan has been struggling to save his occupied lands from Armenia again for nearly a week. As Turkey, we, the AK PARTY, are on the side of the friendly and brother Azerbaijan people, we support and hope that they will soon free and free these occupied lands from the invaders. We, as a nation and as a state, would like to express that we are on the side of the Azerbaijan people once again. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0047par0228	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Members of parliament have reached our presidency on September 23, 2020, following a change in the proportions of political party groups under Article 22 of Peoples' Democratic Party Group Chairmanship. It's for your information. Members of the Parliament, under the 21st Article of the Republican People's Party Group, Balıkesir MP Ahmet Akin Τ's Industry, Trade, Energy, Sources, Information and Technology Commission, İzmir MP Mr Sevda Erdan Kılıç, Public Economic Teşebbus Commission, Kahramanmarash MP Mr Ali Öztunç's Interior Commission, Muğla MP Mr Burak Erbay It's for your information. Members of parliament, Mr. İsmail Tatüoğlu's letter on his resignation from the Plan and Budget Commission has reached our presidency on 2 October 2020. It's for your information. THE Good PARTI Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 6/10/2020 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. It has been suggested by Denizli MP Yasin Ozturk that the Council's motion to conduct parliamentary research on Turkey's Parliamentary Assembly on 1/10/2020, in order to prevent the problems in the medical and medical sector from becoming a potential threat to health care services, to investigate the financial extent of the damage caused by medical equipment and medical companies, and to determine the measures needed to be taken. Mr. Yasin Ozturk on behalf of the Good Party to explain the reason for the proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0048par0256	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the good party proposal. I ask that the year of the fourth legislature of the 27th century be blessed to our nation and to our Assembly, and I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the greatest wealth is health. Because of the world's health testing, the world's governments and scientists today have focused all their intellectual and material investments and expenditures on health, except our country, unfortunately. I'm saying outside our country because in this period of health investment and spending as a state, the government has a policy on punishing those who invest in health. Nearly 1 million pens to public hospitals and nearly 10,000 companies that supply medical equipment and medical products have been unable to collect from the government for almost three years. From the Band-Aid to the ventilator, the amount of three years' worth of Turkish dollars for all these products you can think of that you can't think of. Look, about 250,000 people from this sector are trying to bring bread home. These companies, who failed to collect 19 billion Turkish liras, were unable to pay for new products, much less to pay their staff's salary. As we all know, our country's medical equipment and medical products sector is a major business of imports. So the fluctuations in the exchange rates are directly reflected in these products. Mr. President says that Turkey needs a quick nationalization and domesticization in health care. Today, both our pharmaceutical and medical equipment sectors are heavily dependent, and we need to get rid of this. What do you dream of when companies who can't collect your money can't replace what's missing in the stockpile, and in some of our provinces the supply of goods is at a standstill, while hospital administrations are almost begging companies to buy goods? In recent days, lawmakers have sought to communicate the problem and seek solutions for many NGOs. The Ministry of Health has addressed the Ministry of Finance as an address to the firms, and the Ministry of Finance officials have first sat down to negotiate to accuse these firms and then to waive their debts. As you've already accused, if these companies are making a lot of money, you're still the problem, the prices are predetermined, the purchases are set, the collection deadlines are set, the contracts are signed... then it's not clear what these companies were going to gain? These firms aren't banks, so they can put interest on what they're owed, run default. The finance, through the State Health Administrations, forces creditors to sign a text that they send to hospitals, which does not contain any official government. The waiver for drug debts is required by the company to receive 6 per cent of medical supplies, and the waiver will be paid by 25 per cent, while the remaining will be paid by two installments by hanging on to 2021. And there are additional conditions: if the firms have filed a lawsuit, if they've started a follow-up, they'll take it back, and they won't press charges. What if they refuse to sign the contracts? It's obvious who's opposed to the government. Even concordado companies are ashamed to make such an offer to their creditors. Now, I'd like to ask you a question: many of our friends in the General Assembly were engaged in business before they became MPs -- being a member of the community does not prevent business -- so there are some of us who still keep their jobs. Whether you're on the field or on the giver side, there's a deal at the head, so if there's a deal to be made, it's done. Because both sides have to calculate what they're going to get, what they're going to give. After the negotiations are over, when it's time to pay up after the job or the product is delivered, what do you call someone who's been renegotiating for months? Would you ever consider trading with the same person again? Would you mind sitting at the same table, let alone trading? Of course, you don't sit down, because you see the other person as a con artist, a slapper, a bully who doesn't deserve what you do, even if he's stronger than you are, and you don't ever do business with that person and organization again because you don't trust that person anymore. See, that's what power does to the state. Power has passed through the sector, which has victimized the actual patients and doctors. Although medical equipment and medical products firms still try to keep the chain of the chain intact by putting their hands on the stone, the delay of collection will make patients' needs unsupervised. Not paying these companies will do nothing but turn hospitals into dry buildings. A break in the healthcare chain, especially in the face of an epidemic that threatens our country so much, like Covid-19, will start an irreversible dangerous cycle. As the number of companies bankrupting due to debt increases, this gap will begin to benefit global companies.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0049par0262	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0048par0263	I am, Mr. President. The health sector, which heads the most strategic sectors, will be completely under the control of foreigners. The last thing I'm saying is, you can't make domestic and national production, so let the local and national companies and their employees survive. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0050par0268	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Necdet İpekım. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0051par0271	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Health in Turkey now complains that people are rioting, and every day a new concept of literature is involved in health; the case, the patient, the symptom, the city hospital. Many concepts are now empty, where everyone complains. What was it? A transformation in health. What was it? Everything will be fine, people will be happy, but there have been health institutions, businesses, patients, citizens, customers, everyone is unhappy, and we can't get answers, we can't get anything we say, we're dealing with a stamp, and these businesses are in such a position that they're now processing as extortion. How? Medical firms, pharmaceutical companies in Turkey no longer want to give drugs to the public, universities. Why? Because they can't get their money. Normally, there's a Public Contraction Act, you have to get paid in a hundred and eighty days, 18 months later, they don't get paid from the university, 36 months later, they don't get paid from public hospitals, they don't get their medical bills. Who determines the price of medicine in the Republic of Turkey? A provision was made in 2015, and the Ministry of Health determines it. You set the price, you set the discount, and you won't pay him, but what are you going to do? You will receive your VAT, you will deposit the SGK, and you will pay your debts to the bank. And the first priority for the tender is, when you're in the tender, do you or do you not have a debt or do you not have a public condition? It's the government that says that, but it doesn't do that when it's in debt. What do the companies that I'm looking for today in Diyarbakir, Batman? It says: "The state shares with us, the bank shares with us; we are miserable, the citizen is miserable." How? Because there are people who can't get treatment because there's no medicine, and because there's no medication, there are people who are failing. Because even in this pandemic process, we are suffering from shortages of supplies in intensive care. So, what's going on with all this trouble? There's no return capital. Yesterday in Istanbul, assistants and staff walked in several hospitals because they could not obtain their rights. No money for an assistant, no money for a doctor, no money for a medical worker. Who's got money? There's money in city hospitals for processing, and when we ask for their contract, it's gone.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0052par0275	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0051par0276	Thank you, Mr. President. So, what else is being done? Every day in this Parliament, we went out and made an arrangement, but physicians and health workers faced violence, and as we arrived, the transformation of health became a threat. Right now, no one wants to give supplies to university hospitals, no one wants to give supplies to public hospitals because the Finance Minister has turned it into a shakedown: either you're going to waive or you're going to discount or we're not paying you. Last year, $230 million increased by about 10 times, and the minister turns out to be 2 billion, 3 million, and says there are companies that don't get what they get with dollars, and the ambassador says, "If you don't pay for this, we can't give you any more drugs." You play with public health in Turkey, and the health of the people you call health threatens the health of the people. You completely ignore both institutions and citizens, the health of the public, and you only think with business mentality. You're not loyal to your debt, you're facing a citizen to pay off a debt, you're confronting companies. This threatens public health. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0053par0280	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr Murat Emir. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0054par0283	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. The Republic of Turkey has placed around $20 billion in debt on the market. You didn't hear wrong, the Republic of Turkey owes it to the market. College hospitals for 36 months, public hospitals haven't paid their debts in 16 months. Of course, the definition of this is to put it in a real way is to put it in a debt. Would a state fall into this situation? It shouldn't, but with your clumsy hands, I'm afraid the Republic of Turkey has been put in this position. Who are the medical sectors, the medical equipment and equipment industry, friends? About 10,000 businesses, small businesses, small tradesmen, a sector that does RDs in techno-states, makes high-end exports and exports to the world; a sector where 250,000 people eat bread, a sector that is somehow supported and provided for by close to 1 million people, is very valuable. So what we're trying to do here is solve this problem of the medical sector, pay them what you owe them, don't blackmail them, don't give them up, and we're actually trying to protect the local and national values of our country. But if they were a bunch of contractors, if they were your supporters who signed a public-private partnership agreement, if they were borrowers with dollars, if they were interestrs, you'd pay them back just fine. So far, you haven't missed a penny of their debt, you haven't paid a penny less, but when it comes to the valuable sectors of Turkey, you forget about them, ignore them, and unfortunately the medical sector is at stake in this process. Dear friends, the medical sector is not only important for the protection of these nearly 1 million people, for the protection of the industry that produces high-income products, for the protection of the selling sector, but also for public health. The basic condition of public health is qualified, equipped hospitals and adequate and qualified spending materials. What good are hospitals without them? Now, college hospitals can't take drugs, they can't buy equipment; public hospitals owe money, public hospitals don't even give out syringes when they open a tender, and you're talking about solving health problems after that. So this is actually also a public health issue. The primary way to maintain public health is to supply hospitals with medical supplies, equipment, and spending materials, as it should be, and to support the sector that brings you with great difficulty, which brings you debt.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0055par0288	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0054par0289	I am, Mr. President. Look, it's so weird that you're bidding as a government, you're going in, you're giving it to the lowest bidder. After he gets it, he pays his VAT, pays his income tax, returns, pays his SGK bonuses, fulfills all his responsibilities and gives up his life as blackmail. Look, the number of waivers started at 60 percent, 60 percent of them. I owe you money, I've kept you waiting for two years, but give up 60 percent. What kind of government is that? How can the Republic of Turkey be reduced to this situation? So that's what we demand and we're fighting for the health of 1 million people, 10,000 tradesmen, hundreds of RDs, and the health of 83 million. Listen to the voices of the medics, don't keep them waiting any longer. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0056par0293	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Mustafa Esgin. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I know it's difficult to speak with the mask, but for the attention of ourselves and our friends, please let no one remove the mask, including the speakers. Mr. Mustafa, I don't think he's with you, but I'm asking you, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0057par0300	Mr. President, that won't happen on the stand. Mr. President, that's not possible on the stand.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0058par0301	The bench can't stand it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0059par0302	Mr. President, it's okay with me, I've spent several hours every day wearing a mask.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0060par0303	Just a minute, Mr. Esgin. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0061par0305	Mr. President, there's no way this is gonna be on the stand, so we can't...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0060par0306	So, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mr. President, Mr. Engin, we also have to set an example for society. When society watches this on TV, how do you make a speech, what's the distance? But it's the General Assembly's decision, so if that's what you want, let's do it.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0061par0307	No, no, it's like this: I understand you, and I understand your sensitivity -- Mr. Orator, I'm sorry -- but if we're going to set an example for society, we have to start with our President, and he speaks without a mask here.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0060par0309	Mr. Altay, I'm in my field. Mr. Akin, I mean, I applaud you, too, under the circumstances.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0061par0311	Sir, it's going to be very difficult for me.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0062par0312	Mr. President, let them wear it in a five-minute speech, which would be very difficult in a 20-minute conversation with a physical mask. So I'll tell you to consider it.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0063par0313	I mean, it could be a minute or two, but ten minutes, five minutes is a bit of a challenge.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0064par0314	As you can see, Mr. Altay, there is no concept here as usual. We'll have a private session for that in the back. Mr. Esgin, come in.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0065par0319	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm starting to talk to the mask, and I'm moving on. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. Health and health technologies are one of the most strategic sectors in the world. For this reason, in recent years in our country, there has been a significant will for the development and development of health technologies by increasing local and national rates. These goals are clearly expressed in mid-term programmes and strategy documents. The presidency of the Turkish Health Institutes (TSEB) is also established and plays an important role in the process. In the first place, vaccines, medicines, diagnostic kits and medical equipment are among the mandates of TUSEB to do and do RDs on all kinds of health technologies. Our goal is to raise local and national rates to the highest level, as in the defence industry, and to sign new technological products with high added value. These vaccine studies during the Covid-19 process have been very clear on the criticism that nothing has been done, dear friends. The Covid-19 process has once again demonstrated how important these studies are. A significant step has been made in the study of vaccines and diagnostic kits, as well as on our country's first high-level ventilator device. We've come to a pretty good point on the Covid-19 vaccine. As far as we're concerned, studies on animals have yielded positive results. We'll begin human trials shortly. Not only Covid-19 but similar mechanisms are now being introduced to localize vaccines such as Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever, chicken pox, tuberculosis, malaria and rabies. Dear friends, by order of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, 100 per cent of domestic and national, intensive care-type mechanical respirators have been produced, as you all know. Four Turkish companies, yes, these are companies that produce medical devices, companies that are the savings of this country, and 120 engineers have come together to work 24/7 day and night, and they've come up with this success. The cost is low, but we've built a highly efficient mechanical ventilator device. Our local ventilator, which successfully passed all tests and received a complete note from doctors, met the needs of our country, but also started exporting. We aim to get about $1 billion a year from the local ventilator. Dear friends, Turkey has really been...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0066par0327	Compound your words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0067par0328	Mr. President, this is beside the point, orator.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0065par0329	...especially in the defense industry, he's taken significant steps in the production of medical devices, and we've increased our exports by increasing our exports every year, and our import numbers are not increasing, and we're getting less and less and less and more reduced in this sense, and we're doing this story of success with our medical firms. Dear friends, I resent the approach to this political polemic material that we have with our medical firms. Yes, we've gone through a new tender process and three months of repayment. Meanwhile, there is a process management in communication with the sector on a restructuring of our accumulated debt stock and a waiver that has already been made. I'm saying this as a friend of yours who's represented these pharmaceutical devices as head of the health council in the trade and industry room for years, and I'm saying that we're going to continue to communicate with our firms and sectors at any point. I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0068par0334	I submit to your votes the good party proposal: those who don't accept... those who don't... are not accepted. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 6/10/2020 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 6/10/2020, the motion for Parliamentary Research on Turkey's Grand National Assembly in order to investigate events in Kobane, given by Siirt MP Deputy Minister Coral Danış Beştaş and İstanbul MP Şaş Oluç, has been proposed to hold talks on Tuesday (September 6/10/2020). On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group to explain the motive of the proposal, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0069par0348	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, yes, the Kobane protests... we'd like to investigate the details of the issue that's been in the languages for years. In this Parliament where the will of the people is represented, let us find answers to the questions of who, why, how? For one thing, first of all, I'll tell you a few fact or two that the Kobane protests didn't begin on October 6th, but on September 15th, when the ISIS gang surrounded Kobane. In other words, solidarity with the people of Kobane in Turkey and all over the world continued quickly after 15 September. Yes, according to the International Syrian Observatory, 412 people died in Kobane until 7 October. That's the number we got from the authorities. Now, what is the matter spoken by power? In the cases of Kobane on October 6th-8, these incidents took place with the call of HDP MYK. Once there was no official decision from HDP MYK, the whole issue is a (tweet) taken out of its central account; it is social sharing. And there's a call for democratic protest, solidarity with the people of Kobane. In this case, the Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office and several prosecutors have investigated the members and lawmakers of the period on charges of inciting them to commit crimes. As far as I know in these investigations, everyone -- maybe a couple of people -- went out and made statements, and the investigation is still under way; there was no one saying, "I'm avoiding the other judge." But what happened? Demirtaş and Yüksekdağ have been sentenced to arrest again for the same verb last year, after five years. There's no place in the law for that. So you're saying to a person that I've launched an investigation into non-injured. No, five years have passed, not wounded. You've committed murder, looting, stealing. They say, "You've committed a lot of crimes." For one thing, the public needs to know about this. So, what happened during the Kobane protests? Something really bad happened. People died, looted, robbed, lynched, protested, and 43 people lost their lives. What else happened? HDP buildings were attacked, 33 HDP people were killed. In Antwerp, a woman was lynched in front of the cameras in her home. The police knowingly pushed the Panzers, the civilian vehicles, and all of this footage is right in front of us. So, who's in charge? I'm going further, whether it's the people who protested, the ones who didn't prevent it, the ones who led it, the ones who didn't make a noise about the murder, the ones who did it, the ones who did it, the ones who didn't? Now, we're doing a thorough investigation. Except for two cases, there's no trial for Kobane protests. Well, what the law says is that the state must protect the citizens' lives and property. The European Court of Human Rights has numerous decisions on this issue, and there are violations against Turkey. The first time that civil protesters were lynched was on October 7th, when Hakan Buksur was killed by police bullets in Mush Varto. So, not on October 6th, but on October 7th, Erdogan's Kobani fell and fell. After his statement, Mush Varto took place. Have you ever heard of this? Of course you haven't heard. We're talking about a single governor, a single governor, a single police commissioner, a single police official, a single minister, who's responsible for the incident is that those who have to protect the lives and property safety of a citizen are not tried, but our party is again targeted six years later and is actually brought up in the interest of liquidation. Our HDP cannot be linked to any act of violence or crime because it does not exist, because there is no such connection. I mean, who's against the Kobani people? There's ISIS, there's ISIS. We're talking about a massacre that sells women in markets, cuts heads off, rapes people, commits crimes against humanity. Who are the sticklers? Civilians.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0070par0353	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0069par0354	HDP has always stood against ISIS. It's not about us, the 6th of October... 70 countries against ISIS, the coalition country, all over the world at that time, from Buenos Aires to America, from America to Canada, from Europe to the people of Kobani. So, what did the current government do? Kobani is not with his people. A government that strongly suppresses demonstrations of power and solidarity that opposes the demand to open a relief corridor for the people of Kobani, leads to murder, and does not judge those who commit murder. What happened? We're about to hear about this from our Group Chairman, and then the relief corridor opens. Again, help from Iraq has arrived. There were many political developments at the time, but our demand today is clear. We want to look into this: let's look into the responsibility of public officials who were serving at the time until they looked at the bottom -- in the nail. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let the Clave look into it, and we want all the information to be shared in any kind of investigation. Turkey and the world's public say they have a right to know, thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0071par0359	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0072par0362	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. During the events that took place on October 6th or 8th, 51 of our citizens lost their lives; 10 of them were children; 16 years old in Sinan Ark, Dargezit, 17 years old Yusuf Çelik, and Yasin Börı, 16 years old, were brutally killed on the 3rd floor of an apartment in Diyarbakir. I ask for God's mercy to all who have lost their lives from here. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there are papers here, and I've shown them here before, so let me show you one more time. Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office is launching two investigations after HDP's decision on the report. One of these investigations is launched by the Parliamentary Bureau of Investigations on 7 members of the MEC, while the other is being investigated by members of the non-membership OF MYK; it is being investigated in 2014 to 146757. Now, why is the investigation being launched? Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan is being started in 2009 on charges of provoking people to hatred and hostility, and there is also a violation of the Law on Meetings and Demonstrations. Therefore, in connection with seven MPs -- Selahattin Demirtaş, Figen Yüksekdağ, among them -- comes to Turkey's Grand National Assembly on March 21, 2016, when immunity is lifted in May, Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office is extradited; Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office is sending those cases related to the MPs to Diyarbakır Chief Public Prosecutor's office as a crime scene; Diyarbakır Chief Public Prosecutor's Office is sending them to the investigation files on the seven MPs. On the subject of the Ankara High Criminal Court, which is being tried today and is being tried today, the 31st in the trial held in Ankara's High Criminal Court. That's what this is about. That's the thing. Look, here's the paperwork. But what happened? If you remember -- I'm telling the lawmakers here last semester -- that when our immunity was lifted in 2016, the Justice Department wrote to the state's Attorney Generals, close all investigations and send them away. And it was sent about everyone, and it was sent about Demirtaş, and there were no more files, and there were no more investigations. Until when? Until the 2019th of September 20th. On September 20th, just after the trial of the European Court of Human Rights, an investigation was launched from here, following the possibility that Demirtaş would be released, and -- look, the document was added to the investigation of members of MYK who were not members of parliament -- Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ. But they've had investigations before. Because there is no other investigation that can be launched into Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0073par0367	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0072par0368	Why not? The prisoners are in prison; they can't be involved in a new investigation, but Demirtaş must be kept in prison, as well as Yüksekdağ. Do you know what Mr. Erdoğan said in TEKNOFEST a day after he was arrested on the 21st, after he had been arrested, after he had been included in this document, including the Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, who had been appointed trustee to this Parliament, had been arrested after he had been involved in such a false operation? He said we couldn't let go. That's where the decision was made. Now we realize that exactly one year later, 82 other people were involved in this investigation. Look, this investigation is repeated, dear friends, against the law. Today the judgment may have entered the court's command, but look, I'm telling you, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, these irregularities will shoot you, too. He was clearly involved in the investigation by filing false documents. I told you why because there's no other investigation to add. All his cases have been filed, no new investigations can be launched in prison. Therefore, this time an investigation was launched and arrested for changing constitutional order. Yeah, the mayor of Kars has a Constitutional Court ruling. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's a Constitutional Court ruling on this case. There's a will that doesn't know the Constitutional Court, who doesn't know the Constitutional Court, right next to us, in the judiciary. As a lawyer who's been following them all, I'm warning you one more time.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0074par0374	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0072par0375	You're doing it wrong. This judgment will come to you the day after tomorrow, and He will question you for your wrongdoing. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0074par0378	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Yilmaz Bronzeç. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0075par0381	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the HDP group proposal. I hereby salute the General Assembly and wish you the best of our new year of life. Dear lawmakers, there is no question that the October 6th or 8th Kobani events were one of the milestones on the road to the July 15th coup attempt, a black mark on our recent history. If we remember the events of our country by July 15, 2016, we will be able to understand the purpose of the chaos that is being created. Dear lawmakers have called on people to act on the streets, as a result of the alleged attack by DEAS terrorists on Ayn al-Arab. After the attack on Ayn al-Arab. They have called on the PKK, the heads of the KCK terrorist organization and members of the HDP (HDP) members of the PKK to act on social media and some media-registered organs, in order to protect Ayn al-Arab. HDP social media accounts on October 6, 2014 shared a message entitled Emergency Call to Our People from HDP People (HDP) who is currently in charge of the Meeting, which was called out to the streets and followed by the chain of fucktweet (Television) and the messages were called for non-existent resistance. Following these calls, roadblocks were set up in 35 counties, 96 districts and 131 settlements, and attacks were launched on public buildings and vehicles, locations, and civilian people with long barreled weapons, Molotovs, stones and clubs. In the end, 197 school buildings were burned down, 269 public buildings were destroyed, 1.731 homes and workplaces were looted, 1,230 vehicles were damaged, but most importantly, more than 40 people lost their lives, including Yasin Böru and his friends, 326 police and soldiers, 435 of our citizens were injured. Is it possible to say that these calls are not effective in the beginning and growth of these events, precious MPs? Meetings and demonstrations in democracies are the most natural right. Burning down, looting houses and businesses, building barricades, hurting people and killing people can't be defined as a right in any democratic country, in any state of law. What is done is called for violence; it is indisputable, and clear documents are present. No national or international document defines freedom of speech, freedom of speech, meeting and march, and calls for violence in any document. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0076par0387	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0075par0388	The 26th article of our Constitution is clear, and the European Convention on Human Rights has ruled that the 10th and 11th Articles of the European Convention on Human Rights cannot be part of the freedom of thought and expression, and there are numerous European Courts of Rights in this sense. The 19th article of the United Nations Convention on Civil Rights and Political Rights does not justify the call for violence. If a crime is committed in accordance with the call of those who call for violence, you will be guilty according to our Turkish Penal Code and according to international law as an instigator of that crime. So after this call, these events took place, the result became subject to the outcome, and the judiciary took over, opened some investigations, and an investigation is under way during the period of the statute of limitations, with a signature on these calls, with a signature on the MYK decisions, or with a contribution to this CDC decision from its official Twitter accounts. Therefore, there is a process of judgment. It's also our duty as law enforcement to wait for the investigations and prosecutions carried out by the judiciary. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0076par0391	Thank you, Mr. Bronze. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0077par0393	There's bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0078par0394	He wants a word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0076par0395	Friends, please, Ms. Hüda, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0077par0396	I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0076par0397	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş, two minutes for bullying.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0077par0400	Yes, we heard the same words again, the call for violence. There's no call for violence, there's a tweet, there's the use of the right to democratic protest. We said, "Come on, let's investigate." We said, "Why did this violence happen?" We said, "Why didn't you arrest the perpetrators of these people?" In the meantime, 43 people, including Yasin Bör, all of whom are children, all of whom have the same pain for us, all of whom we offer our condolences to their family, and from the very first day we say that their suffering is our pain. We're telling you that on September 25th -- the first action is 15, but then it continues -- then why isn't there a call for democratic protest? Because we're meeting with the government because the solution process continues, because -- Prime Minister, Minister of Interior -- five months later the Dolmabahçe Covenant is signed, because our party is meeting with the government one-on-one two days, 48 hours, our delegation is serving at the Ministry of Interior. Let's get this out in the open. Here, our judge will decide. He says, "But I trust Mr. Yilmaz. As a lawyer, I want to ask you this: Is there a crime, five years later, which is the 2nd investigation of the same verb? You're a thief, then you robbed someone. You can't say that. Then there's no one's legal security, no one's. One of them will be punished, five years from now, and you won't be punished for the same verb again. I want you to be punished for the same crime for the second time. It's called the same crime. If the judiciary had independence and neutrality today, the prosecutor who had investigated for criminal activity had opened 37 murder investigations for the 2nd time, protected those who committed murder, protected those who killed, protected the looters, but blamed the politicians who threw a.tweet, and the ones responsible were themselves according to the Constitution.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0076par0401	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0079par0402	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0076par0403	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0080par0404	Tell them to say the forces that can't be controlled.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0079par0405	Mr. President, we have a request for a word, if you please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0076par0406	Here, one minute from your seat.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0079par0409	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the General Assembly. These 6-7 October incidents took place in 35 districts of Turkey, 96 districts and 131 settlements; behind this is an organisation, behind which there is support. This includes the PKK, which, on that day, the HDP had chosen to hold a meeting and drive the nation into the fire with gasoline as it fueled it, and made things even higher. Now, sir, from this joke, it's been three years, five years. We've thrown in a tweet. We haven't done anything else.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0081par0412	All right, let's investigate, set up a commission.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0079par0413	You'll go to court, you'll tell the court everything you've got.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0081par0414	Is there a trial left?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0079par0415	We're not a court of law, we're not a court of law.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0081par0416	Is there a trial left? They've all been servants of the palace.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0079par0417	Look, we're just gonna ignore these images, right? He doesn't want to be questioned about these images, my friend.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0082par0419	Finish your words, Mr. Mush. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0079par0421	I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0083par0422	Is there law or justice left in this country?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0079par0423	You see, that right to protest? Is there such a right to protest? There's a HDP at the center of these events, so don't deny it now. Look, the siirt public library. Why did you burn it? We know about your hostility to the book. Look, Van, people's vehicles...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0084par0426	You called on July 15th.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0085par0427	Then why can't you make a research proposal?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0079par0428	Look, he covered his face; he's got a Molotov in his hand. It's a right to protest, to be declared a democratic right. Look, it's a city bus in Istanbul; it's considered a right.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0086par0430	Okay, let's investigate, let's investigate. We know them.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0087par0431	You made me do it, you let me do it.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0086par0432	Who are the forces that can't be controlled?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0088par0433	Look at it the same way, a PTT public building in Batman. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0089par0435	You wanted to live next door to ISIS, neighbor!
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0088par0436	May ISIS be damned, and those who support him. Look, Esenyurt, he sets fire to the bust of Ataturk, and also to the bust of Ataturk.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0090par0439	Mr. Mush, this is the last time I open it; please complete it.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0088par0440	I listened carefully to the speeches. Sir, it's been three years and five years; don't ask us to answer. Here's what happened. Take your time.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0091par0441	You're taking revenge on ISIS.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0088par0442	Whoever's in these will pay for this. I'm sorry, democratic rights are one thing, burning it down, ignoring one state's order, public order, another person's property, another person's life. Now, the judicial process here will investigate. We're not a court of law, so let's investigate. Where's the research? The court is looking into it; you'll present everything you've got to the D.A.'s office. You're in charge of this, you're in charge of the organization. Now, don't let anyone get away with this.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0092par0445	Thank you. Friends, members of lawmakers, look, the group's deputy presidents are speaking; I beg you, do not shout from your seats. Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0093par0449	Mr. President, let's just say that we don't accept what the Deputy Director of the Group says, that we don't find it edible.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0092par0450	It's on the record.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0093par0451	If there is an organization, it is an organization of power with ISIS. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Because today, the issue of revenge is that ISIS has not seized Kobani.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0094par0452	It happens when the PKK passes, and you like it when the PKK passes?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0093par0453	Why? Because we have no role in these organizations, because the creators of those images are law enforcement, paramilitary forces, ISIS people, and the forces that they themselves use as pawns. I'm not saying that those who don't control those images don't control them, that they can't, that we know who they are. He was lynched that day, and a woman and her wife were lynched in Antwerp, and the children were killed. Diyarbakır had a curfew, police weren't even checking IDs, they were organizing it.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0095par0455	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0093par0456	That's exactly what our research proposal is about. Who caused these acts of violence, these visions, these deaths, these loss of life, the loss of property, let's investigate together. If you're confident, if you have no fear, why reject our motion to investigate? Come on, let's do whatever research you want, and if this Parliament, where the will of the people is represented, is going to refuse to investigate, and the judgment is in its hands, then they say what the judiciary says first, and then they say it themselves. Why did the D.A. start this investigation before he even went on his honeymoon? Why did he take his breath in Fivepe? Why is there a relationship from Pınarhisar to this day? All Turkey is curious about its answers.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0095par0458	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0096par0460	Mr. President, there's teasing.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0095par0461	No hard feelings.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0096par0462	There was bullying from the stand.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0095par0463	What'd he pick on you for?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0097par0464	I didn't tease you, I asked you a question.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0098par0465	I trust his law. He said, was it taunting? Was it teasing that he trusted your law enforcement?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0099par0466	As a lawyer, I ask you this.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0100par0467	As a lawyer, I ask you, what's the content, what's the object he's picking on?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0099par0468	Mr. President asked if there would be a 2nd time investigation for the same crime.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0100par0469	He asked a question, not a tease. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0101par0471	Mr. President, I'm going to file a report. From this discussion, I understood that Mr. Beştaş wants to investigate the events of October 6th to 8th on the stand; this had been asked before, the House had refused. Six years later, six years later, a young prosecutor opens this book. Six years later -- after those events -- there are certain Dolmabahce photos in all of our memories -- this notebook opens up, and Mr. Beştaş naturally criticizes it from his own window. I don't understand why Mr. Mehmet Must would destroy himself in order to defend this process with such a high reflex against a procedure of the judicial body.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0100par0474	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0101par0475	To be honest, this is how I understand Mr. Mehmet Mush. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Sir, I'm talking in the middle; anyone gets what they want.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0100par0478	Mr. Köse... please, friends, I know him from behind the mask.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0101par0479	I'm telling you, that's what I think. After six years of kissing hands to the palace, I understand from this high reflex of Mehmet Mus. This is an investigation either under the direction of Mehmet Mush, or by order of the court. (CHP turns) There can't be anyone else, I can't think of anyone else.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0100par0480	Yeah.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0101par0481	I also want to address him here: Since you are starting from 6-8 October, go to Dolmabahçe, go to Dolmabahçe, go to Abdullah Ocalan and take the letter and explain it to the public, go to Osman Ocalan, go to Habur, go to Oslo, go to Kandil.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0100par0483	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0101par0484	Mr. President, I'm not finished.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0100par0485	Complete it, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0101par0486	Let me complete, but show me the tolerance you have shown Mr. Mush. I can barely breathe.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0100par0487	Let's turn on the microphone, folks, he's barely breathing, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0101par0488	So I just want to say, look, we're starting the Year of the Fourth Amendment in the 27th century today, and I said, of course, in politics, there's going to be debate, but there's going to be a debate. I also call to the palace: You don't have to stretch Turkey to consolidate its base, its environment; its job is to fight terrorism. With political parties, cleared, even by the Constitutional Court, it's the worst thing that can happen to this country, to put the heads of municipalities, which the other courts condemn to pay compensation, to put them in prison and not disseminate the cluster around it, to stretch society -- I'm telling you -- to this country. No one's holding the executive's hand, let him fight the PKK and ISIS relentlessly but don't let him do this...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0100par0489	Mr. Altay, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0101par0490	I'm ending it, Mr. President. And don't let the executive do this: terror with al-Qaeda. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I need to talk to you about this, Mr. President, the last sentence. Mr. President, last sentence.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0102par0494	Mr. Deputy Group Presidents, look, we ask you to speak according to your position of 60, and then we take advantage of it together, don't do it. This is the last time, Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0101par0496	Okay, sir, I'm not gonna use all the time. Don't let the executives do this: it's not the same with al-Qaeda as terrorism. Let him not appoint the lunatics as ambassadors. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0103par0500	Mr. Mush, you're being teased. Here, I'll give you my word on the stand for two minutes.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0104par0502	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0103par0503	Mr. Akçay, I'll give you my word. Sir, they've asked for word, Mr. Group, it's better to promise the Vice Presidents from the bench than to give them their place, in terms of time savings. Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0105par0509	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are concerned, of course, Mr. Altay, about the statements I've made here several times by mentioning my name.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0106par0510	Yeah, the Minister of Justice wouldn't be so defensive.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0105par0511	...inspired that I had instructed the prosecutors to do so by reading.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0106par0512	Yeah, I thought it was you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0105par0513	I didn't mean to...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0106par0514	I said I thought, I didn't say I thought. The way he spoke, it was as if Mehmet Mush had instructed the prosecutors to do so.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0107par0515	I'm going to ask for the transcripts, as if you said so directly.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0105par0516	Mr. President, let's relieve Engin Altay. We didn't give the prosecutors or the judges any instructions, so let him relax.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0106par0518	Well, that's good.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0105par0519	But I don't understand the attitude of Mr. Altay of this speech, from his aggressive approach to us -- he's actually a kind person -- in fact -- about these events. What's your position on these October 6th or 8th events? Yeah, do you support that or do you stand by it? Where are you? Explain him, I don't understand him. (AK PARTY) So if you had said two words to Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) that you would be so hard on me, people would have understood you better. Now, Mr. President, look, there's no call for democratic protest here, there's a call for rebellion. You can demonstrate your democratic response, no one has any objection. Now let's hide behind the democratic protest, there's no such thing, you called for a riot. Then you should have thought about it while you were doing it. Your president was sweating beads when it came to these points in front of the cameras. You were supposed to take that into account while you were making these calls. ▪ We make this call; where does it end, where does it stay, and where does it end? Do we do evil to our country, or do we do good? You may not care as much about your country as Kobani, but our country is ours, we die for this country. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here, sir, the ISIS terrorist organization will settle in Kobani... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm putting it together, Mr. Altay has taken my time. I couldn't talk about it because Mr. Altay intervened.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0108par0525	Mr. Mush, I can't promise anything more without teasing. Here, it's on the record.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0105par0527	Now, sir, they're going to settle down in Kobani, the same al-Arab name -- the ISID people -- and they're going to act for him. IND is a terrorist organization, and God damn him, and the PKK is a terrorist organization, and God damn him.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0109par0530	Because of the prison cruelty you did to your neighbor...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0105par0531	The PKK is a terrorist organization, but it's not, because it's close to us, it supports us. Whoever supports the terror, whoever's involved, God damn it. Our struggle will be to the end with this. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] OYA ERSOY (Istanbul) - (Istanbul) is also a terrorist organization, and is also a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0110par0534	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0111par0535	Mr. Beştaş, take your time, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0112par0536	Mr. President, the speaker is my 6-8 October...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0111par0537	Mr. Altay has accused you of being a party to the October 6th-8th incident.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0112par0538	Yeah.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0111par0539	Don't pick on me.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0113par0540	Mr. President, can you give us...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0114par0541	Mr. President, I don't understand Mr. Altay's attitude.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0111par0542	Sir, are you on the side of the October 6th-8th incident? Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0114par0544	And he said to me, "Are you a prosecutor?"
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0111par0545	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0115par0547	I'm not on your side, but your party has spoken to those who made that call in Dolmabahçe for days before you answer to them. What did you negotiate, give him an account.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0114par0549	Now you're partnering up...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0115par0550	My rage is that Mr. Mehmet Mush: We say we have Covid. We say we send the nation early. We say that everyone is at risk. We say that there's also been a trial coup against a political party; there's been a trial coup, and he's been talking about it here. He says that this judgment has done a wrong thing. You say that you're dating. No, the judiciary has done a very right thing six years later. I'd fire that prosecutor to see where you've been for six years, if you weren't in Turkey. Secondly, again, there's no way anyone's gonna put anyone on a intimacy test here. In such a test of intimacy, the first party to fail is the AK PARTY, the first party. (CHP applause) It's not like that; when it suits you, bombs explode, something happens, and that happens... you'll keep terror in front of you forever and ever. At your party -- I'm sure it's still a member of your party -- a member of the county general council threw a bullet at you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0114par0552	He made a mistake.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0115par0553	This man is my brother from AK PARTY.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0116par0554	That man can't be from the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0115par0555	Therefore, I would not associate any member of the EC PARTY with ISIS. But it's a shame to associate us or other parties with a terrorist organization because we're defending democracy, human rights, basic rights and freedoms, freedom of expression, and I'm telling you that.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0117par0557	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0118par0560	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to emphasize here a remarkable aspect of the matter that has been discussed and discussed. Now, Karayilan, one of the PKK's terrorist ringleaders, has an explanation on October 5, 2014, which is what we call a "tweet" or a "tweet" or a "tweet." It says: "We invite young people, women, all from seven to seventy, including seven-year-olds, to possess Kobane, to protect your honor, to invade the metropolis. " Now, right after the PKK leader's statement, on October 6, 2014, after the HDP Party Assembly and the meeting of MYK -- Mr. Beştaş said that there was no decision, but after this meeting -- he called for an almost identical, similar text published by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), HDP; he urged all of our people to hold the street against the attempted massacre in Kobani.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0119par0564	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0118par0565	I'm completing it. PKK's terrorist group has said to invade Metropolis, and HDP has said to keep and act on the street. What's the action? So this is an off-duty meeting and a demonstration march in accordance with the Constitution? I'm making this determination, and I'm putting an end to it. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0120par0568	Thank you. Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0121par0570	Should I come to the stand or talk from here?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0120par0571	It's not the bullying, is it?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0121par0572	Sarcasm called for mutiny.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0120par0573	Here you go. I've given up on the mask.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0122par0575	I didn't take it off, Mr. President. The order cuts the bar.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0120par0576	Sir, you're taking it personally, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0122par0577	I said I didn't take it off.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0120par0578	Thank you. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0123par0582	We're gonna talk about this a lot. I don't think there's any harm in talking, let everyone know the truth. Erdogan - President of the AKP - called the public to the street on July 15th, didn't he? 251 people died, unfortunately. Now, just because he called you out on the street doesn't mean you can't call 251 people killers, but you can't say that in other matters.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0120par0584	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0123par0585	Yeah, learn to listen first.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0120par0586	Congressmans, please... please... We have a very busy agenda today, folks.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0123par0588	There's no mistake in the analogy, but I got an urgent call from UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon Kobane at the time, looking at the notes. Almost all NGOs in Turkey have made joint statements to support Kobane. UN Special Representative to Syria Stafford Mistura has called repeatedly. In 90 countries, everyone has shown solidarity with ISIS people all over the world, and the protests in Turkey have been infected with blood. Why? We've got footage, we'll bring it in next week, we'll show you how the police panzer turns people on, we'll show you that five people have been scanned and killed by the rangers and one hasn't been arrested. We don't have a call, we're the ones who stopped the violence. Why did you go to the Imran and bring a note? Why did Efkan Ala give it to Sırrıyya Önder at midnight, and he gave it to Mr Demirtaş, and he read it, and he called it? Why don't you explain these negotiations? We're the ones trying to stop the violence, not you. Besides, if you'd opened the hallway, no one would have done these protests. In addition, I make it very clear that 33 people killed in protests were attacked by Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) and HDP districts. So you're the perpetrator.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0120par0590	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0124par0591	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0120par0592	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0124par0593	Mr. President, there's a taunt, I'll explain something.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0120par0594	Mr. Mush, according to 60, I'll give you my word for a minute, just a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0124par0598	Mr. President, some things have been said by the Deputy President of the Group, why don't you explain this? Why don't you explain this? Look, honestly, come out of the stand and explain what you know; what you know, what you know.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0125par0600	The president made it clear.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0124par0601	Here, sir, that minister called him. We took the letter to him. He went there. Look, whatever you know, whatever you have, please explain it to him from the stand.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0126par0602	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0124par0603	And I'd like to make it very clear that on July 15th, these Kobani events, violent incidents, are being compared to the same thing. One is a call for the survival of an occupied country, the other is a call for the occupation; how can it be the same thing, how can it be the same thing?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit01spe0126par0604	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0126par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 2nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on Tuesday 6/10/2020 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. The meeting of the Assembly Council of Turkey's Council of Turkey (10/1142) main parliamentary research directive (10/1142) was proposed during the General Assembly's 6/10/202020 Tuesday (today) merger of the Parliamentary Assembly (today), which is part of the section for General Assembly Review and Assembly Research. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group to explain the reason for the proposal, Mr. Candan Yüceer, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0127par0016	Mr. President, esteemed lawmakers, physicians, vow to dedicate their lives to the service of humanity. Over the past seven months, more than 100 health workers have lost their lives to protect their health, to save them from the trouble of Covid. More than 30,000 of our health workers were caught in Covid, and unfortunately, some shared a video that he sang, and some shared videos that he entrusted his children to his colleagues. Not just the people who lost their lives, of course, but the health workers were forced to work overtime. When a nurse left after work, she met her children's burnt bodies. It was not enough, they were abused, they were insulted, they were tried to be lynched. But as it happened, when someone was telling a success story on television, the health workers went through this, and they continued to work at the risk of dying so that the health system wouldn't collapse, so that people wouldn't die, but they were always alone. On top of the problems that exist, they're really exhausted when the pandemic load is installed. But there are over 600,000 health workers waiting. Because of the mistakes of this system, there are 600,000 health workers and thousands of acquitted people who are trying to serve these workers, to shoulder them, to lighten their burdens. Why aren't they assigned? No resources? Of course you do, but instead of giving them their dues, reducing their burdens, you're using them to breathe to the contractors, to remove their tax burdens, to guarantee them. Their rights will not be paid. The rights of those you call them have not really been paid. The driver who carried a patient was paid $7 a day and a half, which was seen a lot, so I'm afraid on September 24th, all the titles were down again. What needs to be done is to be paid fairly, without separating any health workers, and that reflects retirement. It's important that the health workers are not alone, that they are not alone, that they are financially supported, and most importantly, that Covid's disease is considered a professional disease. Family physicians who fought the plague on the front front front, but were not seen, heard, treated as foster children, who, unfortunately, continued in the same way during this epidemic, were actually a very ambitious project in the family medicine health reform system. In health care, the quality of protective care will indeed increase. It has been called "the quality of health care. " But from the past period, the problems have continued, unfortunately, to the present day. Family physicians, the most important tool of the health system, have to deal with many problems such as the excess number of patients, new tasks added to the list daily, violence, unfortunately, work insecurity. The workload of misdeeds in the health system and the increase in health costs are being tried today to address family medicine. How much of a family medicine has to do with the workload... look, it's just under the headlines on this list. These are the duties of family physicians before the outbreak. I'd probably be five minutes out of here already. On top of these tasks, patients who, unfortunately, don't treat the epidemic, come out of dental clinics, help the filament teams, meet their report demands in quarantine, and on top of it, phone loads, with these tasks, they're really not going to be able to handle it anymore. With the burden of this work and the difficult services, the real protective medicine -- the first step health care -- unfortunately, family physicians are unable to present it today. So, despite their superhuman efforts, are they appreciated or supported? No, they're still being treated like foster children. The additional payments are seen starting in August. It's as if the family physicians who didn't fight Covid (Covid) from March to August had never worked. Family physicians don't even have the right to get sick. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I finish?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0128par0023	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0127par0024	Unfortunately, when they got sick, when they got caught by Covid, their wages were cut off. Now he's turned around wrong, but he hasn't even apologized. They're in serious trouble where they serve at the protective equipment point. My motion was before the outbreak. If we had established this commission that day and not only built it, but showed a will at the point where we could really solve problems, maybe we wouldn't have experienced those losses today. Today is the time for the fight against the Covid-19 epidemic to be led by scientific methods, translucent data flow, participation of all relevant sections, with an effective and coordinated understanding. You can't make a citizen forget your responsibilities by putting the burden on the health workers. We are. Health workers say. We have to listen to this voice, and as a first step, I expect your support in this research proposal to restore public health care and ensure the rights of family physicians. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0129par0030	On behalf of the Good PARTY Group, Mr. Hussein Anris, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0130par0032	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the People's Party of the Republic on behalf of the PARTI Group regarding the problems of family physicians. I salute you all with the utmost respect. As I begin to speak, these days have been a difficult day, and I pray for the mercy of our doctors, our nurses, and all our health workers, who have lost their lives fighting the pandemic, and I remember them with respect. The fight against the Covid-19 epidemic, considered a pandemic by the World Health Organization, continues uninterrupted throughout the world. Our Ministry is struggling too. Unfortunately, at this point, we have some concerns, and I'd like to express them from here. Because we're in the middle of a period of decades of death every day, of transparency and increasing cases, unfortunately. We have family physicians who represent a discipline at the point of contact with a patient who has a very important place in the fight against the plague, and they're fighting uninterrupted. But they have some problems, and they have serious problems. For these problems to be resolved, a will must be dealt with immediately. Dear lawmakers, as we speak, we have run out of hair, and even though it has finally been relatively resolved, the first step in the field continues in some of our provinces, especially in the family health centre, where the medical staff, who are the first contact point, are missing personal protective equipment. A sufficient amount of personal protective equipment must be immediately distributed and the shortcomings must be completed. The Ministry of Health of the Republic of Turkey also found that its article on March 23, 2020, on the study of recession 3522, was not implemented in some health facilities. On the first step, I think that with the transformational work of family health centers in particular, the spread of the epidemic will be reduced to a minimum, while the health staff may have to work long hours to prepare physically and spiritually for these studies. There is still no family physician on the health department's coronavirus science board. They deal directly with patients, but unfortunately they're not on the Science Board. The current Institution must also be taken to first base representatives and academics. The Covid-19 test must be conducted immediately and periodically to all medical personnel.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0131par0038	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0130par0039	In no version of the updated version of Covid-19 Guide study, including the study of the Science Council, there are no first-digit health care agencies, and there are no relevant approaches to the health staff working here in Covid-19, which should be added to this Guidance immediately. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to remind you that as the PTA, we have offered a law to make sure that health workers are considered martyrs in the event that they lose their lives in Covid-19. We demand immediate attention, and we expect your support. I respectfully salute the General Assembly, saying that we support this motion for research, given by these feelings and thoughts.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0132par0043	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Sait Dede, come in.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0133par0044	Mr. President, before we start speaking in favour of the motion, last week, a political operation was conducted against many politicians, including members of the TYK, lawmakers, and our party executives, and we would like to say that we have condemned and condemned these operations against the climate of fear that is intended to be created, that we would never surrender to the climate of fear, that we would challenge those who perform this game to the end of democracy and peace, and that we would fight for democracy and peace. If the performers want to refresh their retrograde memory, they'll find that history's garbage is full of losers who have been staged many times before. Dear lawmakers, as we have now witnessed and experienced, the performanceist AKP has gone to radical changes in Turkey's ministries and institutions since 2012. Instead of capturing and adapting the spirit of the era, the changes have prioritized the exploitation of money and labour with privatisations and performance policies. We don't have time to talk about privatisations. And we don't have time here to explain how many times the education system has been altered and how it's been decomposed today. I'm going to try to express the injustices and problems created by the family physician system and the physicians, without referring to the Court reports that the inheritance AKP had boasted of and the millions of dollars worth of equipment had disappeared. As a family doctor in the past, I'd like to illustrate a few examples of how AKP power operates the country with business sense and mind. Family physicians, whose primary task is to provide protective services and to provide health care, have to keep their positions in line with the conditions set by the Ministry and the health department. It's up to you again how much you're renting because it's still your job to buy and meet the needs of rent, electricity, natural gas, water, medicine, and my knowledge. We're dealing with a Ministry of Health who oversees the control and fitness of the medical supplies you purchased and also measures your performance. The creators of this system are so interested in measuring performances, see, that the first development plan of the party presidency system, the 11th Development Plan, said it would redesign situations such as the performance system of family medicine, the accuracy of diagnosis and treatment and the amount of service. So, let's ask from here: What are you going to do about the groom's minister's economic performance, which doesn't hold up at all, which flips downwards? What are you going to do about the performance of the health minister's performance that he's home to congregations and cults, that the number of cases, the number of patients, the number of deaths are a lie?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0134par0049	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0133par0050	I'm completing it, Mr. President. What are you going to do about the performance of those who produce policies that make citizens a number and statistics a customer in family physicians, guaranteed patients at city hospitals? I would like to say that we have found the group proposal in this sense, and that we support a parliamentary investigation to prevent further exploitation of health workers. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0135par0054	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Ismail Tamer. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0136par0057	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the motion to discuss the problems of the family physicians given by the Republican People's Party. My regards and greetings to all of you from here. The family medicine unit, which started in 2005, which continued until 2010, literally accelerated the health care system in Turkey. As we look at it today, there are 8,009 family health centres in this practice of family medicine; 26.571 family clinics operate; the number of family physicians working here is 23.193. Family health centres continue to provide services with their employees. Again, the population of one physician in Turkey is 3.134. Is that enough? When we look at developed countries around the world, it changes between 2,000 and 3,000 in some countries. Our Ministry of Health studies will show that in 2023, we can draw the measures to this level. Of course, the family medicine unit has done a lot in Turkey; its employees have been highly praised, especially during the period of Covid, during the pandemic period. I'd like to congratulate all health workers who work there, especially our physicians. I also ask God's mercy to all our doctors, nurses, and health workers who died because of Covid. I'd like to remind you that the family physicians, especially in August, have been paid for performance for three months. Dear friends, in order to ensure that performance in family medicine is not misinterpreted, I would like to express that performance in the practice of family medicine may be valid especially in our country for parts of pregnancy, baby and child impressions and inoculations that apply to the presentation of protective health care. Of course, the practice of family medicine has been particularly important to prevent complications with the monitoring, support of the development, early diagnosis and treatment of baby and child health to begin with in the womb, as well as with the screening programmes. Dear friends, I have made a promise against the Republican People's Party's proposal, but I say it is the important work of our Ministry of Health regarding family physicians.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0137par0065	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0136par0066	My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0137par0068	I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are not accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Tuesday (October 6, 2020), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President Mardin MP Tuma Çelik, number 227, who has been published and distributed, has been taken to the 2nd place of the Constitutional and Justice Commission members and to the 2nd place of the Constitutional and Justice Commission Report (the Commission's Commission's Commission Report) and to the first order of the agenda, and to the 221th order of the Commission's proposal to make certain arrangements in the field of Agriculture and Forest, and to the same order of other tasks, according to this, to the first order of the law. 7 8, 13, 14, 15, 20, 21, 22, 27 October 2020 Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday's joint audit issues are not discussed, and the agenda is "Interview of other jobs from the Commissions and other jobs from the Commission, On Tuesday (October 6th 2020), September 30, 2020 and (3/1323) and (3/1325) read the presidential agreements to be held in this joint meeting, which will be carried out for the three members of the Personal Data Protection Board in the same combination, which will continue the work in the unification of the agenda until the work is completed in the "Security chapter," which will be completed. On Wednesday (October 7th 2020), until the meeting of September 30, 2020 and the presidential statement 3/1324 was read and completed in this joint session and passed into the Articles of the Law Proposal No. 221 in the same merger, Until the meeting Tuesday (October 13th 2020) completes the vote on the first chapter of the Law Proposal 221, On Wednesday (October 14, 2020), until the meeting of the Law Proposal No. 221 in the merger on Wednesday (October 14, 2020), It has been suggested that Law Proposal 221 will continue to work until the completion of its talks on Thursday (October 14, 2020) on Thursday (October 15, 2020). Mr. Ramazan Can on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group to explain the motive of the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0138par0089	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. In our proposal, we propose that the Constitutional and Judiciary Commission Report on 227 rows of Mardin MP Tuma Çelik be brought to the top of the agenda in less than 48 hours, and that Agricultural Forest and Village Commission Report 221 be taken to the second place on the agenda, and that the agenda be addressed accordingly. Today, we're going to bring up two dissertations, and then we're going to make a choice about personal data. That's today's work schedule. Tomorrow, we have another review, and we're bringing up the commission report on Mardin MP Tuma Çelik. We recommend that the General Assembly work until the completion of law talks on Thursday at 221 rows. The group awaits your support for our proposal, and I wish you a successful work, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0139par0094	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Zuleyha Gülim. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0140par0097	I want to talk about prisons, and unfortunately, prisons have turned into death houses, especially after the latest Execution Act. At first, Ali Bochnak and Takyettin Ozhraman, two patients were under arrest, they were heavily ill, their lawyers and we and their families insisted on treatment. Although their condition was known, Ali Bochnak was 80 years old, Takyettin Ozahraman was 75 years old, but they were not released, they were not treated, and unfortunately they died in prisons. Also today, Muhammad Emir İbrahim committed suicide at the Elbistan E Type E Prison. Once pressure was applied on him, he was officially forced to be declared dead from Covid. And Elbia Prison still has 15-16 -- of course we don't know the number, the prisons or the Ministry has no transparency on this issue, unfortunately, it doesn't inform us, it's always a cover-up on the Corona cases -- 15-16 Corona cases, as far as we can tell, but not even the rooms are separated, and those who aren't sick are kept in the same place, and unfortunately they're not being treated. Not only in this prison, but in many prisons, even though Corona was actually there, even though there were sick prisoners, they were left to die without treatment. It's the power that's responsible, it's the Justice Department, it's the people who run the prisons. Again, I'd like to talk about Tarosus Prison, Prison No. 3. Mehmet Akım is a serious patient, he needs serious treatment, but the doctor is making the guards ask, "Go see what's wrong," says the guards, says he's got a doctor's medicine. We're talking about this kind of examination in prisons. Again, War Deli, severely beaten, sent from T1 prison to T3 prison where he was subjected to violence by the guards, broken ribs, signs of battery on his face and many places, but he's not being transferred to the hospital, he's not being reported, he's not being treated, he's not being treated. There's a lot of heavy patients outside of Corona in prisons, but the Department of Justice, the General Directorate of Punishment and Inquisitorship, unfortunately, has left these patients to die. Now, who's in charge of these patients? Who has to be responsible for the life of a man, a prisoner, the life of a prisoner? Isn't it the responsibility of the state, the government and the responsible ministries? Obviously, you send these people to their deaths, you cause them to become cripples, and you play with people's lives. What right do you have to do that? Yeah, you sent an 80-year-old man to his death. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I need a minute.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0141par0104	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0140par0105	What conscience, what human rights, what democracy, what democracy is it that really takes you to accept it? There are thousands of people, and with the penal code, you've left everyone, you've left women killers, you've left them without protection, you've risked women's lives, but you've left those inside for political reasons, those inside for thought, those in the press, those inside because they're doing politics, those in prison, and you're leaving them to die right now. Yes, today, perhaps this judgment is in your hands, you run it your way, you issue an acquittal, you make sure that you don't get sued, you don't get sued, you get sued, but trust me, one day when there's real justice in this country, you're gonna answer for it in front of a court of law. You will pay for these deaths, the death of these heavily ill prisoners. These days will pass, and you will pay for them one by one. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0141par0108	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Engin Altay.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0142par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you and the Grand General Assembly. Congressmans, the EC PARTY Group proposal has arrived, and we're discussing it. The proposal begins: 7 8, 13, 14, 15, 20, 21, 22, 27 October 2020 Tuesday, Wednesday, 27 October 2020, Wednesday and Thursday's mergers of the Council of Ministers with the proposals of law and other jobs from the Commission. Now, the 160th Article of the Constitution states that the number of public administrations and social security institutions under the central management budget are tasked with overseeing all revenues and costs and transactions on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and making final decisions on the account and procedures of those responsible and conducting audits and decisions on the basis of the laws. Now, a fraction of the Court's report, which I'm about to present to you, I think, of all the political parties that form the House, should lose sleep tonight. Now, the AK PARTI group recommends that the council do not check. So, I'd like to ask Mr. Deputy Director of the EC Group: "Would you like to shut down irregularities, corruption, thefts, shamelessness, which have been uncovered by court audit reports, with all the group proposals starting without discussing these audit issues?" One example, I'd like to transfer to our deputies, not the Court report, not the CHP report, not the Ce-Ha-Pe report; this is the night that will keep you all out of sleep; I vouch for your honor, patriotism, for all of you, for all of the MPs who formed the Assembly, but I tell you this report has to tell you to give up, and I tell you one from tens of tens of thousands: that TMSF is being paid off because TMS is being paid off by the company's company, and that there are some of the best-valued associations in the district of Ataşehir. Now, this is Congress, not the law factory. Whatever your duty as an outside citizen's MP tells me, I'll tell you right now the two most important tasks, I'll call it law enforcement and auditing. Now, these Court reports are in the middle. There are hundreds, dear friends, hundreds.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0143par0119	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0142par0120	Right away, Mr. President. So let's not count, there's $568 million in irregularity, and I'm not there, very concrete, very clear... Let's all read the Court's Savings Insurance Fund Report, for God's sake. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not a place to condone thefts. During the AK PARTY, something revered, and something went down seven floors: look, during the AK PARTY, it was a plague, but there's no price. If there is a plague, there is a price, and the place to pay the price is the members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit02spe0144par0125	I'd like to put the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0144par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 2nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Members of parliament, we are starting talks on the Constitutional provisions of Article 92 of the Constitution. As per the decision taken, I first read the number-one presidential proposal (3/1323): Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The United Nations (UN) Security Council's decision, dated 25/4/2013 and 2100 (2013), was established in Mali by the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stability Mission (MINUSMA) and the UN Multidimensional Stabilisation Mission (MINUSCA), dated 10/4/2014 and 2149 (2014) in the Central African Republic. In the mandate of MINUSMA, which has been tasted by the UN Security Council's 29/6/2020 Resolution 2531 (2020), its mandate to ensure stability in Mali, support of the ceasefire process, monitor and control of armed groups, support of disarmament and reintegration of arms groups, support for the process of national political dialogue, ensure that the security of Mali is harmonised by international contributions, the protection of UN personnel and civilians, the protection of human rights and support of human rights, the support of human assistance activities, the support of women in the process of re-integration and the accession of women in the field and the development of their security, and the security of their security. On the other hand, in the mission directive of the UN Security Council, dated 15/11/2019 and under its resolution 2499 (2019), is the protection and protection of civilians in the areas in which the mission is located, the detection of threats against civilians and recording of threats to civilians, the establishment of political life in the country and the establishment of state authority, the facilitating of territorial integrity, the providing of humanitarian aid, the protection of UN personnel, the protection of human rights and the protection of human rights, and the protection of human rights to the country, and the restoration of security of security in the country's transition process. The mandates of MINUSMA and MINUSCA are extended by the UN Security Council for a period of time. In this scope, Minusma's mandate was extended until the UN Security Council's decision 2531 (2020) to 30/6/2021, while MINUSCA's mandate was extended to 15/11/2020 with UN Security Council Resolution 2499 (2019). The UN has invited countries to participate in these missions. In addition, the summit on Peacekeeping during the UN 70th General Assembly talks has been called for our country's contribution to the UN Missions. The resolution of humanitarian and political crises that pose a threat to regional stability and peace in Africa has been assessed as a natural extension of our active foreign policy in the region and in general on the African continent and has been granted permissions under Article 92 of the Constitution to ensure our contribution. In this approach, I would like to submit to you the need for Turkish Armed Forces to be sent abroad as part of the operations and missions carried out by the UN in Mali and Central African Republic, and to use these forces under the presidential framework and the basis for which these forces will be used under the final article 8/10/2019 and extended by the Turkish Parliament's Resolution 1232, as of 31/10/20202020. I'm going to open a meeting on the presidential charter under Article 72 of the Civil Code, and I'm going to promise two members on behalf of the group and the person. Their talking time is 20 minutes each for the groups and ten minutes for the individuals. I read the names of the members of the MPs who took the stand on the counter: Mr Muhammad Naci Cinisli on behalf of the People's Movement Party Group, Mr İsmail Özdemir on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Mr. Engin Altay on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Ismet Yılmaz on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; first word for the individuals, Mr. Yunus Emre, second word for Mr. Halis Dalkilic. Now the first word on behalf of the Good PARTY Group is for Mr. Muhammad Naci Cinisli. Here you go, Mr. Cinisli.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0145par0021	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our beloved nation and the General Assembly. I wish that the year of the fourth legislature of the 27th term should be a positive contribution to our Parliament, our nation, our democracy. As part of the operations carried out by the United Nations in Mali and the Central African Republic, I received a pledge on the presidential paper sent to deploy our armed forces abroad. We welcome the contribution of the state of the Republic of Turkey, a world state to preserve world peace, to the United Nations peacekeeping forces. We proudly follow the services of the Turkish Armed Forces, which he has served in Somalia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Afghanistan, Iraq, and other peacekeeping forces. May God not destroy our army, our state, our nation, and make the army of our kingdom last for a time. First of all, according to Article 92 of our Constitution, our armed forces have the authority to allow them to be sent to foreign countries in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. In other words, we all have that responsibility. As noted in the statement, the boundaries, the sums, and the time must not be left under one person's authority, and these matters must be appreciated and determined by our Parliament. As a result, we surrender the will of our House and our nation to one person, no matter who it may be. Let's not forget that if the president is disturbed by the presidential system -- God forbid -- the president is unable to serve -- then the person who will be acting instead will be the one that our nation does not choose, unknown, unmanaged, appointed. Through this thesis, the parliamentary system once again reminds us and our nation of its importance. Any critical decision must be made within the parliamentary system by consulting and including people's opinions. In the party presidency government system, the President can't run a wrong system correctly, no matter who he is. Dear MPs, under the umbrella of the United Nations, we are discussing the extension of our armed forces under the Sahara in Mali and Central African Republic. We know that the African continent has very rich underground resources, and it also has a potential for those living on the continent to live at a high level of prosperity, but because the continent has been exploited over the years, the natural resources of the continent have not been used by Africans, so African countries have not achieved the standards they deserve. The borders of most African countries have been negotiated by colonial states at desks. Sadly, this causes civil war, civil conflict, and border warfare in Africa. Such an environment increases hunger and poverty in Africa. So, what kind of place do our Armed Forces, our heroic Mehmets serve? The financial Republic has been hit four times since 1968. In recent months, allegations of fraud in the results of the parliamentary elections held in Mali. The following protests and the arrest of the opposition leader have left the country in serious chaos. The dissolution of the Financial Constitutional Court, which has been charged with tampering with election results, and the appointment of new members in the court have not reduced the violence of street demonstrations. The coupists finally seized the administration on August 18th and arrested the President and Prime Minister of Mali. Our country has expressed its deep concern and regret over the coup in the financial community, its strong expectation of the release of arrested senior officials and the immediate return to constitutional order in the country. This statement, however, was interpreted by the world public that the coupgers were not properly condemned, making the foreign policy of our country controversial by Mr. Foreign Minister's official visit to finance last September. Frankly, we're wondering why Mr. Secretary of Foreign Affairs is so sensitive to the coupgers in Mali. On the other hand, the EC PARTI's firm response to the coup in Egypt in particular makes comparisons with the response to the blow in Mali. In financial matters, if our interests are being acted on national interests, the country should be able to act on realistic ground under any circumstances, and the same attitude and attitude should be displayed without wasting time in other countries. I don't know in what words to express this sensitivity to finance that was not shown to Egypt, which was of great importance to our country's vital interests. It is more than rookieial to not know that exclusion of Egypt is contrary to our interests in many different areas. For many years, we have expressed that Egypt is not to be excluded from the Mediterranean. What do you know about us? What just happened? When things got bad, and unfortunately, in foreign policy, it came to Egypt when the AK PARTY showed its ability to be wronged while it was right. Before we miscalculated in Libya, we should have been able to meet Egypt when our hands were much stronger. We, the GOOD PARTY, argue that foreign policy should be made for the benefit of Turkey, without prejudices, without prejudices, without human measures. It is no longer believable that the relations with Egypt were not established because there was a coupger. So much so that the extremely bad governance, reduction and even sabotage of relations with Egypt caused great damage to the high interests of the state of the Republic of Turkey. The reason for our difficulties with the Eastern Mediterranean, which we are right, is also related to our wrong Egyptian policy. Moreover, the level of our relations with Israel did not benefit Turkey, nor did it benefit Palestine, which we had wasted relations for the sake of the worse. In foreign policy, the issue is to leave the doors open and to keep negotiations sustainable; it's a business of mind, of politics, of foreign policy. With resentment and opportunistic politics, there will be no domestic politics, no foreign politics. As we build on the argument, we do not recognize the power that the United Nations recognises in Syria. The efforts to overthrow the United Nations by their word have led to the fall of our word in the international community, which has negatively affected the validity of our promise. I present to you this detail, rather than questioning our position here in Syria, to demonstrate the inconsistency of the statements of our foreign policymakers. I have to make it very clear that when you're presenting your thesis in foreign policy, it shouldn't contradict what you do with what you do. In Libya, I support the government known to the United Nations, so I'm right. If you say so, they ask you, are you wrong in Syria? Please don't take that as an expression that you're doing wrong in Syria or Libya. I'm trying to explain in foreign policy how sloppy and analytic their AK PARTY thesis is. We don't see the inconsistencies of the procedure as the good party, unfortunately, as well as the foreign public. Foreign policy is serious. That's what's going on with the foreign policy for non-foreseeing, non-responsive, non-knowledge-free domestic policy. There's been foreign policy for domestic policy for a long time. Dear MPs, another problem where our Turkish Armed Forces serve under the umbrella of the United Nations is the Central African Republic. We know there's been a lot of damage done here. Lastly, the crisis continued despite the agreement signed in January 2013, when the militias called themselves Seleka (Seleka) focused on the government forces of the Central African Republic in December 2012. The Seleka militia moved to the capital in March 2013, where the President left the country and on March 24, 2013, Seleka's leader declared himself head of state in a military coup. After the coup, security in the country was not established for many years. Then the President and the Prime Minister began their duties as a result of the elections held in the Central African Republic in 2016. Today, however, in different cities of the country, the people are divided into Christian and Muslim neighborhoods. The difference between religion and tribe in the country leads to conflict. Finally, however, a peace agreement was signed in February 2019 with 14 armed groups in the government and Central African Republic. Our hope is that peace and stability will be established in both the Central African Republic and the entire African continent. Our country must, of course, follow a multidimensional foreign policy against both North African countries and sub-Saharan African countries. In addition, Turkey is a valuable country that can transfer 150 years of parliamentary experience, democratic achievements, republic values, economic experience to the entire African continent. Congressmans, we can't assume that the Armenia-Azerbaijan conflict in Karabakh is irrelevant to Turkey. I would like to point out that a new front has been set in the wake of our country's problems in the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean. I'm concerned that our country is being surrounded. I'd like to point out that we should be very careful in this frame, that we shouldn't suddenly fall into the trap of being a Turkish-Russian issue, when it seems like it's an Armenia-Azerbaijan matter. Karabakh is a Turkish homeland, and Azerbaijan is quite right in his thesis. The borders of the United Nations are Azerbaijan soil. When you're right and you're strong, like in other areas, this position must not be lost. By making more noise than Azerbaijan, I would like to emphasize that there is no need to make an impression as if we were involved. Let's not put Azerbaijan on the spot. Even though we do not view the Turkish-Azerbaijan brotherhood as an external issue as the PARTI, the one nation is described as two states, we cannot allow our Azerbaijan brothers and our very vital case to be used as an instrument in the internal policy in which the EC PARTI is in a deadlock. So far, we are fully behind the support of our state and government of the Republic of Turkey. Praise be to God, we see that Azerbaijan has great military superiority over Armenia. I believe that this superiority will continue, and the Turtle will be taken back, and the table will be seated. But we also know of times when the advantage of the field didn't work the same way on the table. Besides the advantage in the field, we need to increase the number of friends and favour-thinking states through international relations, so that Azerbaijan is the winner at the table. The role of Turkey is here. Let's not trouble Azerbaijan's position by developing an attitude as if we were the number one part of the matter and making it a subject of domestic politics again. Please don't let the Azerbaijan case go to waste, which is so justified that the EC PARTI view as an opportunity to recover from its troubled situation in domestic politics. We are witnessing another equivalent of France's attempts throughout history. I'm afraid we're reliving the same conditions that occurred before World War I. In the process of coming here, there must also be talk about the mistakes of the AK PARTY government. Money policies are not governed by money in the economy. With faith in your word, with dignity, with confidence, many problems will be solved. In this regard, monetary policies are governed by the word of the Central Bank and political authority. More capital than money is credit. It's not just the money, it's the reputation of the markets. Today, we also see similar reasons in diplomacy when monetary policies are not properly managed. Foreign policy cannot be ruled by military power at every time the word is invalid. It is a great risk to activate and test the Turkish army, which is known for its deterrent, which always terrorizes the enemy because the word is out of practice in the misguided foreign policy. Foreign policy is a country's front line of defense, its security, its ability to rule economic geography, its power. With the confidence of politics and the country's commitment, foreign policy and international relations are governed. I'm afraid the ruling Turkish Republic of Turkey today has no longer a consistent foreign policy. Turkey's international relationship strategy to operate only through leaders must now be seen as ineffective. We don't even have relations with our neighbors, let alone countries that are actors in a global sense. Without wasting time, we must abandon inter-country personal relations and return to institutional diplomacy, which has been run by the state of the Republic of Turkey since the Ottoman state. Dear lawmakers, of course we welcome efforts to improve relations with the EU. We're in favor of our relations with the European Union getting closer. But a relationship is not a compromise. Our relations with the acceptance of our thesis should be put in order to compromise the spoils of Greece, in the eastern Mediterranean, in the Aegean. We oppose the efforts of the European Union to accept itself as part of the Eastern Mediterranean. The European Union is not part of the Eastern Mediterranean. The European Union is trying to involve itself in the Eastern Mediterranean, using Greece, and South Cyprus. A game like this shouldn't be played. Greece is always trying to make concessions from Turkey, which is more confident of the support of other states, institutions than it is of itself. There are compromises when Greece and I are thought to be friends every time it softens. For example, the continental shelf, the FIR line, the airspace. Let's not compromise Cyprus again in exchange for the stance shown in the eastern Mediterranean. Let's negotiate at all costs. Let's negotiate unconditionally. What does that mean? ▪ Preliminary negotiation is open-ended compromises. If there is to be a negotiation in the eastern Mediterranean, it must be met with other countries. There should be no negotiation with Greece alone. The goal of the European Union is to draw us away from Cyprus and establish sovereignty in the Eastern Mediterranean. If we lose our rights from the 1960 Guarantee Agreement in Cyprus, we will not be able to take a stand in the Eastern Mediterranean. If we go back to the 1960 Guarantee Agreement, we still have 650 troops left in Cyprus. In 1959 I remember the late Prime Minister Adnan Menderes and the late Minister of Foreign Affairs Fatin Rüştütü, who provided the substructure of this treaty with the Treaty of Zurich and London, with mercy and gratitude. At the end of my words, I'd like to bring to your attention one more thing about the beginning of today's developments in Cyprus and the eastern Mediterranean. I want you to remember how the opposition to the late Rauf Denktas, the great statesman who dedicated himself to the trial in the 2003 elections of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, was supported by the EC PARTI. Again, we see from some confessional foreign documents that the opposition was supported by external forces along with the EC PARTY. During a visit to Turkey, the deceased Denktash had been contacted by the AK PARTY authorities, who had been told in his hometown. The great Mujahid Rauf Denktaş and we Turkish nationalists, patriots, democrats were offended. The Annan Plan in 2004 came to our attention after faithful to the Cypriot trial, Rauf Denktash and his opinion were defeated by the opposition supported by the EC PARTY in the 2003 elections. The Annan Plan, which, in great effort, tried to get our Cypriot brothers to vote yes, was not accepted by the Greeks by God's grace; even today, if Annan had accepted the Plan, the Eastern Mediterranean policy, which looked at Merkel's phone, would have been untenable. On this occasion, the late Rauf Denktas, the late Fazil Minor, and all our heroes, all our martyrs, who served the cause. Similar to the events in Cyprus, unnecessary relations with Armenia in 2009 almost reduced our relations with Azerbaijan, which we described as two states of one nation. The Zürich Protocols, signed with Armenia in 2009, were not implemented by the Armenians again by the grace of the Genab and was finally repealed as one-sided by Armenia on March 1, 2018. To start a diplomatic initiative with Armenia and football and assume that there will be results, is to think that you never understood the Armenian issue. You don't have to be a foreign expert to know that such an unspecified enterprise won't yield results. If you could turn a fellowman from the streets of Erzurum, my country, which lived closest to the Armenian meme, even if you asked him, he would tell you about it. Starting this initiative meant losing Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) forever. WITH all the power of a good PARTI-run Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and Azerbaijan (Azerbaijani), our country will make a high policy in the world, and I salute our General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0146par0042	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Ismail Özdemir, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0147par0044	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Actions for the Office of the President of the United Nations on accession to the Fiscal and Central African Republic missions. I salute our Veteran Assembly with love and respect. In historical perspective, we see the fact that the African continent is more important than what is thought of in our view. In 1071, we began our conquest of Anatolia, and in 1453, we built Istanbul into an eternal Turkish homeland, and then we continued with the Balkan geography, and we did not only gain military and political superiority, but we also took control of global trade in every way. Because with our land domination of the Caucasus, Crimea, the Balkans, the Middle East and North Africa, our sea dominations in the Caspian, the Black Sea, the Mediterranean, the Red Sea, and the Persian Gulf have allowed us to control Silk and Spice Roads as the most important trade sites of the time. This means Turkey's government is registered in every area, and each environment has had to apply to Ottoman's permission, especially in this particular commercial issue, in which case everyone has seen that Asia and especially India and China have no access; however, countries like Britain, the Netherlands and Portugal were born in search of new routes of transportation and trade to get access to Asia to Portugal. In time, other European countries have followed it. Thus, from the 16th century onwards, some European countries have sought to achieve their goal by moving around the African continent by weighing on their naval power and roads. Through this long-distance route, and as a result, not only has a new global trade route been born, but the coasts of West and South Africa have been occupied and colonised over time, in order to ensure the supply and logistics of the same countries. This affected property and state systems in Europe, bringing innovations in education and technical equipment. When colonial intellectuals brutally used every resource of Africa, they enslaved their people and used them as means of their own wealth by taking their underground and aboveground resources away from them. Colonist activities from the West and South Africa began to spread over time to central and other parts of the African continent. Until the 1960s, the same colonial activities in many parts of modern - day Africa have continued, and it is possible to say that even today, even though the African countries have been seen to have survived the colonies, they have continued, unfortunately, to this day. So the environments that want to take advantage of global Turkish dominance continue their dirty activities today to fight global domination, with their inhuman policies on the African continent. Maybe colonialism can be seen as an actual end, but the countries that have this goal have left behind regimes and names to serve them, and through the same channels, they are trying to reach their own goals today. Against those who refuse to serve themselves, local armed groups and terrorist organizations have created a new agenda, forcing them to draw the conditions back into the area they want. Many African countries in the grip of poverty and poverty have yet to recover from these cruel intentions. The rich underground sources of Africa's continent, which attracts attention at the rate of population growth, continue to boost the appetite of countries with bad intentions to seek markets and raw materials for them. On the other hand, because of the presence of important transit routes to the Mediterranean and Indian Ocean via the Red Sea, areas on the eastern side of the African continent are still among the main goals of countries who want to take part in the global superiority struggle today. The fact that there are several military bases in Djibouti alone at the same time is a clear example of this issue. Given the historical perspective and today's conditions, Turkey is obliged to address its relations with Africa with a comprehensive policy of importance, human-based vision and bilateral rights and interests. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have witnessed history and human memory that we Turks have been in Africa for many years. Our mighty Khan, Yavuz Sultan Selim Khan, was born in a large part of the African continent to begin the Egyptian campaign. Today, we are commemorated by the many European states of Africa and so - called the African continent with crimes described as genocide, and we are remembered by the services that we served there centuries ago. Happily, this continuing humanitarian aid today is the most important factor in the vision of Turkey that separates it from other countries in Africa. Thus, our presence in international initiatives that contribute to peace and stability in Africa, such as the arguments we are negotiating, should be viewed as a significant and valuable responsibility for history, the people of the region and our vision for the future. Of course, we didn't create the problems that existed on the African continent, but it's also clear that helping Africans overcome their own problems has to be followed by a policy that will set an example. It also contributes to our national interests, both North Africa and South Africa, to ensure that the positive relations we have developed with countries at two ends of the continent spread throughout the continent. In addition to the experience of our country's cross-border migrations and anti-terrorism experiences, as shown in the outbreak of Covid-19, sharing our vast and valuable potential in health care with countries in Africa will also increase our country's potential as well. Taking into account 2019 data, the number of embassies that exist on the African continent has reached 42. Our trade volume has exceeded 25 billion dollars across the continent, Turkish Airlines has reached 58 destinations in 38 countries, and TİKA activities are already important and valuable. It is clear, however, that it cannot be satisfied. With our competencies in transportation, mining, energy and agriculture, co-working with our African friends can reflect the practice of our entrepreneurial foreign policy. Given the fact that most countries in Africa are behind in development, it would be helpful for Turkey to focus on the infrastructure investments that these countries want to make. The way to be followed through these investments is not only to invest, to get paid, but to provide experience and information transfers to the African countries where we have friendly relationships, where no one can provide them. Because African countries today are uncomfortable with the new-century colonial understanding that has condemned them for investment, as well as the environments that are looking for opportunities to assess their own impotence. In addition to offering assistance needed to save African countries from the main source of terrorism, the continent is the source of instability, it should also create reasonable channels for the sale of military equipment and vehicles, which are the products of the Turkish defence industry, which dominates the fight against terrorism. In this sense, it is evident that it is important to establish a military fair and security forum that will address only the African continent. The development of both technology and the need for innovation, especially in space space space space space, both our country's global vision, as well as the lack of African countries in this sense, bring us another area in which we can create new conditions for competition across the continent. While Turkey is establishing its national goals for space, it can be created by a partnership involving African countries, with another key foot in the new century of mutual gains. It shouldn't just be about increasing our trade volumes in the African continent, finding new military bases for our rights and interests along with our national security, or access to resources that we don't have. With the strategy beyond that, it must be well understood that relations with Africa can be improved in a much wider area. Of course, if we succeed in doing so, it will be seen that the issues at stake will not be a challenge for us. The meaning of the purpose of offering human life should be shown in Africa as to what the reflection of the Turkish nation's great state philosophy is. Especially in the 21st century, we need to understand that solidarity with African countries is a priority in order to do so. In various opportunities, the averageness of the present global system is greater than the official expression of Turkey, which is expressed when it comes to the agenda. The meaning of its expression is much more echoing in Africa. In our measure, it must be essential to establish the peace of mankind. Turkey was not a colonialist in Africa yesterday, and it never was. If he shows in every way that he intends to grow together for today and for tomorrow, let no one doubt, the doors in Africa will open more for us. In this context, we also thank the TİKA, Turkish Airlines and other NGOs who reflect Turkey's prestige on the African continent and take responsibility for extending the Turkish nation's hand to our African brothers and sisters. In addition, another importance that Africa has in terms of security diplomacy should not be taken out of focus because it is at the head of areas in which it has an eye for its own place. It's been known that this terrorist organization has already moved some financial resources to some countries in Africa. In addition, it is known that the schools are showing themselves in the same geography. Turkey must step up its close diplomatic activities, if there are areas of weakness, to prevent and destroy all activities of the terrorist organization that are at stake, and then not find a place in Africa after that. While Turkey continues its journey in the 21st century with a large global vision, the value of efforts to further promote Turkish-educating courses in Africa must be met and expanded. Although most already live in the northern part of the continent, a significant number of Turkish populations live on the African continent should never be taken out of their minds. Precious lawmakers are Mali, the Western African country, which has a large area of 1,21,000 square kilometers from France's colony in 1960. The attack on armed groups in 2013 resulted in the capture of some cities in the country, which led to the intervention of France. The same year, MINUSMA was launched within the United Nations. In the ongoing years, the turnout rate in the elections has been low, and allegations of doubt have led the country to a deep political crisis. However, protests have brought social problems to the highest level, with the growing poverty and the expansion of jobs. Finally, on August 18, 2020, the country's military coup opened the gates of a new era. In the current situation, the United Nations ECOWAS and the African Union are closely following the situation in Mali. What is remarkable is the sudden silence of France, which has been unconditionally supporting Abraham Boubacar Keita (Ibrahim Boubacar) by this date. The importance of finance for France is not only because this country is an old colony, but also because some armed groups have been tried to be sent to Libya to Mali. Therefore, the developments in Mali (Fali) these days should not only be ignored by the fact that this country and West Africa (Western Africa) are involved in the northern part of the continent and Libya. The road that Mali will follow during the following period carries the risk or opportunity of modeling for some other African countries at the same time. At such a time, it was a remarkable development when our foreign minister visited the financial community on 9 September 2020, expressing our country's support with the brothers Malili. However, it would be a satisfactory development to be forwarded to Turkey's sensitivities as to the immediate transfer of the country's administration to civil administration after the military coup. We think it is important that our country's support for the normalisation and stability of the finances should not be spared during this period. Likewise, for Central Africa, which has not yet achieved the climate of stability and peace, it is important that our country supports efforts under the United Nations. In addition to its geostrategic potential, which is central to the continent, the presence of many persecuted Muslims in this country brings with it another importance that our country should have direct attention. While most of the problems present in the Central African Republic have populations and historical features from environmental countries, the case of the failure to overcome problems has the potential to jump to other neighbouring countries as well. Given this situation, contributing to the normalisation of the Central African Republic should be considered an important support for the rest of the continent. As the National Movement Party, I'd like to say that we will vote in a positive way for the extension of the motions sent to our Parliament for another year. Our desire is that our country contributes to the overcoming of human and political crises that pose a threat to regional stability and peace in Africa, so that it is considered a fine example of our foreign policy, followed by Turkey on the African continent. Before I put an end to my words, honorable lawmakers condemning Armenia's invasion of the Mountain Karabağ region, crimes and aggression of humanity, making efforts within the scope of its rightful rights to save its own lands, to eliminate its attacks, and to ensure its safety, I ask for blessings on the fellow nation of Azerbaijan, Azerbaijan, the Turkish soldiers of Azerbaijan, to bless the Cenab of Allah. Our hope and our faith is that Can Azerbaijan will quickly save his occupied lands, thus securing regional peace and stability. The attempt to spread the aggression of Armenia to areas outside of Mount Karabakh, such as Tovuz and Gence, is a result of a humiliating but unprovoked account. Those who think that the matter will be closed before the Mountain Karabakh returns to its rightful place will enter into a great illusion. The call of those who have not stepped forward for 30 years to resolve this issue, especially the Minsk Group, to halt their conflicts these days is a great trap for the existence of Turkish rule in the Caucasus, an unacceptable, insincere exit. From our national poets, Ziya Gökalp, who died, seized the enemy's home. He says, "Go, you are the son of Azilla." /Don't say civilization, don't hear it, let there be no stones on that deaf/stone, let there be no flat roads, let there be no flat roads, and remember that you are the son of the hill/Atillaan! This is the day when Azerbaijan reveals his will, and Turkishness will not accept humiliation, and will condemn him to kneel before him. It is clear who is the invader and who is entitled to the right in Mount Karabağ, and is fixed by the United Nations decisions. In these circumstances, we believe that the participation of the Nahçivan Autonomous Republic in the Republic of Azerbaijan is essential, historical imperative, a very urgent need, a matter of life and death, if you will. And as I put an end to my words, I salute our Veteran Assembly with love and respect, in the hope that the conquistador may be a blessing.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0148par0060	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Hakkı Saruhan Oluç. Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0149par0063	Mr. President, Congressmans, Mali is an African country that has been suffering from instability and coups for many years. The problems of ethnic groups, particularly corruption and economic problems, and the derivative of Al Qaeda, ISIS and so on, have made Mali (Fali) vulnerable to instability and external interference. The lack of fiscal stability also expanded the movement of gangs in the region. I would like to take this opportunity to address the problems these gang structures have created in the Middle East, in our region, Iraq and Syria. And on account of today's October 6th, I'd like to remind you of October 6, 8th, 2014 and what happened. At that time, the ISIS terrorist group had massacred thousands of people in the major cities and regions of Syria and Iraq. Millions of Kurds, Turkmen, Arab, Alevi, Christian, Ezidi and various religious people had emigrated from their homes, sold women in markets, raped people, cut off their heads, destroyed cities and invaded them, aimed at creating a government space for themselves. In such a period of time, ISIS, which was intended to create a geography of violence, also surrounded the city of Kobani. By using heavy weapons of mass destruction and bombings against the people of this city, ISIS was attacking this city from all sides. The city of Kobani, you know, is a settlement of close relatives of our citizens in Suruç district of Turkey, which is only a few hundred metres away from the state border. The boundary has become almost artificial in terms of people's relationships, relatives, social and social intimacy. Men are the children of aunts, and the son-in-law, and the daughter-in-law, and they come and go to one another, and trade at the door of the infidel border. A massacre here would mean a great deal of discomfort for our Kurdish citizens. Therefore, both Iraq and Syria's Alevi, Turkmen, Arab, Kurdish, Christian communities called for constant sensitivity to the possible massacres of the regions they lived in due to the aim of ISIS. During the mentioned period, the world's public calls for sensitivity in various ways to stop the ISIS gangs from committing crimes against humanity. In this sense, the international coalition against ISIS gangs waged a political and military struggle against ISIS. On many occasions, Turkey and the world's democratic public, especially our party, have criticised the government's stance on these barbaric gangs, calling on the Republic of Turkey to fight this terrorist organisation that has committed crimes against humanity before the eyes of the world. In response, the Justice and Development Party's government has long been insensitive to all calls made to insist. The government of the Justice and Development Party, which opened and closed the Murhidzınar Border Gate, which lies on the Kobani border, to refugees who fled from the war and humanitarian aid, has become extremely problematic. I'd like to briefly mention and remind you what kind of political climate it was on October 6th and 8th. The solution process was under way in Turkey on 6-8 October 2014. The Imralı talks continued with the government in Ankara. The process was broken, it wasn't finished. Some of the talks held at Imralı were discussed as well as the situation in Syria. In Turkey, how will the solution to the Kurdish problem affect Kurds at the regional level, Iran, Iraq and Syria, so how will relations with Kurds be established there while dealing with issues concerning the security of Turkey; how will the state of the Republic of Turkey have relations with Kurds, who are their own citizens in the new century, as well as with other Kurds who live in other countries, all of which were at that time controversial? In September, ISIS began to surround Kobani in this political environment. With great military strength, with tanks, with artillery, he began to surround Kobani with heavy weapons from Mosul. In Kobani, about 100,000 people came from other places and settled there, and the town's population was already three hundred. They were increasing ISIS operations, attacks, actions, and they were coming to the town centre, leaving the villages. Once ISIS had taken it, he would have almost no obstacle to controlling the entire Turkish border. Thousands of people were in danger of being slaughtered; in many places protests that spread for twenty, twenty-five days were being carried out for this reason within Turkey's borders and in all the countries of the world. In the evening hours of October 6th, the ISIS terror organization was once again confronted with the possibility of the massacre of civilians following the siege of the Murhidzınar Border Gate, the only link to the world. In this regard, the inhabitants of Kobani have phoned us with their demands on the fulfillment of the situation and emergency measures. The border gate from both sides was surrounded, and there was a danger that it would fall at any time, and if it did, after the door of the infidel border was taken, the ties of Kobani would be cut off completely. In the event of the extraordinary meeting, our head of the centre executive board, the Co-Chair of the period, Selahattin Demirtaş, reached out to the Prime Minister on the telephone, and was given full disclosure of the need for immediate humanitarian intervention and the opening of the corridor. The details of the conversation are in the memory of those who lived that day, and I am in the memory of those who lived that day, what was said. The words said by the Prime Minister of the period that the demands will be carried out within a few hours are in our memory, but we have discovered that no steps were taken by the government to prevent the massacre. In order to move the government, to prevent the world from being watched by a possible massacre, the situation in Kobani has been shared by the public by us, this sharing and the demand for emergency measures is the most basic call for democratic rights, a constitutional right to democratic protest. We're in the process of resolving, we're negotiating, and we're also making sure that we don't get into a position that will easily conflict with the government. That's what the government takes care of in their relationship with us, and those who know those days will remember. The urgent call for democratic democratic action is the most fundamental right of democratic mass organisations, political parties and civil society institutions because such calls, which are one of the ways in which governments are resorted to creating sensitivity in society and acting in favour of protecting human rights and rights in the face of various problems, are used to create democratic protests and sensitivity. The urgent call for democratic solidarity is not, in any way, a call to encourage or insinuate violence; it is a call for total, democratic sensitivity. It has been made clear by the United Nations High Commissioner of Refugees that the government's policy on crimes against humanity committed in Kobani has been wrong and that the closure of Turkish border crossings to refugees in need of humanitarian assistance is not in accordance with the criteria of the United Nations High Commissioner of Refugees. So it is our primary duty to create public opinion and to create a political weight in order to protect the right to live and change the practice of the Justice and Development Party's government, which, after a while, served as the Justice and Development Party's government. So on October 29th, after 6-8 October 2014, on October 29th, he took steps on the 29th of October. I'll be back here in a little while. Now, on October 7th and then hundreds of citizens have died, hundreds of people have died and died in the middle of the street as a result of the clash between the protesters and the various groups against these actions, the use of non-profit and excessive force of security forces against the public, shooting at the masses. Even though no legal action has been initiated, those who committed these massacres have been taken into custody and have been taken advantage of. That's what the Justice and Development Party government is really doing. Not only in Diyarbakir, but there is not a single prisoner of lynching incidents in İzmir, Antalya, Batman, all over the place. After what we've done, I'd like to point out in a parentheses. As our congresswoman friends and Parliament Group, we've submitted research and questions in Parliament over and over again; we've stood on the stand, we've explained; let's set up a research commission; let's figure out how these provocations happened, who was in charge, who was in charge, who was in charge, who was in politics, and who was in law; we've asked Parliament to prepare a report. Because there was going to be lawsuits about him, and we wanted to build an infrastructure for these cases, and we wanted to learn from politics together, but we always rejected those motions with the ruling votes, and our questions weren't answered. So we're the ones who want to be investigated, keep it secret. You're the ones who say. Because you had another problem: slandering, arresting, lynching in public; your goal was to purge HDP (HDP) from democratic politics, to perform a revenge operation, so you refused to accept these suggestions. Now, we have, of course, dropped the motions for research as a record of history, and in this period, the judicial authority on the deaths, judicial executions, and lynchings has not taken a single concrete step at the point of finding perpetrators, except in one case. We're the ones who say that the people responsible for these deaths must be exposed at all times, but the judgment has been silenced until the last few days. Now, I'd like to go back and make a few reminders. Mr. Mush said today: "Talk, talk, nothing is kept secret." Yes, we will talk, we will talk about it all the time. Let's go back now: October 1, 2014, then Prime Minister Davutoglu and our co-Chair, Selahattin Demirtaş, are meeting with them, and they are also accompanied by our MP Selma River. There's a statement coming out of the prime minister's office. Why is this meeting happening? Because it's obvious what happened in Kobani. Look, I'm talking about October 1st, there's an announcement, and it's said that the interview went well. We're not just saying this, Yalçın Akdoğan, your MP is making a statement right now, and he says: "The meeting was very intimate, it was important to reduce tension. Look at the newspapers, Salih Müslim is being invited to Turkey two days later, and he is coming in, and he's interviewing with the Secretary of Foreign Affairs, conveying his demands, returning his demands, as a result of that meeting. At the time, Prime Minister Davutoglu -- you'll open the press again, you'll read the press -- we made a clear offer to Salih Müslim. We said, "There is a solution process in Turkey now, we look at you differently, but you have to cut off the regime and join the Syrian National Coalition, you have to act with other Kurdish groups." It all happened on the same days, one after the other. A year after the events of Kobani, Salih Müslim and Asia Abdullah came to Turkey and went to Europe via Turkey. In Turkey, Ataturk and Esenboğa moved to France using airports, a year later. These were all developments after October 6th and 8th. Now, many places on October 6th -- I've just told you -- there were various protests committed after 20 percent of September 15th, and none of them shed a drop of blood in any of these protests, none of these protests, none of our citizens died in these protests -- there's no extremism, no violence, no violence on October 6th. There are protests in Istanbul on 6 October, Diyarbakır, Batman, Adıyaman, Adıyaman, many places, ongoing, during the day hours. No incidents, no outbursts, no acts of violence. At the time we're calling, many parts of Turkey are already taking large, small walks, protests. No minor violence, no injuries, no killing, no looting, no nothing, no police intervention. The next day, until the noon of October 7th, nothing, at 2:30 p.m., one of our citizens was killed by the police. On the same day, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan makes the unfortunate statement at the refugee camp in Antwerp at around 2:00 p.m. saying: "Kobani has fallen, he will fall." That's it, that's the explanation that triggers everything. Violence is starting, and obviously there's an ambush.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0150par0080	For God's sake! You're all white and white.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0149par0081	I'll tell you, sir, you answer me later, we'll keep talking. I mean, there were people waiting in the mist. I say, as soon as the ambushers hear about it, they act.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0150par0083	You're all white and white.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0149par0084	Now, the perpetrator of our 25-year-old citizen, who was still killed in Varto, has not been exposed, but is still known to be the shooter.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0150par0085	Report it, report it.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0151par0087	You'll answer anyway.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0149par0088	Now, sir, the D.A. knows, and the D.A. isn't doing any research. What's easy? Throw it on the HDP. There are witnesses, shots fired from the police station, but look, these provocations don't stop. Now, on the one hand, there are attacks on the buildings of HEDAPAR, on the other hand, on HDP's buildings. HÜDAPAR and HDP are trying to pit each other against each other. At the same time, they are done in close proximity to each other, and at the end of that, many HDPs and HUDAPARs are being slaughtered by unidentified individuals. So are Yasin Bör and his friends, and so are our friends in Antwerp, and so are our friends in İzmir, who are lynched to death. Look, it's not retaliation, it's close-by. In Turkey, we actually know how such provocations are organized, how they're done, there are many examples of that. Social media is being used, social media is being screened, lynching footage is being shot, and behind it, things continue to grow. Now, this goes on until October 8th. So, what are we doing at this hour? We're looking for all our county and county agencies, so do whatever you can to stop all violence. We're giving you the directive, we're looking for every city and county agency, don't come to provocacations. Try to avoid looting, killing, violence wherever there is. It's not about us, it's definitely a big provocation. We're saying this and you're not gonna believe it, but I'm gonna tell you something you're gonna believe. Sırrıyya Önder, who was in custody the other day, gave his statement at the prosecutor's office. I'm going to read you a very small piece from here, and we can distribute that statement to anyone who wants it. In his statement, he said: "I was in the Ministry of Internal Affairs for forty, eight hours, and we were in office. There was me and Idris Bauken in the room. He explained that he and I worked together to end all these provocations. So, now, your MP, Minister of Interior Efkan Ala, knows everything. On that day, he said: "There are security forces that we can't control, that we can't control." Now, we want all of this to be talked about, yes, we want all of this to be talked about. Now, in the Ministry of Interior, our deputies, our executive chief, Sırrı Süzeyya Leader, and Efkan Ala is a witness to all of this, and we've done everything we can to prevent acts of violence from happening. That was not enough. I got a message from Ocalan from Imran. On October 9th, in a hurry, in handwriting. Did we bring that message? No. You brought him, the government brought him, and you brought him so that we could read him, and in that message the call of Ocalan was clear. The provocations must stop immediately, the demonstrations must stop, the act of violence is not from us, it is agitator. He said in that message, and on that message, he said step by step those actions, those provocations stopped. Did it stop? He didn't stop. He stood there, but there was a provocation in Bingol. You remember there was a provocation in Bingol. News of the assassination of the Chief Constable of Bingol, three police officers were killed, and he was injured. It's so big that these provocations, these provocateurs, they didn't give up, but eventually it turned out to be a big provocation, and your government revealed it. Now it happened on October 6th, 8th. Twenty days later, on October 29th, the border crossing between Turkey and Kurdistan Federal Region's state of Iraq entered the Habur. 150 hepmerg 80 convoys from Habur, using Silk Road. That's what they wanted done then. If it hadn't been for 20 days later, none of our citizens would have lost their lives. There's no crime, the call itself does not involve violence or violence, and there's no possibility of violence when we do it. We worked for three days to encourage a violent act, to stop the slightest act of violence that we could, and to stop it, all our efforts, all our efforts, all our efforts. I told you, the Home Secretary is a witness. So, instead of investigating the real cause of the 6-8 October provocations, who were the ones who did it, why did they do it, instead of exposing all of this, why did you choose cheap politics, and come out with the slogans of the responsible HDP? Why did you open the road to the next election to undercut the HDP (HDP) who was prepared to enter it as a party and also to July 15th? We'll discuss all of this, of course. We don't say this, the Home Secretary told our friends that we've identified the members of the community, Iranian intelligence, other intelligence agencies in the Middle East. Western intelligence organizations have tried to provoke a great deal, he said; they have been partially successful. Look, then, what your President-General Erdoğan says on October 9th: (It is clear that this game is intended to sabotage the process of resolution and our ancient brotherhood.) Your chairman says this: It is clear that he has the intention of sabotaging the solution process.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0152par0100	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0149par0101	Now, we're clearly saying one thing: whoever did this sabotage that day, whoever stood behind these provocations, whoever they were, here they are today, the people who tried to purge HDP from democratic politics, the people who carried out the revenge operation against us, the people who held our friends in prison, the people who arrested them, the trustees, the people who appointed them. Those who make you do this are the ones who stand behind the provocation of that day. Now we ask: Where are the rulers of that time? Diyarbakır, Siirt, Mush, Van, Mardin, Antwerp, Adana, Batman and Bingley's properties, where are they, what are they doing, what are they doing? Do you say that? No one asked or said any of this. Let me put it to you in one last sentence: every life lost is ours. Everyone died a dozen young people. Not only the young, but the older ones are dead. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Sir, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0153par0105	I've given you an extension, Mr. Saruhan. Just finish your words, and I'll take your last. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0149par0107	My last words... salute... Thank you. Every dying person is our life, and their right of life, their property and their safety is sacred to us, and we make no distinction between them. Let me make this clear once again. So let's just say that we're going to discuss this, we're going to continue to demand that the research commission be established, we're going to do it until you agree, because there's an example that's been done in this House. In the 90s, the Unsubstantiated Murders Investigation Commission was established and conducted a very serious investigation and revealed all the facts. And it's very important for us to look into it and find out the facts. I'd like to emphasize that one more time. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0154par0113	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0155par0114	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0154par0115	Mr. President, I have a request for my position.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0155par0116	I'll give you my word on your position.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0154par0119	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have drawn a picture that is as pure as milk, they have nothing to do with these events; they are perfectly legitimate, they have acted for Turkey's future and for its back, as long as they remain in law. Elhak, the listener understands that. The state is guilty, the public officials trying to suppress those incidents, the police are guilty, the martyrs are guilty, but there's only one innocent, the HDP who fueled and organized these events. Mr. President, we have to state that ISIS or DAEŞ are a terrorist organization built in a laboratory. What was the point of that? The purpose of this was to scare the people there, to evacuate a region of Syria, and to leave it to Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). That's what it was built for.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0156par0121	Are you defending ISIS?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0154par0122	If you listen, you'll know what I stand for.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0156par0123	What does that mean? Are you defending ISIS?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0154par0124	To hell with ISIS, the PKK and its supporters. Okay, you got it?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0156par0125	It's ISIS; you're practically doing it.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0157par0127	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0154par0128	Mr. President, it's very uncomfortable when you say PKK.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0156par0129	What you're doing is legitimizing ISIS.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0154par0130	This terrorist organization has led people around here, people in this region, to escape with fear, cruelty. Then...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0156par0131	By speaking like this, you legitimize ISIS.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0158par0132	Mr. Kaya, please, please, Ms. Hüda.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0154par0133	God damn those who support ISIS and ISIS. Are you relieved?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0156par0134	We've seen it, we've seen it, we've seen it, we've seen it!
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0154par0135	Let him suffer a thousand, and let the PKK do so. Take it easy, will you?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0159par0136	Mr. Mush, address the General Assembly, and release Ms. Hüda.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0156par0137	We've all seen what you've done to ISIS!
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0154par0138	Mr. President, how uncomfortable this lady is!
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0156par0139	We all know what you did to ISIS.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0160par0140	Mr. Kaya, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0154par0141	Mr. President, the incident here is that this terrorist organization, along with this fear, is being evacuated north of Syria, where the Turks, Arabs, Kurds, these people are fleeing, leaving their homes. It is the state of the Republic of Turkey, which has struck the biggest blow against ISIS, and the state of the Republic of Turkey, which has caused the greatest loss to come out of the region. I'd like that on the record. Then what happened?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0161par0145	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0154par0146	Then, the extension of the PKK is YPG -- these are the same structures -- there's YPG, there's PJAK on the other side, there's PKK on this side.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0162par0147	And you hosted it a year later, a year later!
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0154par0148	You see, this tyrant, this killer terror organization, defeats DAESS, settles, settles, settles, settles, settles down all the way to Rakka, like the PKK in the eastern part of Fırat. This is a terrorist organization. WHEN DAEŞ attacked Kobani, when he tried to slaughter the people there, who opened his heart and his heart to those people? The state of the Republic of Turkey, we opened it, we opened it. And then, now, they're very uncomfortable with terrorist organizations, because there are 95 percent Arabs living in Münbic, the PKK has held it down, and they're not coming out of there, so, are you showing the same sensitivity? You don't. So, along that line of Turkey, from the east of the Fırat to the end of our border to Şırnak, the Turks, Arabs, Kurds lived, the Kurds displaced those people, the PKK is there now, so why don't you mind him?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0163par0150	Yeah, you're complaining about the public. It is they who are the people of it!
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0164par0152	Last words, last words, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0165par0154	Why don't you bother with them? Let the PKK be there, let the PKK be there.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0166par0155	They're the people, they're not coming from outside!
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0167par0156	Who's gonna be there? Who else but the people of that place?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0166par0157	There's no outsiders coming!
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0168par0158	Mr. Toğrul, Mr. Kaya, please, I beg you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0169par0159	Because there were millions of Arabs living there...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0168par0160	Mr. Kaya, Mr. Toğrul, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0169par0161	Millions of Turkmen were alive, but they took them out of their homeland. Once the PKK's in place...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0168par0163	Look, Mr. Saruhan Oluç, he spoke for more than 20 minutes and no one objected. Don't do it.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0169par0164	The common motive that advocates the ideology of this PKK (PKK) does not make a sound of the HDP acting with them.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0170par0165	He's trying to cover it up here with a crowd of words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0169par0166	As long as there's a PKK there, they can move in there. Well, why don't you have the same sensitivity? The massacres they did to the locals there, the massacres they did against the children, the people they slaughtered there, they entered the United Nations' reports. Who is this organization? PKK terror organization, YPG terrorist organization, they're partners. The slightest regret, the slightest reaction, they won't put it on the stand, but you should know that the purpose of this is to do it in Syria, to do it in Iraq.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0171par0168	Mr. Mush, thank you. Let's open it up, and I'll take your last words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0169par0170	To do it in Turkey. The HDP group is the spokesman for this. These are Turkey's, look, Turkey's... I don't always have this conversation, Mr. President. Please excuse me. This is, look, the PKK's...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0171par0172	Mr. Mush, you always do, no problem.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0169par0173	The PKK's purpose is to make political propaganda and to communicate with HDP (HDP), and they are acting on this purpose.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0172par0174	Whose propaganda are you guys doing? Are you promoting ISIS?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0169par0175	They're constantly doing whatever methods and methods are necessary in this country to cause conflict among 83 million people, to tear people apart, to undermine neighborly relations, relatives.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0172par0176	All you're doing is against the Kurds.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0169par0177	This is what they do in speech, they do in action, they do in pain, they do in joy, they do in law. That's what they do in everything.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0173par0179	All right, thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0169par0180	But just so you know, we didn't let that happen, and we won't let you. And don't forget, just as we disband the DEAS, we will disband the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) from the north of Syria.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0174par0182	Live, exist!
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0173par0183	Here you are, Mr. Saruhan.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0175par0184	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0173par0185	Do you have a position or a request? Your position or no teasing?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0175par0186	Yeah, my place.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0173par0187	You say no teasing, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0175par0189	Now Mr. Mush, we've explained a process here, so let's look into it. I mean, how many years have we been saying, let's investigate. You're the one who ran away from the investigation. Yeah, well, we're not saying that to blame anybody, we're offering data. We say these things have happened. You know, we're showing pictures of your own advocacy media or something. We're offering data on who was killed, and we're talking about how they were killed, and we're saying that we want to look into it. Let's look into it, and we're saying that whatever the results of that Research Commission in Congress are, we're skinning our necks. We've been saying this since day one, but you're avoiding this investigation. Why?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0176par0190	Here, I want the police's name. Which cop shot him?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0175par0191	Secondly, look, Mr. Mush, we'd like to look into it here. You know how you guys call it a lot of legal judgment? Well, I told you, I'll say one case, one case and a half -- one concluded, one unknown -- a case and a half! So many people died, so much looting, destruction, looting, there's no case! Where's the judgment? It's nothing, because you found it easy. Let's take it down on HDP. Let's get rid of it. There's no such thing. It's been six years, and there hasn't been a trial in six years. What you call law, I'll tell you now: the Ankara Chief Prosecutor has launched an investigation. I mean, it's full of lies and wrong things, and I swear it's wrong. Look, Sırrıyya Jefe, then our Speaker of Parliament, then he can't be an executive at a party according to the law. He's got him in custody because he's a member of the CDC. This Attorney General doesn't know that. Pervin Buldan is then our Deputy Group Chairman, not related to MYK.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0177par0194	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0175par0195	Pervin Buldan is a member of MYK, and you're making news that he's going to be prosecuted here and there. It's got nothing to do with MYK. I'll tell you what's worse, a friend of ours who's currently under arrest -- he's under arrest in Sincan Prison -- has a record at the Supreme Court in August 2014. He quit the party, and you arrested him for being a member of the CDC. That's what your D.A.'s law is all about. I mean, you didn't leave any law behind. That's why we say, since there's no law left, let's set up the House Research Commission, take this seriously. Now, look, I said as I spoke, I counted all the people and all the beliefs that lived there when I talked about Northeast Syria; I counted the Arab, Turkmen, Ezidi, Sıryani, Christians, Muslims; I counted the Kurdish, Turkmen, all of them.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0177par0198	I'll take your last words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0178par0199	Why isn't the PKK getting the hell out of there?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0175par0200	Now, Mr. Mush, go over there and ask him; I'm talking about HDP's policies here. We have counted all the different peoples and beliefs, and we want people to live together in peace, and we know that this can happen within the territorial integrity of Syria. In a democratic Syrian regime, different peoples and beliefs there can live together, as long as you don't get your hands mixed up in this way, don't engage in constant interference to change the demographic structure, and that's what Turkey would have to do in those days, just as you brought Salih Müslim to Ankara, if you talked about it, how you could get him to go from here to Europe. What Turkey should do is not be hostile to Kurds living in the region, but what Turkey should do is create the means to make peace with Kurdish people, Turkish people, and all peoples. That's what we're fighting for, and we're sweating for it. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0179par0204	Mr. Oluç, thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Engin Altay, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0180par0210	Thank you, Mr. President, and I salute you and the Grand General Assembly. So I thought I'd ask for a quote from 60, but then I gave it up so we'd save time again, but I'd like to get into my conversation by saying this. There's no need to be afraid of the arguments and arguments here. So it's the right thing for Turkey to talk about these issues here, for our internal peace, for the solution to the Kurdish problem. I never forget that when I was new to politics, when I was a new candidate, while Turkey was fighting terrorism again, Mr. Mehmet Agar called out: "Get off the mountain and do politics on the plain." But Turkey's public and Turkish politics had politically lynched Mr. Agar. At the point where we are now, we can see that there was nothing wrong with what Mehmet Agar had said at the time. I want to come from here: I mean, these kinds of problems -- this kind of macro -- the political institution can't position itself in the face of big problems, based on the public reflex. The political institution has to think big once, think long-term, and once it has to be solution-oriented. You're this close to the terrorist organization so we can do populism and consolidate our base, and I'm this far away. But I'm not denying what I said in the first place; the discussion of this issue in the House will greatly contribute to the solution to the problem. So we need to separate something here, and I've just given an example: within each political party there may be people associated with terrorist organizations, who may even have risen to party leadership at one point or another, just as in the past, the terrorist organization has infiltrated the AK PARTI administration.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0181par0214	Who are they?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0180par0215	But this isn't: you had four ministers, you evacuated them, you got them out of politics, and those who accused them came out of your party. Then someone else from your party... let's not get into that. You and Mr. President have forgiven me. I was wrong and deceived. He said, "If there is an answer to that, we will do it if you want to have a new discussion."
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0181par0216	I will, I will, don't worry.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0180par0217	No, I mean for any party, maybe. It doesn't give birth to this: It doesn't mean that a person or a few people in a political party are connected to a terrorist organization, that they're criminalizing that party. I, for one, am not the HDP's attorney, but I think that every member of parliament who comes here is a patriot, that he loves 83 million and deserves to sit here because he's come with the people's vote. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, I've been promised on behalf of my group on the Presidential Proposal of 3/1323. Today and tomorrow, our House will likely continue to work on a foreign policy-based agenda. A task force, an international task force, was formed in this financial and Central African Republic, under a decision made by the United Nations Security Council on 25/4/2013 under the name MINUSMA and MINUSCA. Well, I didn't get the latest figures, and we don't have a very serious military and police presence in this financial and Central African Republic. But as an honorable, respected, and powerful member of the United Nations family, a number of our police officers are here in Turkey, if I'm not mistaken. We have very few military assets in both countries, a little bit of a vehicle. Now, with this dissertation -- let me see from here to history -- let me not give you any false information -- on the last 8/8/2016, in the last 8/10/2019 of our existence, our supreme Assembly has approved to extend this military and police presence for another year. He's running out of time, and we're going to extend it another year according to the UN General Assembly's decision by the Security Council. I'll tell you this in advance: The Republican People's Party will vote for the two articles we will meet today, and for tomorrow's thesis on Syria and Iraq. Today, I, Mr. Ünal Rioteur, will tell you the reasons for this, including our concerned friend Mr. Riotor, Syria, Iraq. We had a rejection in 2014, for example, in the Syrian Iraqi papers. You know why, dear friends? I've opened that thesis and I've said it ten times, 10 times, the central administration of Syria, the Damascus Regime, the Assad administration. I mean, he was a warrant to the Syrian central administration. We'll get to that, we'll talk about it in time. Now, what will our forces to this Mali and Central Africa do? They were there to ensure stability, to control the ceasefire, to disarm the armed groups, to bring the arms groups, to society, to ensure financial security, the human rights in Mali. They were still there, they'd go again, but they'd have to have a legitimate basis for every business here when we say yes to that. Here, for example, at the point of the deployment of troops and police in Lebanon, the UNIFIL (UNIFIL), which will soon be discussed in Central Africa, is the following: Turkey is a great country, an important and respected member of the family of the nations of the world. The United Nations is the common top organisation of the world nation -- and a decision made here by Turkey -- is now the most legitimate ground and body in the world globally, and we need to do our duty here in this family. So here we come again to the great Ataturk, peace in the land, peace in the world. Tomorrow's thesis will be discussed mainly at Iraq and Syria, where, of course, Turkey faces the threat of terrorism, and we will tell it, Mr. Erdoğan's, if you will say so -- we will pray in the wrong Syrian policies of the President; in the wrong Syrian mosque, which has been going on since 2011." In fact, many of our 13 watch towers in Syria are at risk as a result of a wrong policy that began with an adventure. While they are there, while there is a life threat to them, there is a risk by both central government and by different terrorist organizations, where my Mehmetchik is threatened, the People's Party of the Republic will not be indifferent to it anyway, but there is no hesitation in it, but now there is one thing: since 2013, we have told you that Egypt is important in the Mediterranean, Egypt is my policy of relations with Egypt. Look, it's the world's wolf. No, there's a coupger there. - What was it? Sisi-We don't associate with this coupger. It's appreciation, democracy. Now, I'm very curious, that we want our security elements in the financial community to remain there for another year, but dear friends, there was also a coup on August 18th in Mali. Take care of Allah's work and first, Turkey condemned the coup -- when I say "Turkey," when I say "I'll be there in a few months" -- not that I'm criticizing it, but I'm looking for direct, consistent. Until Turkish foreign policy came to you, there was always a line, a consistency, that could be criticised like that, but there was a consistency. - Now, look, in this picture -- I didn't make a carton of gold -- Mr. Secretary of State, I like him -- and half of those people at the table are soldiers in uniform. Now, what's the point of sending the Foreign Minister to the person who did the coup in Egypt in a month after saying, "I won't be able to deal with it." (CHEERING) Somebody explain this to me. I mean, no, I have no objection to the interests of Turkey if it had to go, Mr. Secretary, but then what was your problem in Egypt? It was there that Mr. Erdogan had an Ihvan approach, so when he said Ihvan, friendship, brotherhood, but in exchange for language, we also have an organization called Ihvan.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0182par0226	Our organization?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0180par0227	So there's an Egyptian organization, not ours. Now, it's costing us a lot that Erdogan did his foreign policy through the love of Ihvan and through his paranoia. Now, for example, Macron, I heard about that today, too. First of all, let me say this in advance, and I'll tell you that everyone in this House will agree, sir smart-ass, that I mean Macron, and I'll tell you that -- dirty, mean! (CHP and AK PARTY) He said: "We will create a enlightened Islam. Who the hell are you? Who the hell are you? People like you have been drugged out of real Islam, which is what we call the jihadist terrorists. I advise Macron: Open up the Qur'an; no killing in the Qur'an, no stealing in the Qur'an, no having a slave, no blood. Those who make it in the name of Islam, under the guise of jihadists, are heretics who have nothing to do with the religion of the West, the imperials, the Qur'an, or the Qur'an, or God. No one has the right or right to illuminate Islam, especially France. But here's my advice to the president of the Diabetes who's busy insulting Ataturk. Why don't you write a letter to Macron in French about what is and what isn't? (Cheers and applause) You can't sleep when the Koran is hungry and the Qur'an is a religion of peace, and the Qur'an commands nothing but goodness, and the Qur'an is hungry.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0183par0229	The President of Religious Affairs needs a letter first.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0180par0230	Sir?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0183par0231	The President of Religion needs a letter first.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0180par0232	That's true, too. Look, dear lawmakers, Erdogan could be your President, the President of this country. I don't know about you, but a member of this House is hurting me as a son of this great nation. Doesn't it hurt you? Of course it hurts. Well, then, let's just look at it this way... if it's our president who's pulling the strings from Biden to Macron, then what's our job as Congress? To condemn them, to pronounce them as common declarations... friends, we will all tell Mr. President here: Mr. President, there will be no foreign policy: there will be no personal and Mr. Putin, my person and Mr. Macron, a relationship between the Republic of Turkey and the United States, a relationship with the Republic of Turkey, a relationship with the Republic of Turkey, a relationship with France with the Republic of Turkey. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, here's the problem: I'd like Mr. Erdoğan to listen to this talk, listen to this chapter: Mr. President, this is the legislature, and you are the executive body. The role and task that the Constitution has drawn for you is clear, its role and its assignment are clear to us. If you take the AK PARTY of Turkey behind you in the Eastern Mediterranean, Iraq, Syria, Sir, Egypt, Libyan relations, the Aegean Islands, not the AK PARTY, but the Turkish Grand National Assembly, all parties -- but not just the AK PARTI, not the Cumhur Alliance -- if you show the world that we are one for the rights and interests of Turkey, they can't insult you, they can't. (HPP clapping in rows) If you make a policy by yourself, the man will target your own person. Look, he doesn't talk to the House, but that goes to the House. Don't do this! Okay, that's your style, you have the authority to run a success story, so let's bring in the group proposals and skip the test subjects, but I'm looking for a success story. Now, Trump is threatening our President about his underhanded assets, covered, open... We, as Congress, should say that we will investigate the assets of our President and of all political party leaders and of all lawmakers, ourselves. Who are you? This perception, at the point of compromises at times, bothers me: Sir, Trump threatened Erdogan with his assets, threatened to collapse; Turkey backed down. Look, I don't claim that. This perception bothers me, and it should bother you. What's the truth, then? Who's Trump? If there's a doubt about our President's assets, if there's a debate about my President's assets, if there's a debate about his assets, let's investigate it as Congress, and the matter will be closed. Now, the Syrian adventure... the Obama tricked us, we dived in 2011, we can't get out. I'm not saying we can't, we haven't done anything. There is an east and a west. What did you say in 2011? We're in Damascus next week. Now, do you know what happened? There's a threat from there, brother, there's a threat from ISIS, there's a PKK/PYD source; there is one. Mr. Secretary, you will speak in a moment, and you have operated with such diverse names in the west of Fırat, and we have martyrs, God bless you. Who controls the west of Fırat? Putin and Assad are judges, right? You can't say it's true. You can't say it's wrong. Sir, once in a while we'll be on patrol.... get on with it. What is east of Fırat? U.S.A. and P.D. What about Turkey? The threat of terrorism, 4 million refugees, 50 billion dollars. Now, there's no success story coming out of here, Mr. Secretary. If we had direct contact with the central government in Syria, at the beginning, with Assad, where he was vacationing... was that vacation in Bodrum?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0184par0238	The basement, the basement.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0180par0239	If it weren't for Obama's gas, if it hadn't been for the priest and the priest, we wouldn't have shed blood in Syria, we wouldn't have shed tears, we wouldn't have lost $50 billion, and we wouldn't be dealing with the social problems of 5 million Syrian refugees in all of Turkey's major cities. You didn't. There's no success story; there's plenty of deception when you look back, and when you look back, I've watched Resurrection Ertuğrul. I've seen Osman, now he's started, and I'm watching him too. I am proud of my history, and we should all be, but we shouldn't have missed Solomon Shah Temple. We should not have turned the flag upside down and disturbed the shrine of Solomon Shah, which, according to all international agreements, is entirely ours. It's not a success story, it's a shame, it's an embarrassment, it's not a skill. Okay. What else happened? So much has happened, I don't want to scratch it. So we lost 34 lives overnight in Idlib, and we didn't ask for the account, just like we did for 20 million dollars in the Blue Marmara. Is 34 lives short, friends? I've been here for 18 years, 19 years, and I don't think there's a congressman's child in the southeast, and I think our rich pay the price, our soldier's from the poor. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'm running out of time, I've got a lot of notes. Azerbaijan... there are Armenians in Turkey, they are Armenians in Turkey, they are Armenians in the Republic of Turkey. I don't have time, there's also a very good assessment that Inspired Aliyev made recently about Armenians, but we can't accept the invasion of Upper Karabuk -- it's about 30 years -- but we can't stand by and watch. When Azerbaijan stands up, we have to jump. This isn't warmongering, friends, there's an invasion there, and we have a brotherhood law with those people. Plane's a plane, tank's a tank, soldier's a soldier. No doubt it is our brothers and sisters who will make this request, but I call from here to the executive branch...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0185par0244	Speak to HDP (HDP) and to HDP (HDP).
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0180par0246	I'm not gonna ask you what to call me! Be decent, be decent! Why do you bother? Does it please you that the Armenians, the state of Armenia, persecuted our Azerbaijan brothers, attacked our Azerbaijan brothers, dropped bombs, shot bullets? Shame on you! [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] At the Azerbaijan point...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0186par0250	You want us to finger the Deputy Director of your Group now?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0187par0251	Guys, time's up. Excuse me.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0188par0252	Who shook their fingers?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0186par0253	You rocked it!
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0187par0254	Mr. Oztunç... Complete, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0189par0256	If a brother's tooth aches in Azerbaijan, we'll have a brain ache here. The position and attitude of the Republican People's Party is so clear. Just as we said not to make concessions for our rights and interests in the Eastern Mediterranean, don't make any concessions for our rights and interests in the Aegean islands, if we say we're behind you, I'm calling for you to move from here, from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to the palace, I say: The Republic of Turkey must not and will not allow anyone to shed a drop of blood in Azerbaijan. (Applause from CHP) The counter is ready for the Republican People's Party. Also, the process is over, Mr. President, and I thank you for your tolerance, and I want to rephrase this: this is Parliament. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] President, one last sentence.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0190par0260	It's okay, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0189par0261	I speak to Mr. President again: If you want to succeed in foreign policy, Turkey to have a high head, open forehead, respectable position in the nation's family of the world, you have to share the Turkish foreign policy with the Turkish Parliament, that's the only and only way. I respectfully salute the General Assembly, sir, by declaring that we will vote in favour of this motion.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0191par0264	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0192par0265	Here, Mr. Mush, do you wish to speak according to 60?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0191par0266	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0193par0267	60 again? I'll let him take it for 60, no hard feelings.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0192par0268	It's not about teasing, it's about 60. I wouldn't give it to them if they asked me not to. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0194par0272	Mr. President, I didn't have a request without taunting me, it could have been there, and I'll tell you that, according to the Civil Code, I have the right. Mr. President, Mr. Altay's assessment of foreign policy is, of course, his own opinion. We also have points of criticism here, but it says here that at the beginning of his speech, he says, "I am not HDP's lawyer." I don't know if you're his lawyer or not, but don't marginalise this, here. There may be terrorists involved in the party's leadership at every party; the EC has infiltrated the PARTI administration. Now, Mr. Altay, you have claimed that the AK PARTI administration has been infiltrated by a group of people. Tell us, who are the leaders of the administration who infiltrated the AK PARTY administration? So, don't say anything to HDP. We can't possibly accept a claim as if you had it. Oh, if it's about that, look, I've got it, we'll print a book.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0195par0276	Let's turn on the mike.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0194par0277	If we print these, there'll be a book.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0196par0278	It'll be our encyclopedia, our Square Larousse.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0194par0279	The evidence that CHP is employed by its own vice president to overthrow the AK PARTY is also expressed by your own vice presidents.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0196par0280	Erdogan told me, brother.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0194par0281	So what did the President say, and what did you do? If a building broke the law and started committing crimes, it's gonna pay for that crime now, but after you started committing a crime, you went arm in arm with it; it's that simple. Sir, first it was like this, then it was like this... Well, Mr. Altay, put your hand on your conscience -- you're talking about conscience, morality, objectiveity -- and we're fighting this, so why didn't you take the position against it?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0196par0283	What didn't we get?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0194par0284	Why didn't you say, when we were fighting the government of the Republic of Turkey, why didn't you come out and fight the government? Why couldn't you say? Why did you keep watch in front of the canals when the canals were being shut down? Now, therefore, dear friends, we don't accept what you're saying by ignoring these things without knowing them.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0197par0286	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0194par0287	The other thing is, there's the Ihvanists, we have a conversation about them, something else is being said. For one thing, look, come to us after the status of the Ihvanists, their positions, their activities, and your words. So if you were to explore the other structures as much as you praised Hafter, you wouldn't actually give us these conversations. We'd be happy to have you here with Azerbaijan, but look, Mr. Altay's had this custom of late, so whoever's making a noise, they're going to go out on a limb. Mr. Altay, please inform your Vice President of Foreign Policy before you report to our MP.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0198par0291	He'll talk soon, he'll talk.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0194par0292	Because -- he'll talk -- first, give him a call, and then you can criticize our MP, and we say, "Look, Engin Altay is a very objective man, he's a very objective man, he tells his own Vice President, the Deputy President of Foreign Policy of the CHP.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0199par0294	Former Vice President. Let's turn on the microphone; let me get your last words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0194par0296	This man, the London Embassy, did the Baku Embassy. What did he say? With jihadists, the mercenaries were being transferred to Turkey, where Turkey was sending weapons.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0200par0297	He'll answer any minute, answer any one of them.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0194par0298	Well, you guys can't say anything to a congressman of ours here unless you kick his ass.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0200par0299	Did you put Trump to shame? Have you reported it to Trump?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0194par0300	Then you won't have it. I'm sorry, we'll ban you from this place.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0201par0301	I don't want to pick on you. I want to talk about the bench, sir.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0202par0302	What did he say, sir?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0201par0303	He accused Hafter of supporting him, accusing him of taking care of him.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0202par0304	Here you go. Guys, excuse me, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0201par0308	Thank you. If we settle here, I'll agree with you. Until then, the February 7th crisis of MIT, many AK PARTY executives had a picture of Fethullah Gulen at the bottom of the knee. Now, there are four types of AK PARTI, dear friends. Some of them were separated on February 7th, some of them were separated until February 7th -- the MIT crisis, remember 2012 -- until December 17, 25th -- and then there were people who were separated, and then there were AK PARTİ, who were separated from the region -- all of them -- after all of them -- but half of them were eliminated -- but half of them were left here -- there were four ministers' heads, but half of them were gone again, and then there were a large mass of people who were separated from the. Which one should we fight? (CHEERING) Which one should we fight? As for Hafter, two deals have come to this assembly. What was one? Agreement between the Turkish Republic's government and the Libyan State's National Covenant Government on the Limiting of Sea Authority Areas in the Mediterranean, the Special Economic Area Agreement. What did we vote for? Yes we did, yes we did. Hafter and Serrac. Hafter is the head of the government of Moab, and Serrac Tripoli. Now that you say Serrac, Serrac, Serrac, Serrac, Serrac makes deals without shaking you, he will deliver the commission to others, perhaps to Hafter. What are you going to do, break up with Libya?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0203par0313	You don't understand what I'm saying.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0201par0314	Serrac quits, leaves it in October. Brother, we say we didn't give Libya a military intervention, do you know why? Libya is one of the three countries that helped us in the Cyprus War, Azerbaijan, Pakistan, Libya. Brothers are fighting in a land that is our ancient friend, and Turkey is not a party, not a brother, not a brother, not a brother, not a sister. We said, "Let him embrace the brothers." You even used that against him. What more can I say to you?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0203par0315	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0204par0316	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0203par0319	Well, Mr. President, I say to Mr. Altay, if you were to investigate the other structures as much as you've described Hafter, you wouldn't do those criticisms. You supported the week. We didn't say that they misunderstood what I told you. Mr. President, here's the other thing: we've seen another Engin Altay classic.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0204par0322	Friends, sir, excuse me.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0203par0323	Mr. President, can you turn on the microphone?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0204par0324	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0203par0325	Mr. President, we've just seen an Engin Altay classic. Sir, after the MIT crisis, this is what happened after 17-25. Look, while we were struggling with this, the CHP administration became a GERP.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0205par0326	Shame on you!
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0203par0327	You stood next to him. [[It's a shame to hear it in CHP rows!]] It's a shame, it's a shame. Look, the Vice President is giving an example, and he says, "Ya, right, I admit it." In the local elections, we acted together to overthrow this AK PARTY with parallel structure.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0206par0331	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0203par0332	Your own Vice President told me the name, and we have a lot of names.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0207par0333	Damn what happened yesterday and today with the parallel structure!
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0206par0334	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0208par0335	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0206par0336	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0208par0338	Thank you. To avoid any misunderstandings again... yes, I stand by what I say, and if it's wrong, I'm one of those people who knows how to say, "I was wrong." Now, let Mehmet Mush look at the reports, see if he can find a word I said against Serrac, or against Hafter, and that's it. Sir, you can see Hafter, Serrac Jihadist, Ihvanist. I said, what's wrong with that? Again, I repeat.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0209par0341	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0208par0342	I'm not finished, Mr. President. Serrac's leaving tomorrow. Now, I was wondering, what if Serrac is Libyan and Hafter is from somewhere else? If Hafter takes over tomorrow, what kind of foreign policy is that of the Libyan administration -- the United Nations approved the agreement, the agreement we made here together? I've said something here, there's no policy of character and Libya, there's no Erdogan-Serrac relationship; there's a Turkey-Libia relationship, that's the truth.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit03spe0209par0345	I'm taking a thirty-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0209par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 2nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. (3/1323) We continue the talks of the main presidential counter. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Ismet Yilmaz. Please...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0210par0009	Mr. President, there's no one, not with our Minister, who will address 10 people, so let's wait and let the people come and talk.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0211par0010	They come, they come.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0210par0011	We'll benefit, we'll find out.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0212par0012	Mr. Tanal, if you'll excuse me, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0210par0013	You're in charge, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0213par0014	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have made a commitment to explain the opinion of the AK PARTI Group as to the actions and missions carried out by the United Nations in the Financial and Central African Republic, in order to send the Turkish Armed Forces abroad and to be used by our President on the basis of the principles and the basis to be established by the President, under Article 92/10/2020, for a year's notice. I hereby salute the members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. President, the first of the missions that make up the subject of the thesis is the UN Security Council's decision dated 25 April 2013, 2100, and the United Nations Multi-dimensional Integrated Stability Mission MINUSMA. The mission was created to support and contribute to the country's political process and to ensure security after the financial situation deteriorated in 2013. The main tasks under MINUSMA have been defined as maintaining stability in the country, supporting, monitoring and monitoring the ceasefire process, implementing the road map of the peace process, providing support for the national, political dialogue process, protecting UN personnel and civilians, securing human rights, supporting the protection of cultural entities. In view of the needs that have arisen during this mission process, the fundamental tasks of the mission have been expanded by tasting the United Nations Security Council's decree dated 29 June 2020 and by tasting its 2531 decree, and by supporting the disarming of armed groups and reinstitution of arms groups, by harmonising international contributions to the reconstruction of financial security and the protection of women in all areas and on all levels, and the protection of children. Mr. President, the second mission, which constitutes the subject of the thesis, is the multi-dimensional Stabilisation Mission, established on June 10, 2014 by the United Nations Security Council's Decision 2149, established by the United Nations Central African Republic. The mission was created by the rise of violence in the Central African Republic, ethnic and religious conflicts in 2013, and by the decline of security and human condition in this country. Its main goal is to identify and register threats to civilians in the growing environment of conflict and violence in the Central African Republic, to contribute to the functioning of political life and the establishment of state authority in the country in the transition process, to preserve the country's territorial integrity, to facilitate the delivery of humanitarian aid, to protect the United Nations personnel, to protect human rights and promote human rights, disarming and return to the country, and to support the efforts to reform the security facility in the Central African Republic. The mission, again, has also been changed in the mission directive of the United Nations Security Council, dated 15/11/2019 and 2499. The mandates of MINUSMA and MINUSCA are extended by the United Nations Security Council for a period of time. The mandate of MINUSMA was extended to 2531 of the United Nations Security Council until June 30, 2021, while the mandate of MINUSCA was extended to the 15/11/202020 of the United Nations Security Council's Resolution 2019, and 2499 of the United Nations Security Council. The United Nations has called for accession to the missions in question. In addition, at the Peacekeeping Summit held during the 70th General Assembly talks, our country was specifically asked to contribute to the UN missions. The military contribution to the solution of human and political crises that pose a threat to regional stability and peace in Africa is an application of our active foreign policy in the region and in the African continent. Mr. President, lawmakers, Mali, who staged a new military coup in August of last August, has had a negative impact on the continental security beyond the Sahara-Sahel region since March 2012. The activities of various groups in the northern part of the financial region, including riots, military coups, terrorist groups, have led to destabilisation of Mali (Fali) and Sub-Saharan Africa (Saharan Africa). In recent years, the terrorist attacks on security forces and MINUSMA have been concentrated, and the public conflicts have increased. In May 2019, the United Nations Security Council demanded that the security situation in Mali (Mali) and the threat of terrorism in the Sahel region be implemented without further delay by the Peace and Compromise Agreement signed by opposition groups in 2015. The United Nations Security Council again announced in August 2019 that the situation in the financial community poses a threat to international peace and security in the region. Mr. President, members of parliament, this year's parliamentary elections were held in the late March and April of the year, at a very low level. The head of the main opposition party was kidnapped during the election campaign, and the Constitutional Court has contested the final results, demanding the president's resignation. In June, the loss of life in demonstrations in the country, particularly Bamako, increased tension, and on August 18th, a group of soldiers from the Mali Armed Forces took over the country in a coup. The president also announced that he resigned on August 19th and that he had annulled Parliament and the government. Mr. President, as lawmakers, as Turkey, we have announced that the constitutional order of financial peace, confidence and stability of domestic peace would quickly be restored, that the international community's efforts would be supported for this purpose, and that we would be on the side of the people of Mali during this difficult period. He was appointed civilian president on September 21st and civilian Prime Minister on September 25th. It is considered that the contribution to the MINUSMA mission by our country would be a positive contribution to our country's appearance on the continent so that it can be fulfilled during the extended mandate of MINUSMA. Mr. President, lawmakers, the activities of the United Nations mission in the Central African Republic are important to the region and the international community. On March 23, 2013, in the Central African Republic, instability began with the overthrow of the president of the period, causing a significant part of the Muslim population, which constitutes 15 per cent of the civil war between Muslim and Christian groups, to take refuge in the surrounding countries. On negative developments in the country, the United Nations Security Council set up MISCA (in December 2013) and asked the French troops in the country to support this mission, and then the mandates of MISCA (MISCA) were transferred to the multidimensional Integrated Stabilisation Mission of the Central Nations Republic of Africa in September 2014. On July 24, 2014, a ceasefire agreement was signed between Muslim and Christian groups, but the attacks aimed at bilateral conflicts and international troops did not stop. As a result of efforts to restore democracy in the country, the presidential and parliamentary elections were held in March 2016. Former Prime Minister Faustin Touadera was elected President. The Bangui Peace Agreement, signed in February 2019 with the participation of the government and 14 armed groups in the country, is a turning point. In the country, the humanitarian crisis has become heavy, one of the four citizens of the Central African Republic has left their homes, 68,000 people have been displaced within the country, 568 thousand have taken refuge in neighbouring countries. It has been considered that contributing to the MINUSCA mission by our country would be a positive contribution to our country's appearance on the continent, so that it can carry out its mission during the extended mandate. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, as a responsible member of the international community, our country continues to contribute effectively to the development of the United Nations from peacekeeping, climate change to the UN Security Council reform work. Turkey has built the foundations of its security policy on co-operation and partnership policy. In this framework, we defend the principle of maintaining the country's territorial integrity in order to preserve international peace and stability. In this framework, we contribute to tasks such as collective defence, crisis management, peacekeeping and humanitarian aid. Mr. President, lawmakers, one of the leading indicators of visibility in the United Nations system is that it contributes to international peace and stability. Our participation in peace-supporting and protection operations also helps boost our international policy activity. Our country contributes to many UN peacekeeping missions deployed throughout the world. Turkey is also contributing to NATO and the European Union's peacekeeping operations in various parts of the world, including Afghanistan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, other than the UN's direct operations. Mr. President, our African partnership policy includes supporting political, economic and social development on the continent for the establishment of peace and stability, and pro bono assistance in the areas of humanitarian aid, restructuring, security, diplomacy and mediation. In addition, bilateral agreements include military training and military aid to continents, and military personnel from African countries are invited to participate in courses and training activities carried out in Turkey. Our country, an African-Avrusian country, is a strategic priority for our country to be in the region in harmony with the facts of the 21st century. The country's approach to promoting peace is also consistent with the country's approach to the solution of human and political crises that pose a threat to regional stability and peace in Africa. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are demanding that the territorial integrity of Turkey, Mali and the Central African Republic be maintained, that national unity be achieved, that national reconciliation efforts be successfully concluded, that political stability and sustainable economic development be restored to democratic order. The end of the conflict environment in the Mali and Central African Republic is of great importance. Destabilisation in this region opens space for terrorist organizations in the Sahara-Sahel region. The contributions to MINUSMA in finance and MINUSCA forces in Central Africa will also strengthen the country's fight against terrorist organisations. Therefore, permissions have been granted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in accordance with Article 92 of the Constitution to ensure our contribution starting on August 2, 2016. Mr. President, some of the speakers here have said that we do not want Turkey to compromise either in Cyprus or in the Eastern Mediterranean. Turkey is making no concessions in the Mediterranean, in the Eastern Mediterranean, or in Cyprus. Since it is not so, the European Union says you are violating the rights of Cyprus in Cyprus, and you are violating the rights of Greece in the Eastern Mediterranean. If they had considered international law, they would have known that what Turkey did in Cyprus was to protect the rights of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and that what was done in the Eastern Mediterranean was to protect Turkey's rights. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, one of the most valuable MPs here is one of the speakers, so there are often objections to the foreign policy of the EC PARTY, but we always expect that it is one thing to be politically opposed to the EC PARTY; it is another thing to be opposed to the policies of government, nation's national sensibilities. The state and nation of the Republic of Turkey have a national stance on the Azerbaijan issue, the Cyprus issue, on the Palestinian issue. In the matter of Cyprus, Azerbaijan and Palestine, there's an entirely different place in the state tradition, each one of which is a national case. It is not for a Turkish politician to look at Turkey-Azerbaijan relationship as an external eye, so to speak, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact,
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0214par0029	But, Mr. Secretary, you want us to...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0213par0030	I'll also say thank you for the support here.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0214par0031	Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0213par0032	What we expect is that, a hundred years ago, against the founders of this country and the leaders of the parties, as His Holiness Said Nursi said, I would not strike Enver ▪ the Minister of the War, and Said Halim, who was Sadrazam along with Venizelos. Those who strike me are also miserable. As he said, we, along with Pashinyan, will not say a word against Ibrahim Aliyev, Macron, Recep Tayyip Erdogan. In my way, the one who tells is miserable. We must be able to say it. We fight within ourselves, but we must show to one and seven heifers that we are together in national matters, and that the rest of the country in question is the rest of the country. That's what our nation expects of us. Mr. President, there are serious charges against each other in the United States, between Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic Party President of the United States and President of the United States Republican Party Trump, and Nancy Pelosi, the Republican President, was the leading candidate to dismiss Trump. Nancy Pelosi visited France last year, French journalists asked her about Trump, and Nancy Pelosi asked her about the president of my country when she was outside the country, and she said, "You can't make me talk." We ask the opposition, not much, to show the sensitivity of Pelosi. Turkey is one with 80 million people; together we are Turkey. In this country, no citizen has any advantage over another citizen. The title of this country is equal to 83 million shares. At this point, any segregated language, any poisonous language is a language that must be rejected. We don't have to discriminate in this country, we have to form unification, containment as a common expression. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been told about the Libyan resolution again, but we used the Libyan thesis: We have argued from the beginning that there is no military solution to the Libyan problem; that its current problems could be resolved permanently with the participation of the United Nations, with the participation of all Libyans, with a political process that will be conducted by Libyans in person. The fates of the brothers and sisters that clash in Libya today are common, and they will build a common future together; the primary duty of Turkey is to bring together these brothers and sisters to show that peace will not be lost. We say that the main purpose of this thesis is to contribute to a ceasefire and stability. The passing time justified what we said that day. We said at the time that even the mention of this thesis was enough to give a different atmosphere in the region. Supporters of the illegitimate forces that have tried to take Tripoli have now expressed that a political solution in Libya is essential, and now everyone says so. When we were sent to this thesis, we said it was one of the positive results of this genius. Therefore, we know that you are defending the rights and interests of Turkey in the Eastern Mediterranean, but know that all agreements made in this foreign policy are aimed at protecting these rights and interests. Mr. President, members of parliament, another friend of ours has said a few words about this Song of Solomon Shah, and I'd like to say that in this past period, for God's sake, Turkey has experienced the experience of the Musul Chief Consulsal staff, the hostage of the DEAS terrorist organization. Every event needs to be evaluated under its circumstances, period. The saintly nation also remembers that when members of the DEAS terrorist organization invaded the consulate of Mosul and took their staff hostage, the consulate was not evacuated before? On that day, those who made that accusation were emptied of the station for the day. We said that they shouldn't say. On that day at the consulate of Mosul, necessary measures were not taken in the matter of our citizens being taken hostage. We said, "Why were the personnel at Süleyman Shah Station taken to this day for the safety of their lives?," we said. This is the beloved nation, the Foreign Minister, the Secretary of State, the Undersecretary of State, the Undersecretary of MIT and the General Staff 2. He also remembers the debate between the president and his security meeting on listening to and serving outside forces. On that day, the State remembers those who said that they would go to war in Syria on the basis of Solomon Shah Station. And We made clear to them on that day that their allegations were in vain. My dear brothers and sisters, we've done nothing but protect this nation's rights, its law, its interests over the course of time. But today, even the Prime Minister of Armenia, if you don't stop the Turks, he will follow us to Vienna. If he says so, then Turkey will succeed. My dear friends, Turkey, no doubt, today is stronger than yesterday. He's determined to uphold his fellow man's rights, his law. You said so yourself, we want the full support of all members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, all of them. The longer we have your support, the stronger Turkey becomes. So, I say, let's all strengthen Turkey and thank the People's Party and the People's Republican People's Party in your presence for publicly expressing support for this thesis. There's a Turkey, and tomorrow of that Turkey, hopefully, together, we'll make it stronger, brighter, and we'll leave our children a stronger Turkey, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0215par0040	First word for the individuals, Mr. Yunus Emre. Here you go, Mr. Emre.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0216par0043	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. At the beginning of my words, I once again condemn the attacks on civilians in Azerbaijan by Armenia, which has invaded the land of Azerbaijan, for violating international law. This is a war crime. I wish our martyr brothers mercy. I want to repeat with all our heart that we are with the Azerbaijan people. My dear friends, today and tomorrow our General Assembly will discuss the thesis. We also have a very comprehensive problem, the problem of getting away from the democracy facing Turkey and, of course, the influence of parliament in foreign policy, the decline of its capacity, as well as a small example of these arguments. So, in the process of making decisions of Turkish foreign policy, we need to ask a very fundamental question in the implementation process: what are the rights of state organs in this area, what are their powers in the field of foreign policy, what are they facing each other? It's actually a matter of fundamental management and the powers of law, foreign policy, and what I'm about to explain in this field at the very beginning is that there is no procedure based on rules, and unfortunately, we're dealing with a process that is far from institutionalization. Now, my dear friends, look, I want to explain to you why this dissertation with some examples is really about the decline of the Parliament's power, the withdrawal of Turkey from democracy. Look, I've got this Mali and the Central African Republic paper. Before that, when these statements came to parliament, you know, they were coming through the prime minister's office and they were coming with the signatures of members of the Council of Ministers. Now, all the papers are coming with the President's signature. For one thing, we're going through a period when a delegation, a committee, has been cut off from the decision of a board, and one person, a single person, has decided to start this process. My dear friends, this is a very important issue: This is a parliamentary decision on its name, and the Constitutional Court does not make a judicial audit on the decisions of the Assembly, as it was made in 1990. I mean, I don't look at parliamentary decisions, except in the process of reducing parliament's Rights and parliamentary power. The Constitutional Court says. This is important for us, because the House needs to take these decisions very seriously because we're making decisions that are closed, friends. I mean, there's a very important situation with these decision-making, these thesis, these parliamentary decisions. For what it's worth, I'm telling you, unfortunately, you're protecting the applications of the parliamentary system as if there were a parliamentary system, not fulfilling the requirements of transition into the presidential system in many democratic countries. Look, there's a statement in all the papers that says: "Hudut, the number, the amount and the time of the armed forces being sent to be appreciated and identified by the President." In no democratic country in the world, friends, such authority is granted. In no democratic country, a head of state is given a mandate to be left to his own discretion by border, number, number, and time; it will only be under authoritarian rule, which you will not encounter in a democratic country. My dear friends, these matters need to be handled on very different platforms. Look, there are already Turkish soldiers in 13 different countries. What is the purpose of sending these soldiers as Turkey, and how much have we achieved in discussing them here again a year later? I assure you, there's not a single explanation for this in either of these rhetorical texts or any of the talks made by the power spokesman here. My dear friends, we're talking about something very basic. Mehmet-chik, we're sending young citizens of our country to different countries. These citizens, Mehmet-chiks, are very valuable to us. It can't happen in any democratic country, my friends, leaving its border with a two-line piece of writing, to the pleasure of the President. I also need to remind you that the influence of the House in foreign policy, the power of the House, can be valid by the very effective work of its commissions in this area. Of course, there's no requirement in the Civil Charter to assess the decisions on the commission, but I've studied them before I got here, and there are such traditions in many countries: the relevant commissions of the Assembly, let's say the National Defence Commission, the Foreign Commission -- that we have -- commissions like the European Union's Integration Commission -- can actually form mixed commissions, they can put them on the table, they can invite people from foreign missions, they can invite people from foreign missions. I want to rephrase: We have soldiers in 13 different countries; in the history of the republic there have never been as many troops abroad as in this period; in no time have there been so many Mehmetchiks abroad. We're dealing with a situation like this, and we're not taking it effectively. I want to rephrase: As parliament, we're making a decision without judicial supervision -- it's a very basic, important decision -- but we're not looking at it, rather than having serious debates about it, we're being given a series of speeches here, and we're being drawn up some pink paintings in terms of Turkey's foreign policy, but unfortunately the reality is very far away from it, dear friends. I also need to remind you that if you are imitating the presidential system, one of the most well-known examples of the presidential system is that there is a law in the United States in 1986, called the Code of Goldwater Nichols. Now, according to this law, the American government provides a document to the community and parliament, a national security strategy document. My dear friends, according to this document, what are the national goals of that country, what means, what means do they have to reach them, and they are open to transparent social, political debate. They don't exist in Turkey, folks. There was once a document called the National Security Policy Document, which, of course, was closed to public debate, we don't know if there is a secret text, but if we defend democracy, if we defend modern norms, if we defend modern norms, then this Congress should be able to effectively discuss what the objectives of the foreign policy run by power are here. We face a situation where this is not happening: One day a country is presented as Turkey's closest ally, as its closest friend; a few days later, the same country becomes Turkey's most important enemy, its enemy. Unfortunately, the speakers before me also reminded us that 34 lives have been martyred in Syria, followed by our representatives of the government who were thought to have done this to the country that they are running and being held at the door for a long time. Today, our television stations give Pachinyan's phone call to Putin. A phone call that Pashinyan scolded and hung up on the phone. For God's sake, what's the difference between this and the government's treatment that's going from here to Moscow? That's what I want to ask, what's the difference? And since we as Parliament cannot answer for them, since there is no influence on the foreign policy in Turkey, nor on the budget debates, I'd like to rephrase that authority -- since they can come to the agenda -- we're giving it to this dissertation with the President's signature, leaving it to the President's discretion, limit, amount, and time. Again, this is the president's proposal, not the recommendation of a board, a committee, the Council of Ministers. My dear friends, I've just expressed that transparency, accountability are very fundamental to us, and the current process is far from that. The government is making extremely arbitrary foreign policy decisions, and Parliament is not able to process them or bring them up for discussion. I must remind you, my dear friends, that there is no such function in the democratic examples of the presidential system you've brought up so many times. I've just explained that the House makes separate laws on foreign policy, creates separate commissions, is called the approval of the Parliament's relevant wing, or rather the relevant commission, in critical appointments. None of this exists in Turkey, my dear friends.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0217par0053	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0216par0054	I am, Mr. President. Unfortunately, Turkey has a completely arbitrary foreign policy application, and unfortunately you're ignoring our attempts to change it. We, the Republican People's Party, are not only a party that just explains problems, but we also offer suggestions on how to solve these problems that Turkey faces, and you do not take advantage of them. You're approaching foreign policy from a point where you're basically going to be in power, to help you be in power. The demands of different nations and our nation in the region, not the needs of peace and peace in the region, are, unfortunately, the main objective in your foreign policy. The main goal is that the power in Turkey, the power of Erdogan, must not be effectively debated in parliament, to be able to continue, unfortunately. Unfortunately, I've explained it on these platforms, I've explained it over and over again, but there's no chance of any change.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0217par0057	I'm going to open your last sentences.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0216par0058	I am, Mr. President. I want to rephrase: We, of course, take Turkey out of this darkness, when a democratic environment begins again, when we return to the strengthened parliamentary administration, we will change all that. I'm going to close with one last example: look, friends, strong councils don't come into the business of great powers. Without the parliamentary system in Turkey, the March 1st would have passed through this Parliament, and hundreds of thousands of Iraqi Muslims would have had the blood of our country, unfortunately.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0218par0061	Mr. Emre, let's say hello, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0216par0062	It is the resources of the parliamentary system that prevented it at that time in Turkey.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0218par0064	Thank you. The request for a second word on behalf of Mr. Halis Dalklıç. Here you are, Mr. Dalkilic.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0219par0068	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I ask that our new legislature bring blessings to our Veteran Assembly, our nation, our country, and I salute your delegation with respect and respect. I'd like to say hello to two people at the beginning of my words. First, for the peace and security of our nation, I salute and honor our security forces, our soldiers, our police, who are fighting terrorism in and out of the country, both in and out of borders, in and out of the country, in a brutal struggle to ensure the peace of our country. I send greetings from the House, from the Veterans' Council, from the nation's stand, to the children of the nation. Secondly, I really congratulate our health workers in the Covid-19 period of the world, on their struggles to combat these bitter, brutal battles, and we send our greetings, our compliments, our respects, from the High Assembly. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, we offer the approval of our Veteran Assembly to extend the mandate of our soldier who served as part of the temporary task force of the United Nations in Mali and Central African Republic until 31 October 2021. In this context, I have made a promise to share my thoughts. Congressmans, every day in Africa, a gazelle wakes up every morning, waking up conscious of running faster than the fastest running lion, or he knows he's going to be eaten and he's going to die. Again, in Africa, a lion wakes up, conscious of the need to run faster than the slowest gazelle, knowing that he will starve. So it doesn't matter if you're a gazelle or a lion in Africa. You must never forget to run faster at sunrise. This is the saying of Thomas Friedman, the famous writer, as if he were summing up the history of the Black continent. The latest news from the financial community has brought us back to the agenda of Africa, which is remembered by colonies and coups. In finance and Africa, especially in Central Africa, when France invaded Algeria in 1830, the fate of Africa, along with its bloody occupation, has not changed today, unfortunately. Here we see the same France occupying and exploiting an area of 11.5 million square miles in the 1670s, when we come to the 1920s. Of course, France, which exploits the resources of all Africa for two centuries and maintains assimilation policies there, and especially exploits the resources of its resources in Mali, continues today to become an apostle of democracy to the world. Although Mali gained independence in 1959, France has imposed three issues as a condition of withdrawing the colony from Mali and Africa. One is that the official language will be French; the second, education will be given in French; and the third, they will declare it a valid currency in every country in Africa, France, which they have removed from circulation. So when we look from here, we see France's colony in the region continuing. Every year, 500-550 billion dollars are coming from Africa to France, French treasure officials announced. So I wanted to reveal once again what France had done to Africa and bring it before our Parliament. France, which has exploited Africa for centuries, has seen important hydrocarbon reserves in the Eastern Mediterranean, and has discovered that it has been discovered in 2010, while Greece, with the Greek Cypriot administration, with Egypt, with its alliance with the United Arab Emirates, has begun to adopt a policy that excludes Turkey and the Turkish Cypriots in the region. On the one hand, the Greek and Greek administration's support for the macrosimist national thesis, on the other hand, is the most important indicator of France's dangerous politics, when it opposes Turkey, which supports Libya's legitimate government under the UN's decisions and at its request. The traffic of French President Macron, who described the Eastern Mediterranean as a red line, and the statements of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan targeting Turkey in person are the most important indicator of fueling the fire. A country without a beach in the eastern Mediterranean has sparked the danger in the region by provoking Athens, encouraging Greece to use military spending, and even by taking the opportunity to sell 18 Rafale-type fighter planes to Greece. Members of parliament, on the one hand, Macron flirts with Libya, Egypt, on the one hand, the Greek Cypriot, on the other side, Greece every day and makes new statements daily. They're looking for explanations that will stretch the area, destabilize the region, and keep their colonies going. From the Minsk trio, we see that France is not worried about Azerbaijan territory. His solidarity with Armenia means that the Armenians support the invasion of Karabakh for thirty years. They are blind, deaf and dumb to Armenia's ancient Azerbaijan territory, the invasion of Karabagan, and the massacres of civilians. Turkey and Azerbaijan are two brothers. Our country has always supported the national integrity of Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan), its independence, and it has been there for him, and it will continue to be there. We call out to our fellow Azerbaijan brothers, that we are two nations, one nation, and the world must know that we are one nation. Imagine the land of Karabağ Azerbaijan, a language blaming our Azerbaijan brothers, who defend their homeland in their own land! There is no one to speak to the occupied Armenia, nor to warn them. We say that Turkey, with Allah's permission, will be able to break this dirty plot and the dirty game. Since 2002, the AK PARTY government has been the hope of all oppressed geography, as well as the patrons of the oppressed and the loud voice of the oppressed, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As the EC PARTI family, we struggle to establish stability, peace, brotherhood in all parts of the world, especially our close geography. And with that dignity, we cannot be defeated, we cannot be defeated, we are your ruler, we are the owners of the world, we are our resources. The rulers who say, "The world is greater than 5 ▪ looking into their eyes in the United Nations, in their homes; these atrocities cannot be sustained." This is why the nation's son Recep Tayyip Erdogan's objection is rising. They want Recep Tayyip Erdogan to shut up, so that Turkey can kneel down and get all the resources of the world and maintain its sovereignty in the world. There's no more, there's Turkey. Dear brothers and sisters, esteemed MPs, we are 83 million brothers and we must oppose this colonial order of the world. In this regard, Turkey must stand, have to survive, have to walk to its goals in unity and unity. The sons of this beloved nation, the sons of this 100-year-old Republic history and a thousand-year-old state tradition, need to know what conditions we're fighting on, on what terms we're fighting on. Mr. Engin Altay just said he'd support the thesis in his speech. We want you to really support everything in foreign policy, be with us in foreign policy. Or do you really want to get up in foreign politics and...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0220par0087	You're screwing up in foreign policy, you're screwing up.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0219par0088	...talking like the ambassador to Ermenistan, I don't suppose it's your own conversation. I don't think slandering Turkey is a conversation that you would have had, because I don't think a dirty, dirty, slandering Turkey, slandering Turkey would fit in the tradition of an 80-year-old party. Also, look, there's been a lot of criticism about Covid. Dear friends, don't be unfair, call our health workers and health infrastructure, which the world is so envious of, and you should be proud.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0221par0090	Is that why you didn't pay the paramedics?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0222par0091	Is that why you're shutting down the Turkish Medical Corps? Is that why you're shutting it down?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0219par0092	Look, if your horizons are just opening new cards for the sake of health...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0223par0093	All screaming friends please shout with masks.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0219par0094	If you're actually offering me a new piece of cards in the medical field, we have nothing to say. I think there's got to be something more serious.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0223par0097	Yes, complete, Mr. Dalkulic. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0219par0099	Look, dear friends, let Parliament bear witness that we will continue to fight the world's allies. Let Parliament bear witness. Let this date bear witness, as the children of this holy nation, we shall continue to hear the voice of the oppressed, and to preach the voice of the oppressed, and to stand before the oppressors. In this regard, we ask that when we are making opposition, do not confuse opposition to the EC PARTY with opposition to the country; then opposition to the country is perceived as treason. Please, you can oppose the AK PARTY, but when it comes to the interests of the country, I say act together as one, not the object of politics, but the duty of unity and unity and the duty of history. I wish you all the best for this dissertation. We advocate stability in both the financial and the nearby geography of the world. We don't have any black spots in the past. We are the children of a civilization of mercy, we have brought compassion, goodness and brotherhood everywhere we go, and we will continue to take them, and I salute the High Assembly with respect and respect, and I wish good work.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0223par0102	Congressmans, talks have been completed on the Presidential Proposal. I will now submit the thesis to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, according to the decision taken, we will begin negotiations with the main presidential countermeasure (3/1325). Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As part of the UN Security Council's 1701/8/2006 decision (2006) and Turkish Parliament's 5/9/2006 decision for a year, Turkey has contributed to the United Nations Temporary Task Force (UNIFIL) in Lebanon with the elements of the Armed Forces. The deadline for this permit has been extended one year since 31/10/2019, dated 22/10/2019 by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. With its contribution to UNIFIL, Turkey has taken an important role in carrying out an effective implementation of the peacekeeping operation. Turkey's contribution in this framework has served to increase its visibility within the United Nations system, on both the regional and global scale, and through comprehensive civil-military co-operation activities, and to maintain its policy to maintain peace and stability. It is considered important to continue our contribution to UNIFIL. UNIFIL's mandate has been extended to 31/8/2021, dated 28/8/2020 by the United Nations Security Council and reached 2539 (2020). In light of these issues and in light of our bilateral relations with Lebanon and the security conditions in the region, under UNIFIL's decision 2539 (2020) to extend UNIFIL's mandate, I submit the necessary provisions of Turkish Armed Forces, which will be determined by the President of the Constitution, under the United Nations Security Council's Decision 1701 (2006) and the principles determined by the Supreme Assembly of Turkey's Council of Turkey, to participate in UNIFIL for another year, and to make the necessary arrangements to be made by the President of UNIFIL, under Article 92/10/20. I'm going to open a meeting on the Presidential Charter under Article 72 of the Civil Code. I'm going to promise the groups and two members on behalf of them. Their talking time is 20 minutes each for the groups and ten minutes for the individuals. I read the names of the members of the MPs who took the stand on Tezkere: Mr. Zeki Hakan Sıdalı, Mr. Mustafa Hidayet Vahaboglu for the People's Movement Party Group, Mr. Tulay Hamımoğlu for the People's Party Group, Mr. Ahmet Ünal Çviköz for the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Osman for the Justice and Development Party Group. Now the first word on behalf of the Good PARTY Group is for Mr. Zeki Hakan Sadalı. Here you go, Mr. Sedal.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0224par0121	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I start speaking, I wish the Fourth Year of the 27th Amendment to the good of our beloved nation, our great Assembly, and our honorable lawmakers. I wish that our talks at this time, the laws that we're going to make, will bring benefits and positive results to our nation, our state. It is with respect and mercy that our great House will be a century-long tree, our founder and first Parliament Speaker, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who has been sent to eternal life, and the state remembers our people, and I wish the living a healthy life. Congressmans, I'd like to start by saying that we support the extension of our Turkish Armed Forces' mandate in Lebanon, which has contributed to the peacekeeping operation based on the UN Security Council's decision. The international mission, which is part of UNIFIL, performs an important task in a part of the East Mediterranean dish that is very close to our country and contributes to efforts for peace and stability in the region. Peace and stability in Lebanon are of great importance not only to that country, but to all the countries of the region without exception. We can identify Lebanon, a small facial measurement, as the key to the stability of the Middle East and the Eastern Mediterranean. We are also historically close to Lebanon, our neighbor at sea. The country's contribution to regional and global stability in Lebanon, which is important in our social and political memory and has a large number of relatives, is both in our state's mind and the republic's traditional foreign policy. The moves to contribute to regional peace, particularly diplomatic initiatives, are not only the responsibility of our country, but also an obligation to its own safety. It is also important for our country's rights and interests in the Eastern Mediterranean to improve strategic and mutual trust-based relations with Lebanon, to reach the level of sea power constraint agreement. On the other hand, good relations with other coastal states, which we share with the Eastern Mediterranean, should be developed again, and we should take the initiative of a state that is free of ideological and personal disputes, prioritizing the interests of the country. We can find a stronger position in the Eastern Mediterranean equation by making agreements based on mutuality, with international legitimacy and gain. Therefore, it is entirely intended that we support the extension of the Turkish Armed Forces, which have been in Lebanon since 2006, to support peace and to take regional responsibility. Precious lawmakers, when we look at the social and political structure of Lebanon's Turkish army, the first problem we face is chronicized social tension, economic and political instability. Lebanon, one of the most popular focal points in recent history, was a long-standing and regional center of attraction. But the political attitude and actions of bad governments in the country have thrown this vast potential country far further away than it should have. Today Beirut lives the fate of ancient cities like Baghdad, Aleppo, Damascus, Mosul. Today, when it is referred to as Lebanon, the word "crisis" comes with it. For many years, in Lebanon, the mismanagement of public debt by politicians who did not understand the economy has caused an economic crisis. However, the failure to prevent the loss of value in exchange for national currency has made life's cost, unemployment and poverty the country's new normal. In Lebanon, one of the two live below the poverty line. Those with the means are in the race to leave the country. When we look at relative attraction centers like Europe, America, we see a lot of Lebanese scientists, administrators, academics, and business people. So why do they work there and not in their own country? Because bad governance and instability in the country have now made political, social and economic conditions unbearable, and they have to look for their future in other countries around the world. After all, Lebanon has become one of the most brain draining countries in the region. Against all these negatives, there are too many young people who are willing to stay in their country and to serve their country. Lebanon still has highly educated individuals, young people who want to use their own abilities for their country, but they also fall into the spiral of despair by being caught in the chronic corruption, bribery, torpedo, and nepotism barrier in the country. In Lebanon, where polarization has become the dominant language, the people feel that citizenship is not the strongest bond that connects them to their homeland and to their nation; the clans, sects, and congregations are acting in this framework. Given that there are at least 20 communities and congregations in the country and that each of them has its own history, culture, fears, and future ideals, it is impossible to talk about a common citizenship ideal. In Lebanon, people are more interested in their own interests than in the interests of the country and society. This is becoming a generally accepted attitude due to the current political picture. Lebanon has tried a nation project, which aims to represent all communities, and ultimately to form a Lebanese nation, but the quota system they're trying to implement has evolved into a structure that is locked into the key tasks of only community leaders. In other words, Lebanon has become a coalition of congregation leaders and has failed to become a real democracy. For example, when an institution is being recruited in Lebanon, it is no longer considered its integrity and ability, it is looked at which congregation and sect the candidate belongs to. That is not enough; not the most deserving and successful in the relevant congregation, but the most closely associated with the congregation leaders is chosen. There's no talking about democracy or ethical principles in such a prudence. This is a clear declaration of political and social corruption. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, when all these problems are going on in Lebanon, we also see that each community is trying to find a foreign protector for itself. In a political atmosphere where stability has not been achieved, the public's search for a guardian also endangers the country's political future. This misbehavior is a serious threat to both Lebanon and the eastern Mediterranean dish. What the Lebanese people need to do is to realize that a modern, prosperous, democratic country can grow in its own hands. The important thing is to find the power to take steps to strengthen the country's independence and democracy within its own dynamics and values. History is full of sad endings to polarized, corrupt, democratic institutions and states that have strayed from integrity and have lost consciousness of being a nation. Therefore, today is not a day for the people of Lebanon to calculate and prepare for a new conflict, but a day for rebuilding the country. Dear lawmakers, on August 4, 2020, the largest business accident in recent years was the industrial disaster of 2,700 tonnes of ammonium nitrate held in the warehouses of Beirut, the capital of Lebanon. Of the largest ports of the Mediterranean, the port of Beirut, where 70 per cent of the Lebanese trade was made, was devastated by the explosion. The explosion brought with it a crisis of health, energy, and food, and in Lebanon there was chaos. This chaos in Beirut was a warning to the world states. This is also a painful example of how risky development and investments are being piled up in a single city. An explosion can damage not only a city, but the entire administration system from an entire country's economy to health, from transport to energy supply. Therefore, as Turkey, we must learn from this explosion. Given the possibility of a large Marmara earthquake, we must quickly plan to distribute the massed economic centers of Istanbul and the Marmara region across the country and take steps to minimize the damage. Unfortunately, there is no guarantee that the negative situation in Beirut will not take place in Turkey either. For example, consider the port of Mersin and its rest area. There is a free zone just to the right of the port of Mersin, a fertilizer factory that stores ammonium nitrate, a petrochemical plant that is planned to be built in front of it, next to it is an oil refinery, which lies the city centre on the left side of the port. The port of Mersin is our country's largest multi-purpose port, and it's infertile. At the port, which has 21 docks, it is able to unload close to 30 kilometers at the same time. Mersin is an important logistical and trade centre in our country, where exports of $10.2 billion from 6 per cent compared to imports of $9.9 billion. Therefore, it is clear that a possible setback in the Port of Mersin will affect the economic structure, transport and supply chain from local to general. According to a study by the World Bank and Çukurova Development Agency, it has been determined that a failure that could last 12 months in the Port of Mersin would directly and indirectly cause our country to lose $1.45 billion in revenue and will lead to the loss of goods that find 40 per cent in the supply chain of possible failures. In all, national economic impacts are estimated to reach 1.1 per cent of Turkey's GDP. This negative from local to global will cost Turkey $21m a day. Dear lawmakers, we see that Beirut's explosion has shown painfully how important the concept of critical infrastructure to states is. Critical infrastructure is decisive for local, regional, national and international economies. If these infrastructures are interrupted, health, economics, transport, energy, security, telecommunications, and many other areas will have difficult negative effects to compensate for. In action from Beirut's example, it has become more important than ever for governments to conduct risk analysis against possible failures in critical infrastructure. The explosion at the Port of Beirut was a great loss to Lebanon. As the port returns to its former state, financial losses will continue to increase. Therefore, we must learn important lessons from this tragedy. We need to increase the resistance of our critical infrastructure against such risks and prevent similar examples from happening. Our country's critical infrastructure must first be defined. These structures are ports, dams, energy transport lines, energy plants, bridges, tunnels, and communication lines. Among these critical facilities, there should also be a list of importance, and then any possible risk to these structures should be identified, the costs of taking precautions should be calculated, and urgent action plans for possible crises should be set up. Building these preparations means controlling Turkey's competitiveness, economic, national security, energy, communications and transportation risks. Today, when these infrastructures are linked by technological developments, it is vital to maintain critical infrastructure in terms of public safety and health, social prosperity and the sustainability of public services. It is a fact that the damage to one critical infrastructure in the country affects other critical infrastructures. Therefore, multi-dimensional and multi-dimensional studies need to be started immediately. Otherwise, like Lebanon, our country could face multiple shocks. It must not be forgotten that preventing crises from happening is both safer and less costly. Dear lawmakers have added new examples of Armenian aggression, which has occupied 20 per cent of Azerbaijan territory for nearly 30 years. It is not possible for us to accept these attacks without even a civil settlement-military distinction. This attitude is the greatest blow to the ideal of peace and stability in the Caucasus. Armenia, the United Nations Security Council must act according to OSCE decisions and international law norms and withdraw immediately from the occupied territory of Azerbaijan. The government must continue unconditionally to support Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) in the face of this invasion and attacks, and use all necessary diplomatic routes to encourage international organisations to end the occupation and to take steps to resolve the problem with justice. Now, the centuries-old Turkish provinces must be liberated, and the moon-star flags that are longed for in their sky will be fluctuated again. On this occasion, as the PARTI, the two states we consider to be a nation, say once again that we stand by you in the righteous trial of Azerbaijan, the Turkish of Azerbaijan, who was a martyr in the attacks of Armenia, remember our civilians and soldiers with mercy, and wish our veterans well. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0225par0135	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Mustafa Hidayet Vahaboglu, come in.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0226par0137	Mr. President, I stand before you in the presence of the President of the United Nations Security Council on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, which requires that the Turkish Armed Forces participate in the UNIFIL again for another year from 31/10/20, and that the necessary arrangements to be made by the presidency shall be carried out in accordance with Article 92. At the beginning of my words, I remind and celebrate the anniversary of the liberation of Istanbul, which was occupied by enemies for four years and ten months and 23 days. In 2006, Turkish Armed Forces served in the United Nations Interim Task Force of Lebanon, with the decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey No. 880, referring to UN Security Council Resolution 1701. For the 13th time, the request for an extension has come to our Grand Assembly. Turkey has joined Operation UNIFIL since 15 October 2006. The UNIFIL Naval Task Force was assigned a frigate of our Navy Command, and Turkish Engineers and Construction Company served for seven years between October 20, 2006 and September 2013. In addition to the construction of the Lebanese Housing and Construction Company Headquarters Building, construction of waste water lines, construction of the freeway, construction of the heliport, construction of electrical lines, construction of maintenance facilities, construction of office buildings and construction of communication lines, the maintenance of public-service institutions such as schools, mosques, hospitals. In addition, the countries participating in Operation UNIFIL were allowed to use the Port of Mersin. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are one of the countries that have never found peace and quiet from when Lebanon was taken from Ottomans. The main reasons for this were the policies of Israel, the United States, Syria, and Syria, and this time since 2006, the Hezbollah-led Hezbollah factor has also played a significant role in the country. As seen in Hezbollah's example, some of the Islamic countries have become supportive of some elements within the other Islamic country they target, such as the Islamic countries that support the PKK in our midst. From July 12th to August 14, 2006, the developments in the post-Israel-Lubnan War were as follows: The capture and forced resignation of Prime Minister Hariri (Prime Minister Hariri) in Saudi Arabia revealed the ugly face of Saudi Arabia's attempt to intervene in the region and Lebanon. In this case, the Saudi-Iran conflict also moved to Lebanon. Not only Western imperial states are seeking to influence the peoples and states of the region, but also Islamic countries. Lebanon is a sensitive country and has a demographic structure that will turn into a powder keg if the delicate balances are not maintained. Any internal conflict, or particularly any outside intervention that may occur in Lebanon after Syria, will not be limited to Lebanon alone and will have an impact on the surrounding countries. Therefore, Turkey must be vigilant against any development that could damage peace, stability and security in our nearby geography, including Lebanon. May I remind you of the explosion in Beirut on August 4, 2020. 2,750 tons of ammonium nitrate are being stored at random, one-in-a-20ths of the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima, which means that an explosive of 1,100 tons of TNT, or dynamite, is being detonated. This explosion is not a coincidence. There is no information except that the ship carrying this explosive device, which is unknown to its manufacturer, is the last charge, and its owner is questionable. There's still no concrete information as to why anyone or any organization has been able to provide, where they're planning to use it, why the Lebanese authorities can be unaware of such a large amount of explosives, but after the explosion, the government has had to resign in Lebanon, so the government has recently changed, and a new ammonium nitrate has recently been found, and a positive aspect of the incident has been reached from the explosion. Peace, trust, and stability do not necessarily need to be our borderline neighbor. From Africa to Afghanistan to Pakistan, from Yemen to Iraq to Syria, from Yugoslavia to Georgia, we see that all kinds of crises in geography have somehow affected Turkey. In particular, remembering the problems of our country's unregulated migration will make it easier to understand. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, the area where our country is located has unfortunately been given the proper conditions that almost any fight can take place. There are groups and states in this area that are motivated to grab each other's throats almost as soon as arm wrestling isn't over. For him, it is inevitable that we have a strong and deterrent army. In our region, the Armenians in our birth, Greece in the west, Israel in our south, are the pawns of those who write global scenarios, the subcontractors who can be spoiled, fed, terror and ordered. These states can be put into action against our country at the time and time of all the games above our territory. When we take steps to determine the continent's territory and unique economic zones in the eastern Mediterranean, when we ask for the legal status of islands and land parts, which are armed in the sea against internationally registered agreements, or even tried to devastate, when we ask for them to return to the legal status of Turkey's rights and interests, there are many states -- for example, France -- that are behind us, against us -- that have nothing to do with the region. The decisive attitude of our country and the fact that Greece is being given naval support by the same country to return from its measures is on the agenda and is being driven into a toy field, assuming that they will frighten the childish Turkey, such as the carrier. Of course, they also receive the harshest answer they deserve from Turkey. As these developments continue, we are witnessing the brutal attacks of Armenia, the brother country of Azerbaijan and its civilian people. Armenia is able to continue to spread and harass, as it has not emerged from the territory of Azerbaijan, despite decisions made by the United Nations and thirty years of well-intentioned initiatives. The goal of the spoiled child in the Caucasus of the West is the Turks today, as it was yesterday. If for 30 years there has been no account from the murderers who slaughtered the Turkish people of Azerbaijan, a total of 106, women, 83, children, in one night in Hodjalı, they will continue to attack on the basis of their habits. Sarkisyan, one of the two men responsible for the teaching massacre -- who later became President, I draw your attention -- thought the Armenians would not kill the civilian population. We did this as an example to show the Azerbaijans that we did not joke. Etyen Mahçupyan -- you know this name -- is that all of the killed are the Turks of Azerbaijan, and because they carry this identity, it's clear that the shooters are doing it knowingly and in accordance with a decision. As in his statement, he describes the elements of the genocide crime, and this is an Armenian citizen of the Republic of Turkey. But in addition, the fact that Armenia is still being supported by France, the United States, Russia, and in addition to these countries, Iran, is at least an embarrassment to mankind. Organizations such as the OSCE Minsk Group, who have been useless for years and who have served in the encouragement of the Armenians, have unfortunately ended their work with a fiasco in the verbiatta. Today's wars have become ugly and uncompromising, without rules, without any human values or rules of faith, where their goal is a civilian people, where more civilians have lost their lives than soldiers, where water, food, health, education facilities, should not be touched. Global and regional planning countries do not use their military resources as a deterrent for defence purposes alone. Military power, even the technology and weapons that determine this power, are being used as a determinant of the country's plans, its goals. Today, military power is used as the main factor in creating and consolidating efforts to create a field of influence, such as diplomatic, economic, political, cultural and so on. Although the Republic of Turkey has no expansionist, no control or goal, Front Asia has to be a historical, historical interest in Turkey's history. In fact, security boundaries should be considered beyond our national borders, and steps should be taken accordingly. Our country sent the first combat unit abroad to Korea in 1950. The Turkish Armed Forces are still providing support for peace-support operations in six different countries, including the U.N. Lebanese Temporary Force. The Turkish Armed Forces have served in the past to ensure peace and stability in many countries, including Somalia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Yugoslavia, Albania, Macedonia, Congo, Sudan, Iraq, Darfur, Somalia-Aden Bay, Afghanistan. All such tasks should not be limited to the services of the Turkish Armed Forces. The approach to these services must be strengthened by efforts such as diplomatic, commercial, political, cultural, art, and made permanent and long service to the rights and interests of the Republic of Turkey. The link and mission should not be limited to the elements of the Turkish Armed Forces in the Lebanon Temporary Task Force alone. I want to give you an example of history: In 1937, Ataturk met with the Romanian Foreign Minister, saying to him: "All human beings need to count one body and one member of its body, and every nation should be affected by the pain at the tip of the finger of a body. If there is a disturbance anywhere in the world, what is it to me? If there is such a disturbance, we must deal with it as if it were between us." The Turkish nation must not lose its historical mission. What are we doing there? What are we doing here? As a result, I'd like to submit to the General Assembly's information that we consider the request for a decision by the Turkish Armed Forces to extend the mandate of the United Nations for another year from 31/10/2020 as a positive party for the Nationalist Movement Party.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0227par0153	On behalf of the Democratic Party of Rights, Mr. Tulay Hatimlari Orç. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0228par0156	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs shouldn't have started with the agenda after a long break. Turkey has such urgent needs that its priority should be given to those urgent needs. The increasing unemployment problem and poverty, the unemployment of tens of thousands of college students, the stage of the pandemic, and the impact of the country's economic crisis, were to look at the lives of elderly pensioners. We had to focus on anti-woman violence programs. We needed to talk in this country about how the government couldn't handle politics, how it tried to bring it to order through the judiciary, and what a huge human rights violation that took place. We had to talk to Kurdish politicians, leftists, socialists, right-wingers, non-compliant, non-compliant, non-profits -- how he was trying to get them to swear in prison and in judgment. We had to talk about the efforts to design all opposition, especially the HDP, through a bag of files prepared with the Kobane operation, and how this power was prepared for the vision of 2023. We needed to talk ISIS. We should have discussed how they intended to build a dark country in the name of the Islamic State of Damascus, including the Levant region of Hatay. In the 21st century, we had to talk about the massacres of ISIS gangs in Turkey, who cut off heads and burned people with Turkish soldiers as if they were in a movie scene, selling women in slave markets. Look, the next few days are the October 10th Gar massacre; the Gar massacre of ISIS is one of the bloodiest massacres in the history of Turkey. I'm here to honor the peace doves we lost in the Gar massacre once again, and it's just been discussed, as the Kobani case has been, to turn around and see how the Antalya Police are involved in the Gar massacre. I suggest to all the MPs here that they examine the Gar massacre case, whether they have the courage to talk about Kobani like that. Of course, we should talk foreign politics, but we shouldn't discuss foreign politics in a dissertation format. Of course, it is the opposition's primary duty to say the faults of the government that has ruled this country so far. If something was done right, the opposition would have been with these truths, and the HDP would have been with them, but unfortunately, our assessment that we're about to sort out -- Turkey is controversial on every issue in the world's public eye -- and we've seen a form of governance, even in the coming process of the international judicial path. When you've eliminated the assembly, when you've determined foreign policy, then you say: "Be with us, and do not act as a party. You've already proclaimed this Assembly from the beginning. You don't count this House on anything in foreign politics, domestic politics. You want this Parliament to have an audience, and then you say: "Why aren't you with us?" Yes, let's remember what happened in Libya in the past period: two groups formed after Gaddafi: the Turkish-based Hafter forces, which were after the country's rule, and the National Covenant Government based in Tripoli. If Turkey had played a mission like this, we would have approved it: either of them, we made peace in two separate tribal fights. You just said you didn't make peace, you took sides with one of these clans. You signed two memorandum of understanding with Tripoli-based National Covenant Government in December in a row, the Controversy for Limiting Mediterranean Sea Authority Areas 5 December 2019, the Memorandum for Security and Military Co-operation 21 December 2019. You didn't eat again, you didn't drink the very day after New Year's, so on January 2nd, you convened the Assembly. With all these problems in the country, let the opposition (Muslims) sometimes gather together extraordinaryly. Although you did make their proposals, you were never there, but the Assembly met in a hurry for the Libyan thesis, and you got the thesis out of here with a majority of votes. This is the gift you gave to the people of Turkey and to the peace of the region, so to speak, was a Christmas present.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0229par0162	Where's your conscience?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0228par0163	The Secretary of State recently throws a tweet, and says: "The agreement we made with Libya has been registered by the United Nations. It's really embarrassing, it's embarrassing. A foreign minister can go up to a document that is sealed with a document. The United Nations have approved it. He can say that. And then you expect to be taken seriously and seriously in foreign politics; no one will take you seriously. Why would you expect such a big and obvious mistake, a documented lie, to be taken seriously by this Parliament, and the opposition to line up behind it? Yes, we considered all of this to be responsible, and here the opposition has repeatedly expressed these problems from this bench, and you have ignored them by turning the deaf ear. We had concrete suggestions for the solution, and you didn't take any of them seriously. In Cyprus and Libya, the parties must be brought together and the countries that are coastal with the Mediterranean should be met, and that is how the East Mediterranean issue should be discussed. And what did you do? You sent the drilling ships after the drilling ships, the warships after the drilling ships, you foamed the waters, and then you said we should be in the field first. You said, "We'll win at the table later." Now I'm asking you: what did you do at the table? You have to explain it to the public in Turkey, especially in this Parliament. I don't think I need to tell you from here in the Egyptian and Moroccan talks on how the Serrac government and Hafter have been brought together today regarding the Libyan process. And also known for its proximity to AKP power, Libyan Interior Minister, or rather Minister of the government on Serrac's side Fethi Başakakak and Serrac no longer want to work, Serrac will also withdraw. Well, then, what about all the deals you've made so far, all the war investments you've made, who's gonna pay for that? You've sent Turkish soldiers, warriors from Syria, millions of dollars. You don't even have the decency to sit this down and present your account to the public and the MPs in this House. Who's gonna pay for this? The state, the government, works with the document; the Grand National Assembly of Turkey works with the document. But what does power do? He's a eunuch, he's an agitator of power, and he says we won. Where did you win? You're losing. Clearly, the winners are clear on the Libyan process. You do not have the initiative of Egypt and Morocco. Turkey is out of initiative. But Turkey means peace, and we will bring the coastal countries together. If it had said, there would not have been so much tension in the Eastern Mediterranean, nor would you be in Libya right now. Yes, we also have to look at Syria, because you spoke a great deal in Syria. When the war began in Syria in 2011, you were directly on the side of the war. The gangs with Al Qaeda, Al Nusra, and its extension, ISIS... you sometimes called it the ISI, sometimes you said something else; you offered them the centers and the focus of their politics, especially our borders. I assure you, most of the time, I am correcting or correcting the refugee camp, where you have replaced the warriors under the name of the refugee camp. When we wanted to visit those camps with the Human Rights Association, with international human rights organizations, you closed them down, and you didn't act transparently because there were ISISists, Al Nusraci, Al Qaedakers. At this point, I would like to remind you that in October 17, 2017, the Astana Agreement was decided to form a non-conflict zone in Idlib, and that other countries, Russia, Iran, were told by the garantorship of Turkey: "You can create observation points." It was 12. How many points of observation are there now? There are 140 observatories. At this point... because when Idlib is resolved, a political process will begin in Syria. Russia says to Turkey: OK, your work in many places is done. If your goal was to actually fight organizations like ISIS, Al Nusra, Al Qaeda, now Syria has established its own territory in Idlib. Get out of these areas, pull out your heavy weapons, lower your sightings, lower your troops. What was Turkey's response, or rather what was your power's response? I don't want to describe it like Turkey. What did you do? Military convoys have been moving from the border to Syria for the last week. Well, we also have to ask... I also have to add that Turkey's response in return: give us Kobic, Kobani and Tel Rifat, and we'll withdraw from Idlib. Is there such an understanding? That must have been the purpose of your time in Idlib, to take Menbic, Kobani, Tel Rifat, and other territories if you have the opportunity. What do you want to do here? I wonder what your account is with Kobani. Wasn't ISIS the common enemy? Isn't that what you told the public? Well, when the ISIS was defeated in Kobani, like the Forty Thieves, the villagers and ISIS were evacuating the villages for fear, while the ISIS, such as an invincible organization, was defeated in Kobani, with the support of international forces and coalition forces. Well, this has been asked a lot, and I want to ask you one more time: why did you have to be so upset when ISIS was defeated? What's the matter with you?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0230par0168	What are you talking about? You've had it rough, you've had it rough.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0228par0169	You need to know here that what you call Menbic, what you call Kobani, what you call Tel Rifat is like any other neighborhood in Ankara; grown-ups go to work, children go to school, people plow their fields, go to work, have a normal home life. But you make it sound like the militants with guns stopped, just want to fight. These areas you're demanding, the area we call Kobani, Idlib, all these are people's habitats. How can you find such an easy savings on people's habitats? If the opposite were to happen to Turkey, won't we all stand up together?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0230par0170	No, you don't stop.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0228par0171	...Especially Mr. Erdogan is giving a speech at a multi-opening opening at Vahdetttin Mansion in Hatay, and he says: "There is no chance that Turkey will be at peace and peace unless Syria is safe and at peace." So we must serve peace in Syria, so we must stop the language and policy of war and conflict in Syria... and stop the mistake we have committed so far. Look, the things to do are simple: respect Syria's territorial integrity, contribute to Syria's constitutional writing process, play a positive role in the Geneva process. To withdraw quickly from Afrin, Idlib, to make peace with the people of Kobani, to be with Kurdish people's achievements in Syria, to resolve the Kurdish problem in Turkey in peaceful and democratic ways, and to sit down with the Syrian government again. In areas under the control of the Syrian government, where peace has been made, a project must be worked to ensure that asylum seekers present in Syria can return to their territory. To guarantee those people's guarantees of life in every sense, both military and economic and social sense... that's the kind of policy you should follow if you want to serve peace in Syria and keep the borders of Turkey safe. Yes, there was much talk about Azerbaijan. I think that in the eastern Mediterranean, Libya, and Syria, it's like, oh, my God! It's a good thing something like this happened so we can save ourselves politically. You're in the mood, and the supporting media pumps war for 24 hours, pumping war news. I must point out that demonstrations are being held in front of the Armenian Patriarch in Turkey. Because of our Congressman Garo Paylan's identity, sheets and sheets are made in the papers in front of headlines because he wants peace. Our position on this matter is very clear. We don't want to have a new Hrant Dink case, and if there's a case like this, we'll all be under it, all of us. And we have to say here that the role of Turkey, particularly the Minsk Group, which should be involved in the battle of Azerbaijan in the Azerbaijan process, is to force both sides to dialogue, to reconcile both sides. Yes, the Azerbaijans are our brothers, that's right. The Armenians are our brothers, the natives are our brothers, the Kurds and the Arab, everyone is our brothers. If we say we're brothers, then we should follow a sisterhood policy. You can't trade war tourism and war. Look, today the Sultan Murat Brigades are said to have been sent from here to Azerbaijan to fight. Here, private security companies like SADAT are almost at war tenders. Your military-test complex son-in-law, your ally, et cetera. Unfortunately, that's where you're dragging the country right now. Yes, I would also like to say a few words about Lebanon. On August 4, 2020, a huge explosion occurred in Lebanon, in the port, and hundreds of people died. It is true that there has been a great deal of destruction in terms of material, spiritual, life. UNIFIL has had soldiers there in the United Nations, because he was able to prevent Israeli-Lubnan wars, but unfortunately in 2006 neither that could be prevented nor could it be prevented in 2013, and what Lebanon needs now is real humanitarian aid. Today Lebanon is not an urgent argument that Lebanon needs, but a piece of peace and a piece of peace that Lebanon urgently needs today. In that sense, if Turkey wants to make a contribution, it invites international forces to form a working group in support of Lebanon, in terms of humanitarian support, and all the countries involved put their hands on it, and show that it is in solidarity with the people of Lebanon, of course. And I must also say that in the streets of the Arab... the Arab streets are unfortunately very reactive to Turkey right now... because of all the issues we're talking about that we may not have been able to get into deep enough. We need to look at the Arab League's explanations. So we're really saying that in order to achieve social peace and stability, this policy, war politics, war trade, war tourism must be abandoned immediately, and I think Lebanon, Beirut, is the successor of Beirut, which I think is the best-known, the best-feeling, living Feyruz knows, and Feyuruz's names tell them best, and Feyruz says:
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0231par0177	We don't understand.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0228par0178	And here's what Feyruz says: "The bread we eat tastes like fire and smoke..."
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0232par0180	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0228par0181	Our people's wounds are always fresh. The tears of crying mothers don't stop. My city is sad, my city has turned off its lights, my city is now alone with the sky. This is the spirit of Lebanon, tired of wars and suffering. It's not a soldier he needs, but a piece of peace, a piece of peace, a piece of peace, a piece of true brotherhood, just like in the Middle East and North Africa, like in every Arab, every Turk, every Kurdish, every Azerbaijan, every Armenian and every people living in this geography. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit04spe0233par0185	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0233par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 2nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. (3/1325) We continue the talks of the main presidential counter. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Ahmet Ünal Avikçü, come in.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0234par0005	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the extension of the UN Interim Task Force (UNIFIL) in Lebanon on the basis of UN Security Council Resolution 2485. On this occasion, I salute our great coven. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Lebanon, took place in a terrible tragedy that resulted in the death of 199 people two months ago. From here, we convey our solidarity with Beirut and the people of Lebanon once again, wishing that the people responsible for this grave event be revealed and the country would heal their wounds as soon as possible. I'd like to refer to Feyruz, like the speaker who just spoke. As Feyruz said, O Beirut! You will be kept in the hand of the city. This beautiful and ancient city of the eastern Mediterranean will rise again and revive its culture with its glorious history. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers are to renew our support for a peacekeeping force aimed at helping civilians to reach out and help in safe and voluntary return of displaced persons following the end of their hostility to Lebanon. On this occasion, I thought we'd take a little walk on the map and take a closer look at our nearby geography. During the summer, we discussed the tension between Turkey and Greece and our Eastern Mediterranean policy. We, the Republican People's Party, have shared our views on the Eastern Mediterranean with the public, and we've submitted our motions for questions in the areas we've seen. We've shared our concerns with the public, and we're going to continue to share them because we see that there are repeated foreign policy errors. For years, meetings have been held in the Eastern Mediterranean that we have not attended or attended or even been invited to. For example, on behalf of a group called EuroMed, France, Italy, Malta, Portugal, Spain, Greece and Cyprus, the Greek Cypriot Administration met last month to discuss the Eastern Mediterranean crisis. This meeting, held on September 10, 2020, was the 7th meeting of this group. Turkey was discussed at this meeting, and Turkey had no chance to express itself. Why? Of course, because of the precious loneliness that Turkey once boasted so much about. Mr. President, of course, no one can prevent Turkey from protecting its legitimate rights due to international law. However, the reasons for the current situation that is pressing us today in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea must be carefully examined and carefully examined. We, the Republican People's Party, have repeatedly said that Turkey's relations with Egypt must be fixed. We have also repeatedly stressed that Egypt is one of the most important actors in the region to assess hydrocarbon resources in the eastern Mediterranean and to take necessary steps on the legal floor of naval authority. We explained to this group that the Eastern Mediterranean Gas Forum, created to evaluate hydrocarbon sources, brought together seven countries in the region, but that we see that Turkey's non-inclusion is unfair and unfair, and we criticised this behavior, and we called for power to take necessary measures, but the result is zero, zero, zero, zero. Members of parliament, it is a fact that the search for solutions that are not included in Turkey is futile in our region, but there is also a method and a code for fighting against these futile efforts. You will not get results from policies that could mean blackmail, such as sending immigrants and refugees to border crossings for fear that the European Union will impose sanctions. Do you think our borders are only closed because of Covid-19? Why do you think people can no longer walk across the border bridge in Isala? Because there's a virus in bridge crossings? Greece shut down Isala. The borders of the European Union with Turkey are closed because of such blackmail and threats. Basically, the biggest problem with Turkey's foreign policy is the lack of integrity, the fact that the State Department staff is almost completely out of commission. First, our relations with Egypt must be brought back to the level that they need and deserve, and the problems of the region must be taken steps to seek solutions with Egypt. Such a development would only please us, but I can't help but stress that foreign policy intelligence organizations cannot be conducted by hand, the Republic of Turkey is not a state of communication. As the Republican People's Party, Turkey's foreign policy will restore our country's reputation in the international community, and we will continue to emphasise the shortcomings and errors of power, as it has been so far, in order to ensure that it will be carried out by decent staffs to protect our rights and interests. I'd like to bring up one of your flaws and flaws here. At a press conference on July 14, 2020, Foreign Minister Mr. Mevlüt Sergeantoglu said that President İbrahim Kaluk had gone to Berlin and attended a three-way meeting with German and Greek officials on July 13, 2020. On behalf of Germany, Prime Minister Merkel has taken part in the public hearing of Foreign Policy Counsellor Jan Hecker. Prime Minister Michotakis' Diplomacy Counsellor Eleni Sourani representing Greece. Again, public statements said that the proposal for preliminary talks between Ankara and Athens to resume talks in 2016 was on the agenda, so Turkey would increase its fight against the European Union through Greece, and the prerequisite for stopping drilling in the Eastern Mediterranean. With no results from the counseling meeting, German Prime Minister Angela Merkel has been asked -- as I speak -- to be frank -- to postpone the transfer of the fast to the region. A new NAVTEX was announced on August 6th, following the signing of the Agreement on the Limitation of Marine Authority Areas between Egypt and Greece. In the process, statements from international institutions showed that Turkey was alone in foreign policy. By September 13, 2020, the fast returned to the coast of Antalya and docked at the port. 1) If the July 13th meeting in Berlin is considered at a time when the legislature of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is under way, what is the reason why the political party groups and the Foreign Commission are not informed about the meeting? Why is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey being disabled in matters of foreign policy? 2) How can you argue that the talks on Turkey's foreign policy for the purpose of discussing an important issue do not mean that the foreign policy was conducted by a consultant instead of the foreign minister, the institutional officer? 3) The withdrawal of Oruç Reis (Greek), the most important of Greece's public requests, was carried out on 13 September. How can you explain that this does not mean that Greece's request was granted a compromise in foreign policy? Dear President, members of parliament, Lebanon is one of the most important countries of the Eastern Mediterranean, and has a close relationship with Turkey, perhaps it was one of them. The foreign policy, which has been monitored in the region for the past 18 years, has driven Lebanon away from our country, as many countries we believe are close to Turkey. Today, Turkey is constantly dealing with problems in the Eastern Mediterranean. However, we should not ignore where, how mistakes have been made, as we look for the reasons why we face these problems. The discovery of the first hydrocarbon deposits in the eastern Mediterranean is said to be early in the 2000s. From that time on, the phase of the Eastern Mediterranean should have been seen to become a new energy basin. At the core of the problems that have arisen in the Eastern Mediterranean today, it is hard to imagine that there is also a struggle to reach energy sources in the region. The Greek Cypriot administration announced its first discovery of hydrocarbon beds in 2011. However, in 2003, before the Greek Cypriot administration was even accepted as a full member of the European Union, Egypt signed agreements to limit naval jurisdictions with countries in the region, starting with Egypt. As the Greek Cypriot administration became a full member of the European Union in 2004, the developments against our country in the Eastern Mediterranean have gained momentum. I would especially like to draw the bottom of the fact that foreign policy, which has been followed for our country in recent years, is a one-dimensional and narrow-minded foreign policy line. We are going through a period where no foreign policy has been implemented from a holistic point of view, regardless of how steps or decisions taken will affect other matters. Diplomatic relations with Egypt since 2013 are one of the steps in one dimension, without integrity and shaped by internal political accounts. Neither Israel nor Egypt could have advanced energy cooperation. At that time, Egypt discovered natural gas deposits in the Zohr Basin. I would like to remind you that we interrupt talks with Egypt in the area of naval authority in 2007, especially and regretfully. You know what had to be done? While working on a solution to the Cyprus issue, a close collaboration with Syria, Lebanon, Israel and Egypt would be needed to monitor the moves of the Greek Cypriot government, to surround Cyprus. The Greek Cypriot administration signed in 2007 the agreement to limit naval jurisdictions with Lebanon, which is the topic today. We still don't have that arrangement with Lebanon. I often see, and a speaker has spoken before, asking questions as to why France is taking a stand against Turkey, why it opposes our policies. Just France? What about Russia, the United States of America? Why are we faced today in Syria, Libya, under the guise and appearance of us acting together with these countries? We may also have valuable deputies who ask this question, who think they can't find a logical answer, under the roof of this great assembly. Let's remember our history, dear lawmakers. We were once the foremost force of the Mediterranean, and today, as the most important actor of the Eastern Mediterranean, we were victims of the emptiness we created when we needed to contribute to solving all problems. Everyone is competing to fill the void that we have created, including France, Russia, the United States, and even the Gulf countries. There are important actors in the eastern Mediterranean balances, like Syria, Israel, Egypt. These countries would look to what Turkey would act on, and they would try to take positions according to the steps Turkey would take. Now I ask: Does Turkey have an ambassador in Israel? Does Turkey have an ambassador in Egypt? Is Turkey capable of making any constructive contribution to the solution of unfortunate internal conflicts that Syria has been through, or Libya? We're not, precious MPs, we're not. We are not, because we are taking sides, and those who are divided are eliminated. We have finally eliminated ourselves by taking sides. For one thing, not too long ago, just ten or fifteen years ago, Turkey was in a position to gain respect for everyone as a solution-maker in the Gaza Strip, an actor who facilitated negotiations between Israel and Palestine. I remember, in 2008, in a hotel in Istanbul, Israel was waiting for Syrian delegations in a hotel, Turkey played a facilitating role in the negotiations between the two delegations. Today, the carpets under our feet have slipped, and we've gone from mediating, facilitating country to disrupting, difficult country. It's not a painting of foreign policy to be proud of, it's a painting to be ashamed of. If we say that Turkey's gap only leads to developments against Turkey, we're only telling part of the truth. The Palestinian case is also being filled with other moves due to Turkey's gap in the region. See, Israel takes steps to normalize its relations with the United Arab Emirates, and now Bahrain, and then it is said that other Arab countries will follow them. However, Turkey would still be Turkey, the actor who would make the most of the solution to the problem if Turkey continued its relations with both the Palestinian state and Israel at a normal level. It is said that we have a historical role in Libya, which is probably proud of it, but what Libya is in today is far from a proud occasion. Libya, like Syria, is now a divided country. In this, unfortunately, Turkey's foreign policy has had an important role in the follow-up policy. Mr. President, one of the main issues that has created the greatest tension in the Eastern Mediterranean is Greece's desire to impose its maximumist policies by taking advantage of Turkey's lonely and isolated foreign policy. You need to understand this well. We are in favor of resolving our problems with Greece with negotiations, negotiations and dialogue, and we insist on it. Other than that, we don't find any other methods right. Missteps in foreign policy not only lead to Turkey's isolation, but also weakens our international reputation. Constantly speaking out of the high curtain, threatening talks; never giving concessions, never backing down. The expression means raising hands. If you do that, every soft step after that will be considered a step back. What does that mean? Don't get me wrong, we're saying don't compromise, but when we say don't compromise, we don't mean steal battle drums. What we're saying is that it was one of the model countries in the international community that was fingered, with foreign, diplomacy, diplomatic style and abilities. This feature led to an overwhelming number of votes among non-permanent members of the United Nations Security Council in 2008. Today, Turkey is cited as an example among countries that resolve problems through force. What needs to be done is to restore Turkey's extremism and diplomacy and restore Turkey's dignity. Dear President, lawmakers, given the steps taken on the Eastern Mediterranean, Turkey appears to be subject to details of international public opinion and foreign countries, except public opinion. Do you think this process means we're following a national foreign policy? In the case of the Eastern Mediterranean, the government claims to have advocated the preconditioned negotiation, but in public developments, Turkey seems to accept the preconditions. We do not adopt such a foreign policy; we want an exemplary foreign policy, which is upright, respected, respected, and admired by the international community as well. This is what suits Turkey. If we support this thesis today, we take such an attitude in the hope of creating a change in policies that have so far neglected Lebanon. Hopefully, mistakes that have been made so far will be corrected and our relations with Lebanon will improve as soon as possible. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0235par0033	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Osman Love Bak. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0236par0036	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I wish the new legislature to be a blessing to our nation, to our Parliament. Under UN Security Council's decision 2539 under UNIFIL's decision to extend the mandate of the UN Interim Task Force, I have made a pledge on behalf of the President of Turkey's Presidential Group, which has asked for power in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, under the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701, and on the principles determined by the Supreme Assembly Resolution 880. I hereby salute the High Council. Let me start by responding to criticism. If we start by considering the HDP speaker's claims on ISIS... of course, when ISIS was defeated, there were people all over the world who were upset, the number of terrorists that had been eliminated in the operations against ISIS, the number of terrorists that had been neutralized and eliminated in Operation Fırat Shield, there are 3,500 terrorists in it. Sure, they'll be uncomfortable. What was the point? Building a terror state in our south, building a corridor of terror. Will he allow it, Republic of Turkey? He won't. So, of course, they'll be uncomfortable. Yes, let's say: What is our problem with Kobani? Should terrorists, Kurdistan Workers and YPGs settle on our Kobani border? Of course, this country's military, security forces will operate, take part there, eliminate the terror state. We're there now, of course, they'll be uncomfortable. ISIS is a project that stopped the march of this project, our Turkish soldier. The operations that have been put in the middle are obvious, the actions that have been done. Of course, they're uncomfortable, they're unhappy, they're definitely unhappy, they're clearly unhappy. These projects fall apart, the games fall apart, the games that are intended to be done in Syria fall apart. Yes, there's been a coup attempt on the 15th of July. I am the head of NATO Parliamentary Turkish Group, and we went to America with our friends, and in the United States we went out and the American experts said that the Turkish army lost its former power in NATO, not its former power, lost its command, lost its command. I said, do you know why? They're criticizing 200 senior generals, admirals, senior commanders inside. He's lost command. They say he's lost command. I said, "You're wrong, because these commanders are now in command of the army, the current commanders." This army has been wiped out of those old traitors. There's a stronger Turkish army than before, and that's when we did Operation Firat Shield, and we all watched. What was Operation Firat Shield? It's a dagger, a dagger in the heart of the terror state. Who did this operation? It was the Turkish army. So, who finished ISIS? They're talking. You can't throw bombs from above. Tell me who fought at the front, man-to-man. Who fought ISIS? We're telling the whole world. Who fought against ISIS? Turkish army. The only army fighting ISIS against Syria is the Turkish army. I'm proud to say this as a Turkish MP at NATO meetings. We're proud of our soldiers. We're proud of our soldiers, our commanders, who've done these operations. Then we came across these, and after Operation Firat Shield, at various meetings, they said, "You were right, you were right." Yes, the Turkish army is stronger than before because we've wiped out the traitors inside. There is a saying, you know: if there are thieves in there, the door won't lock. The men were misdirecting our army. They've cooked up a lot of things that happened there, bowls. What happened? Then we did Operation Afrin, Operation Olive branch. They said: "Ya, this operation will not be accomplished by the Turkish army." They made this many tunnels, what did they do, what did they do, what did they do? In Operation Olive branch, our army entered, he, the heroes, how did they escape, how did they escape? You have the Turkish army, the Turkish nation. There isn't a nation in this geography that's just like it used to be. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) They used to say that the SIHA (SIHA) cannot fly. Why? Well, Israel won't allow it. America didn't get permission. This drone is not allowed to fly, it is missing. No, we didn't allow it, we didn't allow it. Either that friend, now that there's a Turkey that builds a national ship, builds a tank, builds an ATAK helicopter, there's no country that takes orders like that; there's a strong Turkey in this region, in this geography. We said, "What if we have nowhere else to go?" So, what they're saying is that Turkey did this, that's what it did. They criticize it, that's what they come to NATO meetings and say. There, I say, thank you very much, our friends at the Republican People's Party, the National Movement Party, and our friends at the GOOD PARTY are actually at NATO, we're at NATO, we're defending our thesis, and I thank them from here. For those of you who say our best interests. I thank those friends of ours, who they are, and who they are, I thank them. We are there for the good of our country... but some speak otherwise. They don't suit you. Those who don't take the country's interests ahead... they don't look good, they don't look good. Look, there are other delegations coming, either friend or non-verbal. Sometimes you look at me, and I've served in the AKPM, and my friend, he's like a congressman from another country! What's it like? Guys, let's just drop it. An American... look, our former Defence Minister Ismet Abi, İsmet Yilmaz Bey gave an example: Pelosi is asking Pelosi about the arguments against Trump. I don't speak against my own country outside, he says. Guys, we've been in this geography for a thousand years. We don't have anywhere else to go. We will defend our rights and our law. Critics are being made about the eastern Mediterranean, saying this, saying this. And the friend, what do we do? Are we going to beg the American to investigate, beg the British or beg the Norwegian? Did we get our own research ships? We got it. Here are the disturbances, Turkey is now implementing its own goals, plans, strategies. He didn't attend the meeting. No, he did it like this.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0237par0042	Don't give in. We say, don't compromise, that's all.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0236par0043	Friends, in no way do we say, look, in no way do we eat anyone's rights in the Eastern Mediterranean, we have no eyes on anyone, no law, but we protect our rights to the end, to the end. Because we've been in this geography for a thousand years, a thousand years. The man talks from miles away. Here's what we do, we do the embargo, we say, "Oh, my friends, we need to be one heart in these national issues." From there he made a statement from France. He said, "What does Macron involve in him, Macron? Who is Macron, friend Macron? Let him do his job, first let him solve the Yellow Vests, and in France, let him solve his own business. What are you doing here? Well, now you don't have that kind of Turkey. There's a strong Turkey with defence industry, foreign policy, production. Yeah, well, it's not like you're on your feet when you're gone. Look, everyone in the world knows about Turkey's military operations in the fight against terrorism in this geography. They tell us, there are commanders working with Turkish soldiers in NATO, and they tell us how brave and fair and merciful the Turkish soldier is: merciful. We are such a people." So, I swear to God, I've been a member of NATO since 2011, and other than that, I've served in the Cabinet, and I'm proud of my country. I'm proud of my country, my people, at the meetings I go to. We tell our thesis, of course they won't like it, they'll try to tell their thesis, we'll tell our thesis, we'll tell our thesis, we'll tell our truth. (CHP rows) We will not compromise in the eastern Mediterranean, we will, of course, receive our dues from the Black Sea, but in accordance with justice. We're not that kind of country. Look, I'm telling our country for everyone we've been to, for every congressman, every inch of our country is very valuable, our nation's trust. Where we're going, let's talk about our country's policies. They're telling the truth. It's not true. Let's talk about our own thesis. Now, about Lebanon. Of course, on August 4, 2020, a very sad event occurred in Lebanon, and 199 people lost their lives. Once again, on behalf of our nation, I offer my condolences to the relatives and all the Lebanese who died in the Port of Beirut explosion. Turkey has been on the side of all Lebanese people, regardless of friendship and brotherhood. Our country's support for Lebanon and the people of Lebanon will continue, as it has so far. As you all know, after the explosion, our Vice President, Mr Fuat Oktay, and our Foreign Minister, Mr Mevlüt Sergeant, paid a visit to Beirut, the capital of Lebanon, which had become a disaster area. With all the support and help of our country, they had the opportunity to express firsthand that they were with our Lebanese brothers. They had talks with the Lebanese President, the Speaker, the Prime Minister. Of course, it was once again evident that in Lebanon, Turkey, the Turkish nation, and the Turkish people, there is an entirely different place, and we have a genuine friendship. Yes, the people who went down to the streets to meet the Turkish delegation -- all of you have watched the videos -- were saying that day, let our lives and blood be sacrificed to you, Erdoğan. One of them said: 'The Arab people say other things. You know who doesn't like it in the Arab countries? Those puppet governments. Puppet governments don't like it, they hate it, they do it because Turkey is strong. What do the people say? They show their love by putting out these slogans. This love is for the Turkish people, along with our President. Look, everywhere we've been, we've left traces, we've left mercy, we've built, we've made investments. People have that intimacy. The lawmakers we meet at meetings tell us that, in fact, when they meet a Turkish MP, they talk very freely, and when they're with us, there's self-confidence. It's really very, very important. We need to defend our country strongly both in foreign policy and in domestic policy everywhere. So there's a strong, growing Turkey, and there's no Turkey that takes orders from there. There's a Turkey standing upright in this geography, our leader Recep Tayyip Erdogan, along with the Cumhur Alliance. We want to continue to represent our country strongly. We believe, we trust our people. We believe in the support our nation has given us. He's pointing out from there, Mr. Engin, but I'll tell you a few more things: Azerbaijan, Can Azerbaijan... about us, about Azerbaijan, at NATO meetings on Karabakh -- our friends who served here last time -- on each platform, we're telling that massacre in Karabör. We're telling the Armenians what they're doing. The Armenians attacked, what happened? The Azerbaijan army, our Azerbaijan brothers, have operated against them. Now they're crying, asking for help from right to left. We are with Azerbaijan until the end. Until the end, this nation is with him to the end of Azerbaijan. All the way to the end! This operation must go on and on until the invaders leave here in Karabağ, in that land. Azerbaijan must take this land back. And we'll always be there for you, so let me put it this way. Then I mentioned the eastern Mediterranean. Now Engin is continuing his signal.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0238par0052	I'm not. I'll take my word for 60.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0236par0053	Okay, I'll go on then. Now, on the other hand, especially when the Middle East is on the agenda, it is good to keep this point in mind: Of course, the Palestinian issue in the heart of all the problems in the Middle East is impossible to get rid of the region's troubles and conflicts unless a permanent and comprehensive solution is resolved. The truth of the matter is the Palestinian matter. Therefore, the issue of Palestine must be highlighted at every opportunity that it remains a priority. The Republic of Turkey has always continued to emphasize that issue. In fact, the crisis in Lebanon in 2006 appears to still be part of a process that leads to Palestine that aggravates the situation in the region. The occupied Palestinian lands are one of the most persecuted, persecuted places in the world. The current Israeli administration, such as the inhuman blockade in Gaza, illegal residential activities, attacks on Jerusalem's historical and legal status, has brought all human values to the ground beyond international law. Moreover, recent initiatives aimed at the establishment of so - called peace, including the United States and some Arab countries, have no other meaning but the zeal of Israel to justify these violations and crimes. At this point, the crucial question is, what is this country called Israel? What is the territory of this land of Israel? Where was Israel in 1947? What was Israel in 1949, 1967, and where is Israel now? On the day of a righteous answer to that question, the foundation of lasting peace and stability will also be laid in the Middle East. Of course, I brought up the issues of the conflict in Syria. We cannot allow a terrorist state to be established in the south of our country, north of Syria. I've told you about our struggle in this direction. Of course, NATO Secretary General visited our country yesterday. He visited our President, Foreign Minister and Minister of National Defence to discuss issues between Greece and Turkey. Therefore, NATO Secretary General also expressed how important Turkey is in NATO. We're a strong country, a strong country. Now I'll tell you one little thing. We went to a meeting in America called General Atomics. A company that makes drones around the world -- one of the five countries in the world -- saw me as Turkey -- and when he saw the Turkish MP, he said: "Congratulations." We can't sell you any more because we do it ourselves. That's it, that's the technology, that's the power in the defense industry. Look, we see in all operations how powerful the drones are, how powerful the SIHA are. Here, Turkey is trying to show its strength with its strong industry, with its defence industry, with its investments. It is no longer a country that is called to the edge of the table; there is a leader and Turkey at the table, who speaks, who exchanges opinions with world leaders. We're proud of our country. Our parliament is being asked to extend its mandate for a year, for our country to serve in the UN peacekeeping force UNIFIL. So in light of these issues, considering our bilateral relations with Lebanon and the security conditions in the region, I say we're in favour of the presidential thesis on the extension of the UN Security Council's mandate at UNIFIL, and we're in favour of a positive vote. I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0239par0063	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0240par0064	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0239par0065	I demand word on 60, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0240par0066	Here, one minute from your seat.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0239par0069	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I watched with great interest the Minister's speech of excitement and envy. Now, without a doubt, our army is strong, and without the Minister's concern, an MP is strong, strong on the parliamentary stand. If he shouts, he seems to have a problem, don't worry; the Turkish army is indeed strong, and it's very powerful in spite of your wrong policies. (Applause from CHP) Turkey, Turkey and the Republic of Turkey are undoubtedly very powerful, along with 83 million citizens. Neither our army nor our Turkey has gained that power. Our army is an army that has proven its strength in the Battle of Çanakkale, in the Battle of Peace in Cyprus, in the Battle of Salvation. Although there was a 100 - year - young republic in our home country, Turkey has proved its strength, with the capacity, capacity and volume to be in G20, since the 1970s. It doesn't mean that you pulled the power of Turkey down. I won't say anything, but Turkey was strong before you; its army was strong and its economy was strong, that's one.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0241par0071	Now he's stronger, now he's stronger.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0239par0072	Thanks. Better, better, let's do it together. But wait a minute... now, Trump, he wrote a mean letter to our President.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0242par0074	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0239par0075	Macron gave our president a smart-mouthed, unassuming, international taunt. Biden, in his mind he's nice, that's useful in domestic policy, but -- he's got to change Erdoğan, and he's got to go out like this, and he's got to go out like this, and he's mean, and he's mean, and he's mean, and he's dirty. When we all leave tonight, let's go to social media, see how long the AK PARTY's reflexes have been on these three, the Republican People's Party reflexes. Mr. Secretary, shall we make a bet? We've shown as much reflex as you, because we're the President of the Republic of Turkey, because of Trump's inability, Biden's inability, Macron's inability. Now, to Turkey's role in the Middle East.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0242par0078	Guys, let's turn on the mike. We're opening for the last time.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0239par0080	Palestine is ours, and the United Arab Emirates are our brothers, our brethren, our nation. Now, the sadness is this: that your foreign policy is weak in the Middle East, that it's weak in the Middle East, and that's the point of what I've just said, Mr. Erdogan, that the Coven of Gel is to share in foreign politics... and I'm sorry that I feel sorry for this: that America, Israel, and the United Arab Emirates are holding the table by the ears, making them sign co-operate, and I don't say that they don't cooperate. Palestine, where we say we're going to give everything to the case, is being included in Greece and the Greek Cypriot Administration and the Eastern Mediterranean Natural Gas Forum, a forum without Turkey, and...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0242par0082	Mr. Altay, I'm opening for the last time, please wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0239par0083	... and at the point of Russia and America, which are the two countries who are running these scams, my President is also at Putin. I feel sorry for him, and you should feel sorry for him. That's why we're calling foreign policy more Parliament. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0242par0086	Mr. Beştaş, please come in.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0243par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, we watched 20 minutes of talk, and I realized once again how much of a mess foreign policy is in, where we can hold it, how we can't know, why we don't know. He said a lot of things, and I'm going to give them concrete information. First of all, it's not so easy for the Turkish army to fight ISIS; there is no such thing. I give you the number and place: the Turkish army was not involved in any way against Rakka, Mosul, Deyrizor, Kobani. Again, I would like to remind you of the operation against Bağdadi, who is hiding at the Idlib border. The leader of ISIS was killed at the foot of the border, right under Turkey's nose. America gave information to Iran, Rojava, Iraq, everyone, but Turkey didn't give information to Turkey, and the whole world wrote that information about ISIS was leaked -- because it wasn't trusted. Now, I'm going to show you a headline, a...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0244par0093	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0243par0094	Cerablus, who made this headline? I've got hundreds of headlines like this. There was no such weapon against ISIS, the key was delivered, it was in ISIS's hand, you took over. That's in our records. Now, the other thing: once, not a single bullet was fired. Look, I'm talking about handing over the key. I'm not saying that, your press is saying that. Look, don't let the cameras see it, don't hide it.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0245par0096	Tell me about El Bab, El Bab.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0243par0097	Another issue: there is a serious belief that the length of ISIS's life span is directly related to your power, there is information. Now, who took the hand of EI Bab? After the end of DaEŞ, this statement developed in Syria by Mr. Hatibin, what the Minister said: we finished them as Turkish armies. Until then, there was no such sentence. Now, I'll tell you...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0246par0100	Complete your words, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0247par0101	All our allies say that, all our allies say that, not newspaper headlines. They're in NATO records.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0246par0102	Mr. Bak, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0248par0103	I'm telling you data, not memorizing it.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0247par0104	No, I'm doing NATO records. It's in NATO records.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0248par0105	I'm telling you, my dear Idris Baluken asked me here -- I remember very well -- he said that there is over $10 million in trading records on customs doors. What did you trade with ISIS? We're asking again now, why can't we get an answer? With this $10 million, what was the trade made with ISIS? And today, those border crossings are in the hands of the YPG, in the hands of the administration there; the volume of trade is zero. The only way we can answer your conversations is through this much concrete data. It's not what you said, it's what you said, it's what you said, it's what you said, it's what you said, it's what you said, it's what you said, it's what you said, it's what you said, it's
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0249par0106	Thank you. Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0250par0109	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Each party has its own opinion here in the negotiations, but we need to clarify a few things. I'd especially like to start with this issue of DAESS, ISIS, whatever it's called... it's a terrorist organization. The state of the Republic of Turkey has struck a serious blow to this, too. I just said that at the beginning of my speech. This organization that was produced in the lab was created for a purpose. Suddenly in Syria, here in Mosul, the second largest army of Iraq drops its arms and flees; they fall into the hands of the DEAS terrorist organization, and then they destroy the north of Syria. And the next thing we know, who's the best use it's ever been to? It worked for Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and they placed the PKK there. So the PKK and the YPG are basically networked organizations and structures that are run from the same place, run from the same place, channeled in the same way as DAEŞ. There is no difference between them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0251par0114	Yeah, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0250par0115	The goal was to evacuate northern Syria and give it to the PKK. It's a terrorist organization that's been uncovered for this purpose, and most of all, it's in the interests of the PKK, YPG, and its defenders. Therefore, it is useful to analyze the matter correctly once. Now, some of the speakers here say they're very uncomfortable with DAEŞ, but they don't mind PKK, YPG, or YPG. But not on our borders, not on the truth, not on the PKK. I can't say to the PKK, but let them settle down. Now, there's no such understanding, dear friends. They're both terror organizations, and we're going to fight them both. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Don't think about it, don't think about it: the YPG is finished, the YPG is saved. It hasn't, my friends, and it will surely taste the bitter end. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Another question is: Now, you've gone, you've taken over.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0252par0122	Finish your words, Mr. Mush, please.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0250par0123	Mr. President, now, this is the state of the Republic of Turkey, and the orator who just waved a newspaper clipping at me like this, is a citizen of this country.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0253par0124	I didn't.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0250par0125	Now, you've gone, you've taken over. Are you a citizen of another third country? So you went and took over. You are a citizen of this country, a citizen of the Republic of Turkey. If you feed one percent of your love for Kobani to the Republic of Turkey that you will be so foreign to your own country, believe me, everything will be different. But there isn't!
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0254par0127	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0250par0128	Mr. President, I'm tidying up. Look, his letter about Trump was returned to him, and he was told what he needed, so don't worry. So Biden says, for God's sake, Biden, together with the opposition, we will overthrow power. Yeah, we're the ones he's targeting here. I guess we're not the opposition. Others are the opposition. So the man from this Cumhur Alliance, which is now being formed, is expressing his discomfort, and we're going to take him down with opposition." he says. So when we look to the left, you see who the opposition is, and I don't want to express it; it's obvious with whom. Don't worry too much, we've told you what we need.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0254par0131	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0255par0132	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0256par0133	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0254par0134	Mr. Look, if you'll excuse me, there's no bullying.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0256par0135	Sir, I demand a brief word.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0254par0136	Excuse me.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0256par0137	Just for the record, sir.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0257par0138	Let's take a vote, and then...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0256par0139	The Turkish army's struggle with DAEŞ, the struggle with ISIS, has repeatedly been reported to the press by NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg, many times in NATO minutes, at NATO Parliament Assembly meetings. So it's a fact that's been recorded. Everyone knows about the struggle in El Bab, there's a soldier fighting hand-to-hand, there's a Turkish army. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0258par0142	What you said was on the record. Mr. Beştaş, please let's not go any further. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0259par0146	I promise I'll make this quick. As a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, I think Turkey has no business in Syria, and so does our party. Why don't you say, "You are citizens of Turkey?" There's no point in saying, "Why don't you defend it?" I say that both Syria and Afrin and Idlib have no business and Cerablus have no business in Turkey.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0260par0148	Should the PKK have stayed, or should Cerablus have stayed with the PKK?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0259par0149	I reject this policy of war.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0261par0150	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0259par0151	Wait a minute, Mayor...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0262par0152	What's the PKK doing here?
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0261par0153	Friends, Mr. Ironbone, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0259par0154	There's also a memorization, which will never end: our love for Kobani. We will take care of the people of Kobani to the end.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0263par0155	They came here, here.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0259par0156	The inhabitants of Kobani are the citizens of Kobani, where they are owned by Kurdish people, Armenian people, Christians, and Suryani. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Kobani's epic resistance to ISIS has been applauded all over the world, but here they're promoting Kurdish hostility as if it were integrated into terrorism, terrorism, and if there's a Kurd in space, they're declaring their hostility.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0263par0159	Yeah, get over it, get over it, get over it!
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0259par0160	What is wrong with Turkey? This is to support ISIS; this is to stand behind ISIS.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0264par0161	Thank you. Congressmans, talks on the presidential statement have been completed. I will now submit the thesis to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly (2/45) With respect, I would like to submit to you the matter of the agenda of my original Law Proposal under Article 37 of the Civil Code. Dear friends, we're going to have a round of ballots, elections on commissions, a secret vote on the Personal Data Protection Board. Please don't leave the General Assembly. As the bidder, İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu; come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0265par0180	Mr. President, I have made a pledge under Article 37/45 of the Civil Code on the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws in the Purpose of the Facility of Social Peace and Democracy. I salute you all at this hour of the night. It's a 68-point law proposal, so our friends who want to look at it later, but in the end, it's a law proposal that I've been working on for a long time both in terms of social peace and lack of democracy, which I've given and we've talked about, but it's not passed by you. For the sake of re-recording at the beginning of the fourth year of the 27th century, and for those who look forward to the history of this Assembly the day after tomorrow, who has said what and what has contributed. And while I'm being presented, dear friends, since 2002, the foundation of the Justice and Development Party, in the end, a human rights activist, a lawyer, a citizen, and now I'm watching the development of the Justice and Development Party as a politician. You've moved far from 2002 to this time. When you were founded, you really came up with a program in Turkey that advocates democracy, human rights, the rule of law, equality and so on, and you got a lot of support. In your first election, you were alone in Turkey with a 33 per cent vote. The Republican People's Party, which believed in the Justice and Development Party's environment at the time, even though your president was not a member of parliament at the time, was guilty of provoking people to hatred and hostility, but this parliamentary group changed the Constitution and opened up politics for him. The goal was that the Justice and Development Party was in power, perhaps something would be done in this Parliament in Turkey with those values. Yes, at first you worked in this Parliament, we worked in this parliament; in 2004 there were very strict laws in 2005, where the Republican People's Party and the People's Party established a very important will for the European Union, but after 2008, after 2009, you went away from these ideals. Now, in the 18th year of your rule, you turned Turkey into a state of security, you turned it into a state of police, you put dynamite under Turkey's social peace, our social peace did not stay inside and out, Turkey moved away from the principle of peace and peace in the dorm and in the world, so it became a blood pool after 2015. Thus, Turkey has deep issues, and these deep issues are not solved by the understanding of the police state -- just with security understanding -- that you are currently facing. So, once again, from here to you, to your conscience, and to Turkey, for this reason, it's taking Turkey into polarization, hostility, and it's not the right course of action. There is no way for any citizen in Turkey to go out on the street and perform unarmed, nonviolent, in any way. Every day these traumas pile up. Freedom of expression underfoot, thousands of sick prisoners in prisons, thousands of sick prisoners, more than 130,000 KHK people, cannot be judged, cannot be made decisions. So you've become free of these victims, you've removed Turkey from democracy, from the principles of the legal state, you've taken the judiciary into your own hands. As a citizen who's been on trial for 40 years, at the same time, in no time has judgment been part of this much execution, and I'm willing to bet it hasn't been his puppet. You created oligarchs in the palaces of justice, making republican prosecutors oligarchs. Justice doesn't smell like justice in palaces. Once again, justice smells of injustice in your palaces, smells of bribery, smells of corruption, smells of injustice. Therefore, so many possibilities will shoot you the day after tomorrow. Once again, you're signing such big injustices, you're throwing them away because I'm looking at press releases coming your way. Everyone lives in their own world in Turkey. Unfortunately, in Parliament, everyone lives in their own world. Why? You don't see Turkey. So let's get out of here, together, at the beginning of this year of legislature, get away from these security insights, from the understanding of the police state, and together we can turn this great Turkey back into a Turkey with the rule of law, peace, justice. We all have it in our hands, and we can do it. I'm just saying, for the last time...
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0266par0185	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0265par0186	Mr. President Erdogan says that the world is bigger than five. Yes, the world is bigger than five, but Turkey is bigger than one person's rule. Let's not surrender our will to one person. There is Parliament here, by Parliament's will, by pluralism, we can solve the fundamental problems of Turkey. Therefore, on behalf of my party, with historical responsibility, I am fulfilling this responsibility to offer you this offer at the beginning of the year of life. Thank you, and I wish you a good living year.
tbmm-2020-10-06sit05spe0266par0189	[[Applause from CHP rows]] I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't... Unacceptable. Congressmans, we're moving on to the "choice" part of the agenda, and we're going to vote for non-empty memberships in the commissions. Ankara MP Levent Gök has been nominated for 1 membership in the Republican People's Party Group, which is empty in the Constitutional Commission. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Ağrı MP Diriyet Dilan Taşdemir and Elazıg MP Gürsel Erol have been nominated for the 1 membership of the People's Party Group. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Sinop MP Peace Black Sea has been nominated for one member of the People's Party Group, which is available in the Environment Commission. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Van MP Muazzez Orhan Iz and Antalya MP Cetin Budak and Tokat MP Kadim Durmaz were nominated for two members of the People's People's Party Group for the 1 membership that was empty in the Industrial, Trade, Energy, Information and Technology Commission. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Samsun MP Erhan Usta has been nominated for the 1 membership of the Plan and Budget Commission, which is available and falls to the Good PARTY Group. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Gaziantep MP Mehmet Sait Kirazoglu and İstanbul MP Aykut Erdoğdu have been nominated for a membership in the Republican People's Party Group for the 1 member of the Justice and Development Party group. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. İzmir MP Sevda Erdan Kılıç has been nominated as a candidate for the 1 membership of the People's Party Group, which is empty in the Human Rights Review Commission. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. For two members of the Republican People's Party Group, Bursa MP Nurhat Altaca Kayşoglu and İstanbul MP Ahmet Ünal Çiviciçü have been nominated for a free membership in the European Union's Compliance Commission. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Afyonkarahisar MP Burcu Koksal has been nominated for 1 membership in the Republican People's Party Group at the Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Now, in accordance with Article 21 of the Law on Protection of Personal Data, three members will be elected to the Personal Data Protection Board. Members of parliament, under the 21st Amendment to the Protection of Personal Data Act, the political party groups have nominated twice as many as their membership. I'm running the names of candidates shown by political party groups through last name order: Candidates by Justice and Development Party Group: Ummet Artuç, Ayşenur Kurtoğlu. Candidates by the Republican People's Party Group: Tamer Aksoy, Ali Taştan. Candidates shown by Peoples' Democratic Party Group: Bayram Arslan, Abbas Kılıçoğlu The names of the candidates were printed in the form of a unified ballot according to the last name order. As long as there are enough meetings and decisions available, the election will be selected as candidates for the most votes from the Justice and Development Party Group, Republican People's Party Group and Peoples' Democratic Party Group candidate lists. I propose how the vote will be done: the first-place member of the commission will mark the name of the MP, who was named after Zonguldak, starting from Adana to İstanbul, and who was second-placed from İzmir to İzmir. The named MP will be given a sealed joint ballot and envelope. The MP who used the game will throw the envelope containing the ballot into the ballot box placed in front of the Presidential Court's bench. On the united ballot, the Justice and Development Party Group, Republican People's Party Group and Peoples' Democratic Party Group will be marked by a square cross against the names of the candidates. The relevant section of ballots marked by multiple candidates will be invalid. These issues are also listed on the joint ballot as a bottom note. Members of parliament, a five-person collection commission will be determined by drawing a name for the census and transcript of the vote. The members of the draft commission will take their place in the commissions after the vote is completed. Hussein doesn't run away? Here. Orhan Sumer? Here. Salih Cora? Here. Fehmi Albay Özalan? Here. Yilmaz Bronze? Here. Yeah, there's a five-man Commission. I'd like to request that the members of the clerk take their place and the ballots and the envelopes be delivered. We'll start the vote in Adana Province. [[The votes have been collected.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, are there any members who don't use the vote? No. The voting process is complete. Put the ballots away. Members of the Board of Accounts, please take your seats. I'm having them read the names of the members of the Board of Accounts: Hussain Esmaz, Şırnak; Orhan Sumer, Adana; Salih Cora, Tripoli; Yilmaz Turkç, Bartın; Fehmi Albay Özalan, İzmir. [[The votes have been discriminated]] I'm reading the Account Commission's Charter on the election of the Committee for Protection of Personal Data membership: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 338 members have participated in the election for the 338 members of the Republican People's Party Group and Peoples' Democratic Party Group, which will be ejaculated in the Committee for Protection of Personal Data, and the distribution of the votes used has been shown below. It's presented with respect. Hüseyin Don't Run Orhan Sumer Salih Cora Fehmi alpay Özalan Yilmaz junç Justice and Development Party Group Candidate List Ummet Artuç : 8 votes Ayşenur Kurtoglu : 304 votes Republican People's Party Group Candidate List Tamer Aksoy : 305 votes Ali Taştan : 4 votes Peoples' Democratic Party Group Candidate List Bayram Arslan : 307 votes Abbas Kılıçoğlu : 2 votes According to this, Ayşenur Kurtoglu of the Justice and Development Party Group candidate list, Tamer Aksoy of the Republican People's Party Group candidate list, Bayram Arslan of the People's Democratic Party Group candidate list has been selected to join the Committee for Protection of Personal Data. I wish him well. In accordance with the decision taken, it is Wednesday (October 7th 2020) at 14 a.m. to discuss the main number-one presidential and law proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
