tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, I urge you to pay attention to the residence distance under health measures. Members of parliament, there is a request for an off-the-topsy clause in Article 59 of the Civil Code on the risk of a coronavirus epidemic, the current situation and measures taken. I'll grant that request. Later, I will make a promise to political party groups at their request and to the MPs who do not have a group. Twenty minutes to conduct the talks, fifteen minutes for political party groups and five minutes for a member of parliament who does not have a group, under the recommendation of the Council of Counsellor, which was adopted in yesterday's merger. Now, for the sake of the executive, I would like to call Mr. Fahrettin Kocak to the General Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, representatives of our great nation, I give you my regards. For what reason do I stand before you, it is clear that I will not answer any questions. These are the days when national will is absolutely bound to put itself out there. These are the days when differences in thinking and understanding are definitely drawn back in the face of threats. Turkey expects the full power of common will to appear in the High Assembly and on the stage of life. In the terms of the threat we face, all energy must be directed towards the threat itself. Every battle must be reduced from risk, and every word must be a step towards success. The only thing about racing and superiority is the contribution to the solution. We need to think of things that aren't thought up, find things that aren't calculated. Our nation expects constructive, creative contributions from its elite minds, strategic intellectual representatives. The Supreme Assembly has faced many critical events throughout its history, and it has never been beyond the determination I describe; it has provided all the support it takes for my professionals to deal with the problem in the field. The will of the House, its psychology, its constructive attitude, its determination to resist and succeed is many times greater. Here today, after all the talks, the summary sentence will be a promising, energy-filled sentence. As core-grown politicians, you're very well versed in community psychology. The first requirement for combat in a risk environment that threatens individuals directly is success, motivation. I see each of my friends as the leader of this principle in their own environment. Now I'd like to remind you of a short history of the new coronavirus, Covid-19. This will help us to better assess the progress of events in our country. On December 31, 2019, the World Health Organization announced the Chinese Country Office in Wuhan, China, because of an unknown case of pneumonia. On January 7, 2020, the factor was described as a new coronavirus, which had never been identified in humans. Later, the name of this new disease was accepted as "Covid-19. " Patients found fever, respiratory distress, and radiologically consistent with pneumonia in both lungs. The deaths were usually carried out in individuals of advanced age or with a systemic disease associated with hypertension, diabetes, cardiothoracic disease, cancer, chronic lung disease. In the coming days, more and more countries reported cases. In late February, the countries of domestic contamination began to emerge. As of March 2020, the speed of the outbreak in China slowed, while cases of Covid-19 in Iran, South Korea and Italy increased rapidly and related deaths. The center of the outbreak has shifted to Europe. On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared a pandemic that affected the entire world and caused the loss of life. The disease is mainly transmitted through the droplets. In addition, it is transmitted by sick individuals to cough, sneeze, droplets that they release into the mucosa of the mouth, nose, and eye after contact with other people's hands. The incubation period has been observed as a minimum of two days, 14 days maximum, five or six days average. The duration of the virus' transmission is not known for certain. It's believed that it began a day or two before the symptomatic period and ended with the loss of symptoms. The common symptoms of infection are fever, cough, and respiratory distress; more serious cases include pneumonia, acute respiratory infection, kidney failure, and even death. The death rate was 11 per cent in the SARS epidemic, between 35 per cent and 50 per cent in the MERS epidemic, while according to the World Health Organization's Covid-19 report on the People's Republic of China, the death rate was 3.8 per cent. In patients who fit the description of Covid-19 cases, respiratory path samples are studied in reference labs and are considered in labs serving 16 provinces. Our number of labs will soon be up to 36 put together in 25 provinces. As of today, I'd like to say that you've started working at 18 centers with two foundation colleges involved. From January 10th, when the virus was announced to the world, our country acted fast and active, ahead of events. We knew that it was vital to move quickly as a country with information about the rate and effects of the SARS and MERS diseases that have occurred before and caused by viruses from the same group. We took precautionary measures early on from risk. From the first day of the process, I'd like to say that it's a big and important part of this success that Mr. President's precision and close surveillance and that the Science Council and our Ministry's proposals are quickly, quickly taking decisions ahead of it. We started by forming the coronavirus Science Board. Most of our measures have been implemented before the DSÖ declaration of necessity. We analyzed the data from all over the world. While Europe and America hadn't even realized it, the first guidance preparations for the disease began in our country, and the Science Council quickly published this guide. As soon as it was discovered that the disease had spread from China to the world, the flights from there were covered. Algorithms for measures to be developed in the event of the outbreak coming to our country have begun. On January 31st, when the World Health Organization declared a public health emergency, we began to complete our preparations for the epidemic with a precognitive understanding of the reality of the situation. We have prohibited flights to countries where the virus has been seen. We've closed our black border doors, seeing that our border neighbors are vulnerable to fighting the virus. We have accepted our citizens in our country with health checks and 14 days of isolation. Meanwhile, we've begun operations to evacuate our citizens in the countries where we've imposed a ban on flights and border closing. Our first operation, as you may recall, was intended for our citizens in Wuhan City, the source of the outbreak. As you know, on March 11th, the incident was described as the pandemic. That was the logic of our struggle from the beginning. The steps were announced to our public institutions. We've come to the conclusion of the mistakes made by countries where the virus is rapidly spreading, we've modeled the successful samples. Iran has caused the virus to spread throughout the country by not insulating the focused cases in the city of Kum and Meshhed. Italy allowed Chinese people to roam the country free, causing the outbreak to spread throughout Europe. I also want to graph that it is now widely seen in all European countries, and it shows itself with a very serious output in the first two or three weeks after being seen in these European countries. There's some other information I'd like to give you: we've been able to risk all international flights and control 4 million 603,000 passengers using thermal cameras in the air squares. At sea entry points, the number of passengers who have been given thermal scans has been 15,200. 1.103 of the 189,000 passengers under thermal camera control at our black border gates were taken into custody at the field hospitals where we established 1,103. 189 people were transferred to the hospital. We quickly decided that when our citizens who have returned from Umre were first isolated in their homes with a medical examination, the height of the recent number was seen positive in one case, and especially in one case coming from Umre, our citizens who will come from night care are no longer in their homes, but will be isolated in single rooms in empty student dorms -- after the time has been given to them. Due to the fact that the ban on flight covers almost all of Europe, we also bring our citizens who are here for various reasons, and again, we allow them to spend 14 days in isolation in the dorms under observation. We're still banning 20 countries in total. In the fight against Covid-19 diseases and similar pandemics, which have become the most vital agenda in the world, there are two points that the World Health Organization insists on, almost as a guarantee. These two elements are a comprehensive health system, and a strong leadership that comes with it. Our nation has complete faith that our government has these two vital powers.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0003par0021	Where is it, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0002par0022	Unfortunately, we also observe that there are some who are aiming to weaken our citizen's common sense and cause panic. Infidel news, some unsubstantiated claims on social media are completely outside the bounds of morality. Please help us fight them. People will trust their representatives. And now I'd like to talk about the condition of our hospitals, our health infrastructure. We have a total capacity of 25,466 adults in intensive care, with an advanced level of 13.211, where the public and private sector will serve together if the disease spreads in our country and becomes an epidemic. Despite the city hospitals that we've opened recently, our number of beds is below the European and OECD averages, and there are 28 beds to 10,000 people; the OECD average is 40. We're lucky with the ICU bed count. In Germany, there are 29 in Germany, 13 in Italy, 12 in intensive care deposits in France, and 40 in our country, including 100,000 in adult and child intensive care. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] A total of 99,797 patients in our hospitals are eligible to be insulated or used as an ICU bed if necessary. Our city hospitals have contributed greatly to this. We're ready for possible bad scenarios in terms of physics and technological infrastructure. In the event of our citizens' hesitations about the disease and complaints arise, we have activated 184 SABIM Corona Advice Line to direct them and provide some services if necessary. 184 SABIM also has a audio broadcast system. 500 of our call staff and 100 of our medical staff work here. And I want to say that the algorithm here is also an algorithm developed by our Science Board. We've developed our own diagnostic kit to give us reliable and quick results in the diagnosis of the disease. We received and ordered 500,000 diagnostic kits from the U.S.A. The local diagnostic kit, used in our lab for 40 days, was soon sought out and sold to other countries in this way. I told you that our 18 labs are being diagnosed today in different provinces, including seven in Istanbul. Soon we'll be able to run tests in almost every major city. Also, in the next couple of days in particular, the fast recognition kit will be activated, which we see is likely to happen tomorrow morning. As of this morning, I'd like to confirm in our reference lab that we're planning to get shipped into the cargo today and give you good news that you'll be back tomorrow. So far, as of now, we've run over 10,000 tests, but in the coming days, we think that our test numbers are going to go up a lot, because we're looking at cases specifically. We do extensive field research to study and study the infectiousness we call "filmation." So I want to make it very clear that these scans are going to be very concentrated in the coming days, and we want to be able to make at least 10 or 15,000 per day on the target. Let me give you another example: As of March 1st, we've seen the number of people from abroad in particular, 372,000 people from today. We've sent messages to each of these 372,000 people with addresses and phone information, and we've also been tracking them through family physicians by dropping each one to family physicians. I want to tell you specifically that 132,000 family physicians have been scanned in just one day. From here, I'd like to thank all of our employees, especially our family physicians, for their contribution. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Even though there are reference hospitals to follow patients at first, now that we're in a dynamic state of mind, we're constantly changing our strategy to the Science Council's recommendation, and now we've come up with a new plan in a way that every hospital can accept patients. We've made some changes to the working arrangements of medical personnel working under very intense conditions and at risk, and we've started taking measures to protect our staff from risk. We deliver protective supplies to all our public hospitals, including our university hospitals. We sent 50,000 masks to each of our six universities two days ago in the middle of the night without their demands. In the process, health care personnel are the ones who require direct contact with patients by facing risks. In all parts of society, risk-free groups can use leave, while our medical staff has to work harder, and we have to cancel the permits. The risk of both the workload and the exposure of our medical staff has increased. I hope that in this struggle, we will make sure that our health staff, who have made a great sacrifice, recognizes the importance of our community in a way that is beyond any doubt. This is our common responsibility, almost essential to the success of the struggle. Our health workers, each of them as a dedicated and selfless soldier, have to be facilitated and assured, and a motivation only for the feelings of sacrifice is inadequate. I know where all of our medical staff, especially doctors, is in our nation's best interest in the reputation they deserve for fighting in situations like this. I have some suggestions for our High Council, and I believe the sensitivity will be high. Honourable members of the High Assembly, there are criticisms that before the Pandem, there are not sufficient measures or unnecessary bans. As far as I'm concerned, Turkey has found the most rational middle road and has taken the leading precautions. The way pandemics bring down a society is not just through health, but the irrational measures against pandemics can also bring down society through the economy. Therefore, yesterday's statements from Mr. President are very clear evidence that the case has been handled in fullness. Of course, we're going through critical days, critical days can't be overcome by the usual measures, but life is a work of rationality, in a way, a collection of homework; happiness and health, I think, are directly related to responsibility. I thank the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Presidents of the political party, the Deputy Leaders of the Group of our parties, and our MPs, who fully support our fight against the Coronavirus. To our policy to reduce contact as much as possible, especially to the Speaker of Parliament, to decide not to receive visitors by the end of March, I would like to express my special gratitude to Mr. Presidents of our political parties, whose group cancels the group meetings. And I must say, I find the decision to postpone the county, county, and general congress very valuable. At the point of public information, the rhetoric and actions of the leaders of opinion are of great importance. In this framework, we also view our valued MPs as key leaders of opinion. We care deeply about their warning statements and behavior both in the House and in their own election circles. I would like to express in particular that this kind of behavior in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a great morale for us and the dedicated health workers in our fight against the coronavirus. I personally feel a great responsibility to our health care staff as well as to my responsibility to our nation. Our success so far is an operational success as well as a strategic success. We need a lot more than that. I've tried to brief you on our national struggle against Coronavirus. I'd like to thank our heroes in this struggle in your presence. I'd like a round of applause for them. (Applause) But not just applause. I salute our High Council.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0004par0040	Now, I'm going to make a promise to the representatives of the political party group who are demanding a word. It belongs to Izmir MP Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu on behalf of the PARTI Group. Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0005par0044	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our High Council with respect, love and health. Also, I'd like to begin by expressing my satisfaction that our Minister of Health, along with the Ministry of Health bureaucrats, is among us to inform the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. As it is known, more than 200,000 people have been infected in 156 countries since the day the coronavirus emerged in Wuhan, China, and thousands have lost their lives due to various health problems caused by the coronavirus, particularly respiratory failure. As you may recall, as the GOOD PARTY, we suggested that China would be a pandemic of this disease in Wuhan, which spread to other countries, and that Turkey should take urgent measures on January 30, 2020. With globalization, at such a time as transportation technologies and density have increased, no country has ever been able to avoid the risk of an airborne virus from human to human. Our party saw the risk of an epidemic we face by the country months ago and made the necessary attempts to bring it to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Unfortunately, a possible crisis was ignored, and our motion in this direction was rejected with a partisan understanding. At the point where we are today, as we warned in January, this epidemic began in Asia, causing extraordinary conditions to arise in our country along with the rest of the world. From this moment on, our Minister of Health has had good intentions, but these efforts have been inadequate. I wish our motion had been taken into consideration at the time and had not been acted on by political opinions, but we had not encountered such a picture today. Precious lawmakers, we have witnessed plagues in many countries. Our country is one of the most recent countries the epidemic has reached. Unfortunately, I'd also like to point out that we can't turn this situation into an advantage. If our initial research motion had not been rejected by the fatalist approach of the EC PARTY, the sacrifice of the Minister of Health today would not have been enough, so he would have found support from politics and Parliament. Unfortunately, this attitude of the ruling party has also come to our citizens, and some of our citizens will be fine with me. With their understanding, they do not comprehend the seriousness of the epidemic. For example, in Iran, the epidemic has been masked, hidden from public opinion, but information has spread that there have been cases in January. However, what did we do as Turkey? Why did we wait until the end of February to close our borders? When the virus spread across Europe, what did we expect to cancel the flights? Why did it take so long to recognize the dangers that would arise from the absence of teaching, from the crowds of our mosques? What was the guarantee that the plague would not spread to our country? We still don't know and we don't know what's expected to be safe. Dear lawmakers, another priority to be brought to the attention when this health crisis is over is the state of city hospitals. The question is, are city hospitals an appropriate model for epidemics such as coronavirus? Today, when we look at Italy, we see that hospitals that fight the coronavirus leave hospitals that treat other diseases. I mean, infected people are being treated in different environments with patients with other health problems, which means that, as in our city hospitals, the collection of health institutions in one center, especially in cases of epidemics, is causing treatments to fail. So, at this point today, the city hospitals, which Mr. President calls my dream, stand a major obstacle to the battle against the coronavirus. It has to be known that when the time comes, we will ask these questions and repeat them, we will surely discuss their answers, and we will follow the necessary measures in advance. What we're talking about here today is the immediate needs and measures that our nation will need in the coming process. At the very beginning of these measures is the creation of the carrier registration system. In the future, when the virus increases its tendency to spread, it is extremely important to have a link map in the hands of the state. It is known that our intensive care beds, which we will need a great deal in the future, are extremely limited. According to the latest data, the number of adult intensive care patients is estimated to be around 24,000 in Turkey. Respected lawmakers, this number is not enough for the pandemic threat we face. We have to increase the number of intensive care units quickly so we can get out of the plague disaster with minimal casualties. Again, it turns out that our labs were also lacking numbers and capacities due to dense flow of samples during the time of the pandemic. A lot of the data that's been introduced shows that our test kit numbers are also inadequate. AS A GOOD PARTY, I'd like to express that we're going to help and contribute to the immediate construction of our lab number, our bed capacity, and our test kit to increase our number. Data that South Korea has conducted more than 280,000 studies so far has been presented to the public in the world. Dear lawmakers, the number of tests we conducted remained around 8,000. This figure also indicates that we have done very few tests around the world. There are also serious concerns in public and in our country that there are not enough tests and that there are not transparent and realistic information about the results of the tests. Fast, transparent, and frequent information is also needed to prevent panic from giving our citizens a chance to speculate on social media. Only through social isolation is it possible to prevent the spread of the Corona virus. The decision of our state mechanism to shut down communities for the facility of social isolation is the right decision for public health. But it has to be known that it is not right to view the problems caused by this epidemic as just health problems. The support package announced yesterday by Mr. President Erdogan has been unaccounted for. Because it is not possible to understand how it is possible to delay tax payments instead of supporting staff and rent costs from closed shops or businesses whose jobs have been reduced. The current businesses have fallen into turnovers and have trouble with liquidity, and it is evident that unemployment cannot be avoided unless it is immediately supported for rent and staff expenses. In addition, taxes of the February and March period, which began the recession, must be postponed. We simply can't support you, but we'll help you get loans from banks. According to BDK data, at the end of 2019, a total of 150 billion dollars is already under surveillance. So there's no logical explanation for why citizens could not pay back the loans they received before the coronavirus disaster, but they would be rerouted back to banks. The burdens of new loans are not meaningful or appropriate, when we can reduce the burdens of our citizens who have been oppressed under their loans. On the other hand, from 80 percent to 90 per cent of loanable housing for less than 500,000 Turkish liras would be the answer to the problems of which worker is laid off, and which employer will have a problem with which employer can't even pay? The citizen once expected solutions to his own problems, but you're still concerned about how to contribute to the construction industry and how to make money. Businesses can't make a profit, employees lose their jobs, and you say we made it easy for you to buy these people a house. Many countries have announced the package of economic measures against this virus. I wish you'd looked into it a little bit, all of them, at the base, have looked into whether they're going to suffer any losses about all the operating businesses, and they've developed measures to eliminate the damage. The package the European countries announced was more than 10 per cent of the GDP, while the package we released was 2 per cent of our illegal domestic product. The majority of this $100 billion is given to the citizens in a way that gives up future revenues. There are no grants and no similar supports because our safe is empty, no spare whites, you used them all and blew them away; you made the state of the Republic of Turkey look like a hole in the pocket, a hole in the pocket. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] While citizens are thinking about how to fight unemployment, poverty, do-and-do companies sit back and count their guarantee fees. The government, which can guarantee wages for bridges, highways, and airports with a do-it-yourself model, cannot guarantee its citizens wages or gains in such a difficult process. As I've just stated, since you've spent everything you've got, today, instead of a real support package, you're offering a loan package that's only facilitated. We warn you, the citizen needs job security and income, not new loans. You must take new economic measures that can be achieved immediately, because there is no measure in this package to remove the cares of the tradesman, there is no solution to prevent the employee's fear of unemployment, and there is no measure to save the employer from bankruptcy. However, these are the parts of the economy that are really oppressed in today's situation because inflation is back in double digits, unemployment is breaking new records every month, foreign debt is taking over, treasure is being transferred to construction projects. There's waste and corruption in every aspect of the economy administration. In short, today, it's not the corona virus that sinks the Turkish economy, it's the virus of corruption and waste. You also infected this country in its own power. The head of the future process -- even though we are run by the presidential government system -- is the Ministry of Health and Health. AS A GOOD PARTY, we hope that all ministries will co-operate and co-ordinate the state policy in this process. In the process, our state policy should be shaped by the creation of economic conditions that allow people to stay at home. It is also the responsibility of our state to take any kind of economic measures, such as rehabilitation of our entire economic order that has been broken in the global pandemic process, support of all social groups with economic packages and delaying their debt. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0006par0067	Go ahead and finish it.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0005par0068	Dear lawmakers, state policy requires seriousness. Since I don't have time, I'll continue by missing part of my speech. As our Ministry of Health, I declare to the public that we will stand behind every righteous step taken by every step taken by the Ministry of Health, that we will help the citizens to announce all the practices of Mr. Fahrettin Koca, which will set up a barrier in front of the disaster, and that we will make the mistakes that we have seen not with pure opposition, but only for the health of 83 million of our citizens. The whole world is in a war against the coronavirus, and unfortunately, we are now in it. We truly believe that we will win this war with the nation's struggle. But no war can be won by panic and fear. On the one hand, we'll keep the measures and precautions to the top, but on the other hand, we'll talk about it and we'll get through it with courage and patience. On these occasions, I invite our citizens to heed the warnings, to set an example for all our politicians and bureaucrats, especially you, and to serve as pioneers in measures. I salute the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0007par0075	Mr. President, may I have my word for a moment?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0008par0076	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0007par0079	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Today we're discussing something very important, something the world is discussing. In the name of executives, Mr. Secretary has given us extensive information. And all of our parties are doing their evaluations on this, so that the administration can evaluate the concrete proposals that have been set up, and if there's an extra suggestion, they'll consider them. But I'd like to say that I don't find what the speaker says every day very elegant, Mr. President, is saying when it's not on the agenda, but it's a totalistic, generalistic accusation that people never take credit for. In a collective statement, there has been corruption, and this is what happened. I want to express to you that both public opinion and public opinion have no credibility, and that if there is concrete evidence, information, documents, they must be evaluated by the courts, by the prosecutor. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0009par0082	He understands the public!
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0010par0083	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0007par0084	I didn't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0010par0085	No, of course you didn't, why would you?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0007par0086	You guys pick on me, we don't pick on you, we always do.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0010par0087	I don't pick on anyone, I don't make a habit of it, but I don't just try to develop a defense mechanism.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0011par0088	Mr. Dervisoglu, come in.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0010par0090	Now, we have to generalize because we're talking about something specific, but we have to take it from a wholesaler perspective. If I was worried about trying to take political advantage of the job, I'd be in front of the Supreme Assembly in a whole new way of speaking. So we don't have to answer everything from where we sit. After I give my speech, your party group's spokesman will say what needs to be said, and then if there's a negotiation, we'll do it mutually. After each speech, if we continue to argue as Group Vice Presidents, it goes against the working traditions of the High Assembly. I offer the importance and care of this matter to the High Council's discretion, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0012par0091	If you want me to stand up and not sit down, Mr. President, it's clear what I'm saying.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0010par0092	I'm saying you don't need to answer every word, sir, the bench is there, please.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0012par0093	That's not what I'm trying to say.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0013par0094	I don't think there's any need for that.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0014par0095	Congressmans, I also wanted to make a statement as if it would be more useful if you would do the greeting when the session is over, in order to make sure that Mr. Minister is oratory, or our oratories are maximumly compliant. And now on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Heromarash MP Sefer Aycan. Here you go, Mr. Aycan.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0015par0102	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our National Movement Party Group. I salute you. Yeah, we're having a pandemic, a new coronavirus pandemic. The Pandemic is a case of a disease on several continents, and explaining pandemics is the work of the World Health Organization, and the World Health Organization has stated that we are experiencing a pandemic by making a statement. Yeah, we're living in a pandemic, we're living in a coronavirus pandemic. This affected about 150 countries around the world and affected our country. It's an epidemic. The epidemic is that a disease is statistically seen more than expected. A disease that has never been seen has become visible, and statistically, its number has increased, and there has been an epidemic. It's a contagious disease, and a contagious disease is a social problem caused by microorganism from the source, or by the fact that its toxins are passed on to a solid person, so the infectious disease is not an individual disease. For him, it can't be looked at in terms of individual rights and law. This is a social problem. At the time, the Constitutional Court also misinterpreted it, and people are now misreading it. For example, I do not comply with the measures taken. He says that this is not the right situation. The infectious disease is a social problem, and when an infectious disease occurs, what to do, how to behave is already in our laws. In 1930, the Law on Public Health states how to deal with an infectious disease. For example, if you have cancer, I am not being treated. You can say, "You don't go to health care and you don't get treatment, but if you have an infectious disease, I'm not being treated." You can't say, "I'm not being treated." You can't say, "I'm not being treated." You can't say, "I'm not being treated." This is a crime against the law and it is under the authority of the Ministry of Health to take any measures concerning it. The public law says that when an epidemic of infectious diseases arises, the Ministry of Health takes every precaution and all administrative agencies comply with these decisions, and those who disobey them are against the law and have committed crimes. I especially want to point out: Quarantine practice, observation practice is a necessary and necessary situation for everyone at this time. There's no distinction here. To separate that is to commit a crime, to risk public health. Now, we're in a case of infectious disease, yes, he came to our country. It would have been nice if he hadn't, but he did, and his future is expected because respiratory infections show a very rapid spread. There's always been a pandemic risk, and it's happening now. Now, I don't find speculation very accurate here either. You didn't take precautions on the way here. It's a bit unconscionable. What could we do? There have already been measures such as banning, blocking, restricting entry. The source came out of China, China. Now, we had to prevent a case from entering here, and we had to take precautions in that direction. The Ministry of Health can't do it on its own, just shut the doors. There are international contracts about this, there are rules set by the World Health Organization. The World Health Organization cannot prevent a country from entering or taking its own citizens or citizens abroad without making a statement about a pandemic, and this has legal dimensions. So we had to take our own citizens from abroad. What could we do? What was to be done was to observe everything that was coming, and during the longest incubation, you had to observe it for 14 days; that's what the Ministry of Health did. If there's a person who's missed it, who's neglected it, it's not the Department of Health's fault, it's the people's fault. Now, it's not right to object to this process, the observation process -- as I just said -- it's not right. This is an obligation not only to himself but also to the community, and if it does not, it is a crime, it is a violation of the law, and it must be done. What could be done? Before an epidemic breaks out, the most important thing to do to protect healthy people is to immunize infectious diseases for airborne diseases. The vaccine is usually a practice that protects close to 100 percent. But now that the vaccine has not been developed, a new factor is a new species, so it has no vaccine at the moment. When we follow the studies, the vaccine studies appear to be failing. It seems we're still not scientifically successful in detecting and separating the antigen, which is the primary reaction. Antibody can be given, medically known as hyperimmunglobulin, species-specific antibodies, which we don't have, so we don't have a very effective way of protecting people because we don't have the antibodies and we don't have the vaccine. The vaccine is a very important issue, and I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words about the vaccine: we need to produce a vaccine. I'm concerned about vaccine development; it's important to observe that countries approach it with a monopolyal approach when trying to produce vaccines from one side, and rather than collaborating in creating vaccines, they're trying to see it as a strategic product. It is illegal for the United States to offer money to attract vaccine production in Germany. While countries should be cooperating with one another at this time, the reality of the situation is that they have entered into future business plans or entered into strategic plans. The vaccine is a strategic product, we need to do our own vaccine work. We're scientifically capable of producing vaccines, as long as they're available. In Turkey, the medical people in our country, microbiologists, are capable of producing vaccines, but I am stressing once again the necessity of creating appropriate infrastructure and resources: we need to do what we can and we need to create vaccines. I hope this pandemic comes and goes, but there's gonna be other outbreaks tomorrow, and it's natural to come out. So, in order to be prepared for situations like this, we need to produce our vaccine. On this occasion, infections that are added to this infection are what we call a seconder infection, pneumonia, chronic bronchitis, existing infrastructure, ground. Now, let's at least get our other vaccines done for him at this time. The enhanced vaccine rejection is a very dangerous situation. On this occasion, I warn the parents, I warn our elders that pneumonia vaccines, hemophiluenza vaccines, measles vaccines, are important to prevent infections that will be added to the respiratory pathway. We're in the wrong of a vaccine rejection. I hereby warn the families to give our children and risk groups their shots to our elders. Other than that, yes, the infection factor came from the outside. The most important thing to do here is to separate and treat people who are sick. For that, our Ministry of Health says he's preparing the necessary hospitals, and we're treating these people in these hospitals. There's nothing wrong with curative medicine. Trust the Turkish physicians, and Ataturk trusted them. They're physicians to be trusted, Turkish physicians, who are scientifically capable of that, and they're equipped to do so. Here, the other part is the observation of people who are in contact. This is also very important for our own health. Closing schools is a decision made in such situations, but it is necessary that children do not go out to be effective in closing schools. If you've shut down the school and these people are out there, there's no point in shutting down the school. For him, everyone must follow these precautions. We must perform social isolation. Then the decisions made by the Ministry of Health are useful; the price we pay means something, and then there's a consequence. For that, I invite everyone to follow these decisions once again. There's no use speculating here. If you see a flaw, the Ministry of Health has lines, you call them, you report them, but there's no use in creating prejudices over social media, spreading rumors, and seeing the health department incomplete, blaming the Ministry of Health. It's a very dangerous thing. Don't panic. Yeah, well, let's take precautions, be vigilant, but there's no point in panicking. Instead of gossiping, watch your own behavior. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Look, for example, if you're going to do business, if you're going to do something right, quit smoking, and quit smoking if you want to avoid lung disease. (MHP and AK PARTY) 300 people die a day, 110,000 people die a year in Turkey from smoking-related diseases. The number of people who died from the Corona virus is two, but 300 people die from cigarettes every day. If you care deeply about your health, quit smoking as of today. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We don't know the number of people who died in Turkey with other seasonal flu, influenza, but 2.250 deaths per day in Turkey, 850 per year in Turkey. Of course, no one dies, but that's part of life. We have to take precautions, we have to take precautions, there's no need to make a fuss, there's no point. Meanwhile, we thank the Minister, the Ministry of Health and the entire health department for what they've done and what they're going to do. We also support the decisions made by our government, of course they may be lacking, and we believe that in time you will take the necessary measures. But I'd like to say a few more words from the Ministry of Health. Trust our health department, there are teams out there that may not be very visible, but are following the world, following it. Maybe there's a directorate called the Health Department of Borders and Coasts that you've never heard of, and the Office of Health of Borders and Coasts is there to prevent infectious diseases from entering our country from abroad. He monitors every break-in, every break-in, but he does it on the basis of the World Health Organization's information. The Ministry of Health has the Office of Infectious Diseases, and the Office of Diseases of Infected Diseases is a filament, so it looks for resources, tracks infections, creates infection curves. So you have to trust the Health Department, the Minister and all the medics. These people did not wrong bad people, they wronged them as a society. This nation should not be dragged into the midst of a mistake, such as confronting physicians and other health workers in the first place. Doctors aren't bad people, they're good people, they're selfless people. I don't know if you've ever lived, but have you been up all night with your child? If you stay awake one day, you can't even stand your own child, we're asleep. You complain all the time, but a medic comes in, and he's on a child's watch until morning, with a pneumonia, with an influenza, with an influenza child or with an old man. It'll remove her lungs, intubate her, absorb her, so she'll clean her insides, knowing that she's infected with it. For him, medical personnel are actually invisible heroes, always working like this, always like this. That's why we thank all the medical staff.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0016par0120	Go ahead, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0015par0121	Paramedics are about a million people with university employees, but there are 620,000 medical staff outside. Mr. Secretary, as many staff as you need, 620,000 medical personnel are waiting for the appointment, ready for the post at any moment, and waiting for the job with or with your ad or with the staff. Despite all the negatives and bad circumstances, these medical staff are waiting for the appointment today, and all medical personnel are available at any time. Other than that, medical personnel don't think much of their own negativity. He doesn't take much care of himself, but we need to take care of these people. We need to complete their masks, their needs, gloves, medical equipment. They don't even think about themselves, we've been through this, but we need to help them because they need to live so citizens can live, people can live. And in that sense, we expect all assistance to be given to the health department, and we expect it from our government. The health department is already doing its job, and it doesn't expect anything extra, so it doesn't have to worry about money. It's wrong to see physicians as moneymakers. They are ready to do their job in every negative way. There is no need to appreciate it, but as long as we do not wrong them, and do not abuse them, they continue to do their duty. Now, of course, there are certain demands coming in, but I don't care much about the injustices in this return capital, about not being paid. The physicians will do their duty no matter what, and they will continue to do it. Hopefully, we'll get through this plague together, and we'll beat it together. As long as we don't get down, don't get upset, let's keep fighting, I wish you all a healthy, happy day. Thank you. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0017par0126	Batman MP Mehmet Rüç Tiryaki on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Tiryaki.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0018par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I welcome you and wish you all the best. Yes, Mr. Secretary gets in front of the cameras every day at midnight, throws away the data from the Ministry, works day and night, and it's in his eyes, no doubt. Health workers work day and night, and we can't pay them what we want. My only wish is to prepare an environment that will allow them to work without breaking them, spilling them, lowering their work motivations. Why am I saying this at the beginning of my conversation? What happened yesterday at Ankara University Medical School has made us all very sad. We saw that a physician was forced to apologize for a statement that he informed his colleagues of, and this apology was shared with the university administration shamelessly, with millions. I'm saying if the ministry doesn't create an environment where the administrators of health care institutions can freely express the opinion of academics, if it offends only those who share their thoughts with their colleagues in this way, then our work is really difficult. Mr. President, our esteemed deputies, Mr. Pervin Buldan and Mr. Mithat Sancar, our co-Chairs, have expressed that we can only overcome these days in solidarity; our Centre for Crisis Co-ordination has announced the package of measures that must be taken regarding the outbreak of the coronavirus. In this package, there were suggestions for health in city hospitals, municipal facilities, public institutions, quarantine, summary. In this package, explained by our co-Chairs, there were suggestions for the conditions of prisons and prisons, especially in the condition of elderly, sick, children. There were proposals for economics and social space, particularly banning layoffs, stopping rent payments, delaying loan payments. And finally, what needed to be done against pandemics, especially the coronavirus, was legal regulations, what we had to do with the common mind. For three days we've been reviewing the government's fight against the coronavirus at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; we support their right approach, we represent the wrong and incomplete ones. Our biggest criticism is that one person and the representatives of a party around him pretend they don't exist. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is practically working. As opposition parties, we submitted motions for the establishment of the research commission yesterday and the previous day, all of our proposals were rejected. As the Justice and Development Party, we said to support this motion, but you rejected it, and you ignored our proposal. The parliament has a speciality commission; the Health, Family, Labor and Social Affairs Commission, but this Commission has not met, has not taken responsibility, has not listened to political parties, has not listened to democratic mass organisations, has not listened to the unions and rooms, just like your government. We say the measures taken because of the Coronavirus have economic and social consequences of measures that need to be taken. The Plan and Budget Commission petitioned our fellow lawmakers to head the Commission to meet for this purpose, but the Plan and Budget Commission did not meet for that purpose. Type D, Type E, Type F, semi-open, women, children... there are dozens of types of prisons and over 250,000 prisoners in this prison, they have families. To convene the Parliament's Human Rights Review Commission... Everyone thinks there are measures to be taken. We've petitioned for the Assembly's Human Rights Review Commission to meet, and the Parliamentary Committee for Human Rights Review has not been convened. That's what we mean when we say Turkey's Grand National Assembly is in shape. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has no responsibility for the Coronavirus epidemic, and it seems that it does not need to do anything. We need a common mind. I told you yesterday, Turkey is bigger than 1. Turkey is much bigger than the Justice and Development Party. A common mind will also make everyone part of this struggle. However, the government is shy about fighting a common mind. We have reason to believe that the Ministry of Health has not met with organised unions, rooms and trade organisations in the healthcare sector, and has not cooperated in this matter. I hope this hearing isn't real. Mr. Secretary, you explain the number of cases every night, but you don't explain the number of tests you've done. This is the first time we've heard the test count here today. In a few cities, not in a few places; we need to take steps that will allow these tests to be conducted in every neighborhood and every home, if possible. Because testing is exactly what we're going through. As a matter of fact, countries like South Korea, Singapore, and Hong Kong, which are most successful in fighting Coronavirus, have been able to prevent it by actively communicating and day-to-day scans, but as a fellow member of the Science Board said, we have already passed Hong Kong, Singapore and South Korea, let's hope we don't become Italy. Mr. Secretary, yesterday you announced the number of patients was 198. What cities do these patients live in, and why does the government not explain it? Each country, however, explains its number of cases, and governments are taking measures and other decisions, such as closing borders, stopping flights. Shouldn't such measures be taken for our cities? You just said, if the city of Sand in Iran had been quarantined, perhaps the number of cases would not have become so common in Iran. Why don't you explain how many cases there are in our own country when you accuse Iran of not quarantined the city of Kum? Mr. Secretary, there are health workers who have been discharged or not appointed under the State of Emergency law. We've all learned that an academic with a Ph.D. thesis on coronavirus was also discharged by the State of Emergency by order of the law. I don't know if it's true or not, but social media has this friend's name, last name, and information. After the State of Emergency announcement, why don't you take on the health workers who have been declared untraceable or acquitted? Don't you know that when the plague grows exponentially, health care workers with health training will need a lot more? Please hire health workers who have been acquitted without delay, who have been granted an acquittal, who have not been appointed, so that you can conduct a better fight with the coronavirus. We argue that working parents who have children should be given child-paid leave in a transformation. This should be applied not only to the public, but also to the private sector. City hospitals must be nationalized immediately. Hospitals that have been shut down because of the establishment of city hospitals must immediately be converted to a quarantine hospital, preventing patients and other patients from affecting each other. You opened city hospitals and closed other hospitals. Fortunately, you hadn't destroyed these hospitals yet. As a matter of fact, that's what you've used the intelligence of Tahir Burak Hospital for. Ankara is the only number of hospitals, there is the higher residency hospital, there is the Sami Nation Children's Hospital; you can organise these hospitals as quarantine hospitals. I think it's a very important indicator that city hospital policy is failing.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0019par0141	I think the opposite.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0018par0142	No doubt, private health institutions and institutions must also take responsibility for this matter. The Ministry of Health must take measures to protect the health of health workers. Of course, the Ministry of Health is taking a series of precautions, and we're not saying that they're not taking any precautions, but as far as we can tell, there's not enough material being distributed to medical personnel in hospitals; there's trouble with masks, there's problems with aprons, there's trouble with gloves, and we're observing that. Of course, medical personnel don't work overtime for the fee, but an additional fee must be paid to encourage extra-employees who work day and night, at least that's the contribution we can make to health workers. Quarantine procedures must be established in order to be conducted in good health. Student dorms were the first place to come to mind, so we don't think it's wrong. It's just that the lack here was that the dorms weren't prepared for it. Tomorrow, the number of quarantines could increase. This must be taken especially in order to use hotels in the Aegean, Mediterranean, and empty buildings in large unused cities as quarantine centers. If necessary, prefabricate quarantine centers must be set up. The centre of politics must immediately abandon the arms policy, which has been placed at the centre of country politics and has caused great suffering, the major construction tenders. Why? Because with the resources to leave here, we can keep our people, our people, our citizens healthy, and ensure their health. Under the security of the state, employees in the private sector must be given at least three months' salary guarantees. It's a legal obligation, it won't be a blessing. The unemployment fund must also be used for this purpose. In particular, homeless citizens must be given a comprehensive health scan; homes, nursing homes, guesthouses, and empty homes must be placed in homeless, homeless citizens living on the street. Apart from Turkish, multilingual public spotlights should be prepared in other languages, especially in Kurdish, and should be broadcast without interruption from public spotlights, televisions, radios. In terms of the sick and elderly prisoners, they must be immediately reviewed and released before the day of the hearing or the day of the detention. However, let us not forget that Iran evacuated 85,000 prisoners during that time. Incarceration is just one of the forensic control measures. We also have forensic control measures outside of detention, such as curfews, signing police stations at certain times, leaving the house at certain times, like electronic handcuffs. So arrest is not the only forensic control that comes to mind. There will be no way for the courts to proceed immediately -- and with the Ministry of Justice's initiatives on this matter -- and there will of course not be all of those who are arrested, but there must be attempts to evacuate those who are under arrest as much as possible. And even if the ones with children, the elderly and the patients are convicted, the execution of their sentences must be postponed and they must be evacuated. We've recently -- we've been told a lot, but -- we've also seen the Sivas massacre defendant released from old age. So there are examples of this. We don't know how accurate they are without endangering their health... as the Minister of Health informs us, of course, because in 2 prisons, the coronavirus test is said to have been positive, and they say that quarantine has been initiated. We hope this information isn't true, but the prisons expect a step from the government. Refugees, asylum seekers must be given full health care in the camps where the protected ones are staying, and they must be improved. Anyone left in the camps should be tested for coronavirus. In addition, non-registered immigrants should also be granted uninterrupted health care. In the final part of my speech, the President made a series of statements before and after the meeting yesterday, which I would like to share with you the opinion of our party. Now, Mr. President made statements before and after the Cooronavirus Co-ordination Meeting, and announced a package. A lot of things have been found to be missing in this package. For example, this package had no idea how many tests have been conducted so far. Avoid contact, wash your hands with soap, for how to prevent the spread of the virus. Other than that, there was not enough information. Since he didn't have a sabbatical, there was no information about anyone who had to go to work. There was no information on how 7.5 million unemployed would fight this epidemic and how to support it. There was not a single piece of information about the measures to the prison. So, what was in the package? There was 100 billion in packages, tax cuts, and joy for the son of Citadel. Even a global pandemic had an effort to turn it into a political opportunity. There was patience for the working class, prayer, lots of cologne, VAT reductions to capital, loan delays, interest reductions, stock financing support and a 100 billion-dollar package. Mr. President has established a seating arrangement with guests a few feet further away from him, and that's what we're doing in parliament. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll give you my last words, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0020par0152	Complete, please.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0018par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, in Ankara, for example, think of a citizen who lives in Tuzluçıer, Mamaki, Westville, Sincan, Etimesgut, and has to come and work in Kızılay. He'll leave the house, take public transports, subways or buses. For example, he may be working at the tax office, in the municipality, where he will be in contact with hundreds of thousands of people by evening. Later, when he's done, he'll get back on public transportation, take the bus and the subway, and as soon as he's in the house, he'll go straight to the bathroom, wash his hands with soap. Hey, we fought the coronavirus. So that's it? Is that all we're offering the citizen? Look, there were 21 headlines in the package yesterday, and only four of them were concerned about public health, and the President did not use the word "people's health" once, from the beginning to the end of his speech. The President's message yesterday was clear: you protect yourself against the epidemic, we give you low interest loans. We say against this: we are united, we are not helpless, we will overcome together. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0021par0158	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Tekin Bingöl. Here you are, Mr. Bingöl.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0022par0161	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We welcome the Minister and thank him for his information. Dear lawmakers, the earth is facing a very serious problem, and there are virtually no countries in the world, so that it doesn't have its share of the plague; a major problem, a major pandemic. The way to get through this is through social solidarity, through co-operation. That's what we need to maintain, but I want to underline one thing, that after this pandemic, everything in the world won't be the same. Today, the world is a world where racists roam around, violence, war, wild capitalism exploits the working masses as much as possible, human rights violations are completely ignored. After this pandemic, I hope it will lead to a new era, a new world, where sharing, solidarity, brotherhood, freedom and human rights are dominated throughout the world. My dear friends, as this problem is resolved, participation is very important, and the key element to contributing is transparency. Transparency will ensure and strengthen the trust of institutions, just as society is widely informed of this issue. It's very important. In that respect, the public needs to be informed in each phase of this problem, with great clarity, with regard to transparency. Was this all done in the beginning? If I say it's done, I swear I'm not telling the truth.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0023par0165	Yes, the CHP delegation has visited, Mr. Secretary. Why...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0022par0166	But what we did was that, as we were responsible for opposition, from the beginning to the end, by being extremely sensitive and sensitive, we maintained an understanding that the problem was all of us. Our proposals, our warnings, and the issues we wanted to draw attention to were completely dominated by our talks from our president to our humblest member. So, what happened? As I mentioned earlier, this sharing of information was not done seriously at first, for example, the daily number of tests was not disclosed; it is finally mentioned today as the 10,000 digits. I wonder if there's enough kits and rapid testing in the following process, what's the amount? We need to know that. Another important thing: Mr. Secretary mentioned here, that from today on, these tests will be conducted at 18 centers, but that's not enough. Now we're dealing with a pandemic that has to be conducted in 81 counties, all state hospitals and university hospitals. Do you have enough kits? These numbers need to be explained, too. Look, dear friends, in the beginning, the first days were, of course, sensitive to create fear and panic, but this threshold has now been breached; accurate and widespread information will bring with it the information of the public, so transparency is very important. Another thing: Mr. Secretary just applauded the heroes here, and we applauded those heroes, but the heroics of those heroes, the paramedics, were not unique today, but in 1915, medical students showed that heroism. (CHP and GOOD PARTY) While there was a national struggle against imperialism, those medics showed that heroism.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0024par0170	What the hell!
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0022par0171	And in every aspect of life, when there's any violence, when there's a disaster of course, at first, those heroes feel responsible for carrying out their duties. So, dear lawmakers, is this the only thing we should do to these heroes that we applaud and greet with words of praise? We've been talking about the coronavirus in Parliament for days, we've been singing praises, but what we're doing is we're talking about the bag of laws, we're talking international agreements. Mr. Secretary, let's take out the law of violence in health of those heroes you've been praising and applauding. (Applause from CHP rows) Mr. Secretary, let's make sure that the health workers who work under difficult conditions are able to work together at least under better conditions. Their children work at home for 24 hours on the basis of their children; we must ensure that their children work peacefully in private day care, without their eyes behind their backs. We need to provide private, hospital-close housing, private transportation, so that the problems of those heroes you're talking about can be solved a little bit, and they can be comfortable, free of stress, keeping their morale and motivation high, and that's what needs to be done. Let's give the heroes a round of applause, but let's give them their rights, that's what this Parliament has to do. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, we're talking about participation. Social solidarity is very, very important, and we're all stressing, but what you can do is that there are no major organizations involved, there are no Turkish Medical Association; there are tens of thousands of members, there are nearly 65 branches, and they have very close dialogues with international professions. The exchange of information is very high, followed by a very comfortable flow of information from all sides of Turkey. Well, they have a speciality association. For example, there is a very good report prepared by the Aydın Medical Chamber that has examined the special conditions of Aydın, the conditions of the hospital, the conditions of the health workers. So what if these professional rooms, unions, NGOs, specialist organizations were to participate in the process, and one of these organizations was to join them? It's wealth, it's social solidarity, it's participation. This will, in a significant sense, actually, solve this problem with a transparent understanding. We, as I mentioned earlier, are doing everything we need to do on the basis of our responsibility. Yesterday, Mr. President made some very serious, very important statements. Today, our Group Vice President gave the Minister our package of proposals containing 45 articles. We've done other things. Maybe it's not too important to you. We've scanned every registered member of the Republican People's Party. We've identified all our paramedics, their contact addresses, their expertise, and they're standing by. When needed, the volunteer basis is that all of our friends are ready for duty like those heroes. As the Republican People's Party, we carry out this responsibility. Another thing, now, is a lot of talk, but it's not meant to be: a package was announced yesterday, and there were some things that made us happy. For example, 20 grand of our 700,000 teacher friend is being appointed. It's amazing. We're so happy. Is that enough? It's not enough. However, there are over 600,000 medical personnel waiting for a transfer. These people were promised in 2019, and Mr. Secretary is here; we will receive 29,000 staff in 2019. What happened? What happened? It's subsidized, it's unspoken. But here it is today, today, today. Can't some of these be appointed on days when we need health workers the most? Look, they've been assigned, but there are health workers who haven't been launched due to a security investigation, why aren't they being launched? Perhaps, my dear friends, one day -- I hope we don't see those days -- we'll even call in retired paramedics when we need them. Yeah, well, they have dynamic, young, shiny medical staff, so why don't we just assign them? 30,000, 40 grand, 50 grand, whatever, let's do their assignments. These are our exciting young brothers, our educated brothers, but we don't have them... just trying to get away with some so-called issues. There's so much to talk about, prisons, prisons, it's a great problem here. The way to overcome this problem is not just by banning opinions, visits, but by delaying certain cases. Look, members of Group Comment have been left on hunger strike and left to die. Yeah, well, these people aren't running, so at least they need to be released for their falling resistance. There are press workers... all of them, the complete patriots of this country, but they're all under arrest. Let these people go out, let their cases go on, what happens? They don't run, their address is clear. Believe me, they will not go anywhere on their behalf, and when they are called upon, they will go running, and they will come to their cause. Now, look, yesterday the package was announced, and there were other things we were happy about. For example, their pension has been raised to 1,500 lira. Mr. President and we have run out of feathers. Every chance we get, we've got citizens who have under a thousand lira pensions; 800 lira, 900 lira pensioners. No, they said there is no such thing. But life proved us right again. Yesterday, it was confirmed that there were under 1,500 pensions, and their salaries were raised today -- unfortunately today -- to 1,500 -- just as we insisted on paying pensions for the pensioners on the two holidays.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0025par0179	Brother, come on!
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0022par0180	Is 1,500 lira enough? That's not enough. Is it possible that in a country with a hunger limit of $2,257, in a country with a poverty limit of $7,253, 1,500 would be enough? But at least their pensions didn't come from below 1,500 lira, which is another proof of how right we are, how accurate we are, what we're doing.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0026par0181	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0022par0182	Look, dear friends, another issue: Now, the malls and markets have been emptied, no supplies in the departments, and it's been keeping the public busy for days. Those markets are grocery stores in the area where higher income groups live. We have 1,000 liras, 1,500 liras, $2,200 minimum wage citizens. There are 22.5 million minimum wagers; 12.5 million pensioners, widows and orphans. Yeah, can they get in front of those aisles? So, what's it gonna be? You will stay home for at least three weeks. What do they get for three weeks with a thousand liras, 1,500 lira? 3-5 packs of pasta, 3-5 kilos of bulcor, several kilos of onions, potatoes. So, what? It's over. What if it lasts three weeks? Those people will be trapped in their homes, in their destiny. There's gonna be a new case, and we're going to see cases of deaths where those who have to stay in their homes for a long time are facing starvation -- hopefully not. These need to be resolved. There's no way to end this without solving their problems, because we have to turn our faces to workers, poor people, poor people; otherwise, it's just palatial, so that no problem can be solved with the explanations that save the day. Trump says, "I'll give every house a thousand dollars." He says, "I'll give every house a thousand euros." And we're giving it to the public with praise that we've raised your 900 lira pension to 1,500 lira. That's not the point. Madam Secretary, we said we favour transparency every chance we get. Look, why aren't the suspicious cases explained? There's something else that's been keeping the public busy since yesterday: the death of former Army Commander Aytaç Yalman. It's said to be with the coronavirus. The Minister needs to explain all this, the public needs to be informed. That's doubtful, these suspicious circumstances need to be eliminated. No matter how many words you say, it goes in my ear, it comes out my ear. I'm talking about the truth, I'm talking about the truth. The truth is bitter, it may disturb you. Don't worry, our people are aware of all this.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0027par0188	Let's complete it, Mr. Bingöl.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0022par0189	Now, my dear friends, another thing is hospitals. Is there enough respiratory support when we face a potential major outbreak?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0028par0190	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0029par0191	How do you know?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0030par0192	How do you know it's not?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0031par0193	Are there enough medical equipment? Is there enough equipment? Are there enough hygiene supplies?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0032par0194	The minister told you.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0031par0195	Now, there's something going on here again, and yesterday's package made a statement like this.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0033par0196	Mr. Bingöl, one moment... Dear friends, please... Here they are, Mr. Bingöl.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0034par0199	As the package was announced yesterday, one more thing was done, and it was said that we will distribute cologne and masks to every citizen over the age of 65. Dear lawmakers, this country has great traditions. No matter which house you go to, no matter which office you go to, they offer you the first cologne. At the markets, at the grocery stores, at the drugstores, we ran out of cologne first. It's a tradition. Now, it won't be solved with 25-30 cc's of cologne, a couple of masks. What you're going to do is you're going to get enough respirators, open enough intensive care units, turn regular bed services into a significant number of intensive care facilities, just to be safe. You have to take precautions like that. You can't solve a problem without taking these precautions, talking about things, talking about things. Listen to us, listen to us. We've always shared the truth with you, you didn't listen, you got Turkey in trouble, you made it this way. I hope this problem will be a problem we can solve together.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0035par0201	Mr. Secretary explained, you didn't listen!
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0034par0202	But what the Minister is talking about here, it's not much more than what he's already explained. Every day, with great curiosity, with excitement, we listen after twelve o'clock at night to see what we can come up with. I wish I could be a little more specific about the answers to these questions I'm talking about.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0036par0204	Say your last words as a thank you. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0034par0206	Well, last word: this problem is not solved by superstitions, by different understandings, by what the charlatans suggest. (EC PARTIES) This problem is solved by social solidarity, by the leadership of reason and science. Come, make a principle of science, of science, and this problem will be solved. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0037par0209	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0038par0210	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0037par0211	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0038par0212	Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0037par0215	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're talking about a pandemic announced by the World Health Organization on December 31st, as every witness on the stand today states. We are here in consultations of the national will to share the measures and steps taken from the very first moment in our country, the work we've done in solidarity with our nation, and the work we're going to do in the future. We've listened to our Minister's briefing, but in such a matter, we need to move forward with the silence and consultation that is the only direction our nation expects of us and the struggle for success. In a case like this, on January 22nd, at the very beginning of the work, he took the liberty of closing the doors that had just begun in Wuhan, and from the very beginning, he took the authority and the scientific method and...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0039par0219	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0037par0220	.... I respectfully salute the General Assembly, not to discredit the work of our President and our government.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0039par0221	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0040par0223	Mr. President, our spokesman is facing an accusation. Never, ever... Would you excuse me, Mayor? Mayor, if you'll excuse me, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0041par0225	No, your congressman did something to me.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0040par0226	Give me a break, I'll give you a break.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0041par0227	Your congressman did it on the stand, and now he's doing it. You'll take care of it first.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0040par0228	Friend...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0041par0229	Excuse me, please. Please, would you look at your congressman?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0040par0230	Come on, turn around, it's okay, it's okay.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0041par0231	No...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0040par0232	Mr. President, we have an important agenda. You're the living witness we've been taking care of since the beginning of the week. Mr. Hani has, of course, handed over the rights of the Minister's health army, health workers and workers. But on one side of the conversation, there's nothing more normal than a political party, with the responsibility of being an opposition party, carefully choosing every word, expressing certain shortcomings that it sees.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0042par0234	Completion, sir?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0040par0235	Today, this delicate situation has made the ruling party MPs more sensitive, more sensitive, and more daring in certain matters than they should be. We don't have to be an acceptable opposition party, according to your water. (CHP cheers) We'll say we're in the right place, according to the authority we get from the public. If we are to be appreciated, we are to be praised, we are to be criticized, we are to be condemned. I ask you very much, and I said this yesterday, and let's note here that the attack on Tekin Bingöl has begun from the moment he remembered the Turkish Medical Association, the trade organisation he belonged to. Sir, it says: "I don't know where he has signed." What if, if you look at him, if we're going to build a categorical contrast, what have you done in the past? In the process, we're opening a loan to a minister appointed by your party's elected president, and we're contributing. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Please, shall I finish?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0042par0238	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0040par0239	And we create a fault line in this issue, and we struggle for a separation, a distance, a polarization, so that there will be no social weakness. On the one hand, Turkey's oldest, most ancient professional organization has reached out its hand. It says, "Let's manage this crisis together." It's being left up in the air. Because what did he do? You think he's got the wrong signature in the past. If you continue with them, even though you have made the worst decisions in favor of the workers of this country, on the side of the people, on the side of the poor, on the side of the Gar massacre, and on the hold of the Gar massacre, we are holding our voices below a certain tone for the most categorical politics that we will now resist, while we are holding our voices to the sound of these sensitive days, while we are condemning the attack on our coroner and on the basis of the hatred of the Union of the Turkish Medicines.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0043par0242	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0044par0243	Not at all, not at all...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0040par0244	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0045par0245	If you'll excuse me, Hatibe...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0040par0246	Mr. President, I couldn't complete it.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0045par0247	All right, complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0040par0248	Let's say from here, once again, the crown-wearing head will be wise. Opposition speaks, but the advice given by Edebali is not to opposition, but to power. Today is not a day of hearing, but a day of hearing, a day of criticism. Today, from the coming of this matter to this point, let us not impose on you the courage that you do not deserve, the arrogance that you do not deserve. It's because we love the country, because we respect the sensitivity of the issue. Never, ever hold on to the Republican People's Party, or our oratories, or the community we represent, to use those words, and do not strain the issue in the following process. You'll be left with the responsibility of power here. We're doing our part as the opposition. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0046par0251	It's obvious...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0047par0252	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0048par0253	Mr. Özkan, I think it's about the voodoo, in one sentence, please...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0047par0255	Mr. President, of course, no one has the right to make a statement to anyone, nor do we have the right to be told what to do. At this point, we carry out our constitutional duty here, and of course, political parties will have criticism, there will be compelling criticisms, but no one has the authority to do the analogy to the AK PARTY group, which no one has brought down. Look, right now, this nation has given us authority because we crown the poor, the poor, the strange guru, the nation's trust, and we are fulfilling the struggle to serve this nation. In this sense, of course, we have all the evals of all other political party groups, including the main opposition party, of course, of course, of course, at the end here, and our Minister is taking note of that. In this sense, we know that this isn't about the doctors' room; it's about fighting the case of the coronavirus that our country and the world are fighting. Thank you, General Kurula, again, for all political parties.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0049par0261	Erzurum MP Recep Akdağ on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here they are, Mr. Akdağ.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0050par0264	Mr. President, on behalf of our AK PARTY Group, I stand before you to make statements regarding the outbreak of coronavirus all over the world, including our Minister's information and contributions to our groups. As we all know, infectious diseases, epidemics of infectious diseases have killed more people throughout human history, sometimes even more than wars. We as a country, as a nation, are a nation that has qualities that have a way of dealing with adversity together. Here, just the day before, we celebrated the 105th anniversary of the March 18th victory of Çanakkale. This is what happened in the victory of Çanakkale, and this is what happened in the Battle of Salvation, and the closest example of this happened on July 15th; all together, the precious deputies under this roof, our entire nation, have shown a great insight and a great fear to overcome a great tribulation. I believe that our nation together will demonstrate this insight into this pandemic of coronavirus. We will, of course, contribute to the process, contribute to any service, any planning, as lawmakers under this lofty roof with opposition. I've made a lot of use of the talks on behalf of the groups. I know that Mr. Health Minister and his team, who's been handling this with a positive attitude all along, are welcome to them -- they're going to take advantage of them. Indeed, it is admirable how our MPs and groups have shown common sense from the beginning. Of course, there are differences in opinion. See, in different countries and developed countries, even in countries where science has developed so much, we can have different approaches. What's more, I've worked with these scientific boards in the past in epidemics in the past -- there are differences in opinion. Two scientists sit side by side, one suggests something else in the same field, one suggests something else. Of course, there are differences in opinion. The important thing is, is the matter being approached sincerely, and the important thing is, what is the state of the leadership against the issue? Thank God for thousands of times, we also see our president's high strength in this epidemic -- but whatever crisis -- in the face of crises. Co-ordinating has been achieved, along with a little bit of the nature of our Ministry of Health, of ministries, institutions, organizations, of health, and it's been planned, and so far it's gone really well. In fact, over the last 40 years, we've seen epidemics of viruses all over the world, interestingly. So we've succeeded in other microorganisms, bacteria, world-class, but viruses, these tiny creatures, sometimes even alive in the world of science, sometimes the whole world can be helpless against these beings. See, we're all working together so we don't get desperate. Remember, in the past, in our country, bird flu, SARS... At first, we were able to stop the SARS from entering our country. We were quite prepared for the bird flu, and as a result, the World Health Organization showed the entire world the example of the Pandemic Prep Plan, which we had prepared at the time as the Republic of Turkey. And then, you'll remember, we had the H1N1 outbreak, where we were able to survive the outbreak with more casualties than the world average. Because we were really well prepared. Because Turkey's health system had been brought to a good place in response to such epidemics compared to most countries in the world, and today we are in a good place, thank God. And as a matter of fact, our Ministry of Health is renovating our National Pandemic Plan at intervals, with certain periods. Just before this outbreak, in 2019, because our Ministry of Health had renewed the pandemic plan, since our Ministry and Minister of the Ministry were ready for this issue, we were able to take many steps, many steps that other countries could not take early. We have an early warning and response system that works very well in Turkey. We have a staff of medical staff who are qualified to respond in epidemiological terms -- we call these epidemics -- in medicine -- and thank God they are. And in the time of our rule, until 2002, we have had huge advantages in the Covid-19 pandem, which we developed and renewed in 17 to 18 years, our operational infrastructure, our scientific approach, our transparency tradition, which has shown excellent examples from the beginning of our Minister. So we saw Iran right next to us, and we saw Italy, and we were sad, and we realized that they had been caught a little bit off guard by what really happened there. Now, when we were talking about this health infrastructure, he also mentioned some of our friends in the city hospitals. Dear friends, city hospitals have a huge contribution to our country as well as the capacity of an intensive care bed, especially in preparation for a pandeminium, as well as the infrastructure. You can use a city hospital in a pandemide, you can use it, you can use a block, but collectively, we all know that these hospitals increase intensive care capacity in our country, patient care capacity in our country. Now, our Ministry of Health -- we just received word from our esteemed minister -- had first identified certain hospitals in this sense. Now, in any hospital that can interfere, these opportunities are being created in university hospitals, public hospitals, health department hospitals, and private hospitals. Turkey has a highly developed private hospital infrastructure. Of course, in such a case, they will put their hands under the stone. The fact that the number of cases is not increasing is the greatest wish of all of us; it can be increased, we all work together, and everyone is doing the best they can on this, but the value of the increase in the number of cases is, really, our infrastructure is good. I'm going to show you these with some graphs in a little bit. Under our President's instructions and administration, our Ministry of Health has established a Science Board without delay, and has demonstrated all measures proactively. Decisions made in time were also carried out by the contributions and practices of all institutions. I'm not going into any of this. Yesterday, Mr. President spoke in detail, and today, Mr. Secretary gave us part of the details. Sometimes, questions are asked: "Why didn't the Minister explain this matter? " Every detail, dear friends, may not be explained, but we have seen from the beginning that transparency is at the level that it should be. And I'm sure no one has any doubts about that. In some countries, we have not been flustered in Turkey; in some countries, social insensitivity, in some cases, at the extremes of panic. We followed the middle course, we acted transparently, and we maintained social trust. With measures being taken, the disease has been delayed entering our country, and we are now trying to prevent it from spreading abroad. At this point, we can see the difference when we compare Turkey to the countries that have had the same problem, as I just said. Dear friends, we all see that Italy's illegal domestic product is three times Turkey's per capita; the money they've divided into the healthcare system, the money they can spare is several times higher than Turkey's, but we all see what's happening. So, how ready are we for the patient load that we may encounter in Turkey in the coming days, what makes Turkey different? In order to avoid contamination, we try to keep the number of cases from increasing, but we have to treat our infected citizens in the most appropriate way. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to show you some graphs. My dear friends, this first graph shows the quality of patient beds in Turkey. In Turkey -- in the Ministry of Health -- 74 per cent of sick beds are in rooms with bathrooms and toilets in them today. Mr. Health Minister has just expressed that we have 99,000 rooms, so we can put one patient in a single room, we can isolate it; not every patient needs intensive care. So, what was this number, what was it before the AK PARTY power, before the Change in Health Program? Unfortunately, it was only 6.4 percent.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0051par0277	Thirty years ago...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0050par0278	It was 6.4 percent. Not thirty years ago, 17 years ago, you said my esteemed MP, thirty years ago. But it doesn't matter, 17 years ago, Turkey had hospitals, so the room in its room with a toilet was 6.4%, and the room in it was 93.6%, and here, in the toilet, in the bathroom, we all have been there; and your age is probably close to me. If Turkey had faced such a crisis, we would have been crushed and crushed. How do you isolate the patients? But look, thank God that's where we came in today. Here, with city hospitals, other hospitals -- God willing -- our ministry, our government, with our President's leadership, will soon bring it up to 100 percent. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Rightfully, we have questions from our MPs, from our ministers, and from our ministers, how are our intensive care beds? These are very righteous questions, and I appreciate them. My dear friends, there are around 40,000 intensive care beds in Turkey. The bed above 25,000 in these is an adult bed. Well, we can still find it difficult to deal with such a crisis; it's true. In particular, we know that in our major cities there are high levels of bed capacity in intensive care, but in many other cities, there are low levels of beds, and now, our well-run Ministry of Health, our Precious Minister of Health -- who I met with one day earlier -- is planning this issue with a new plan, with a new plan, by making a number of additions to the hospitals where there are respirators missing from intensive care beds, perhaps by putting them into the system, or by putting them into the system. Well, we have over 25,000 intensive care beds, but what is their condition compared to that of Europe, or what is it compared to the world? My dear friends, look, there are comparisons here with different countries. The ones shown in red are Turkey. This one, the highest one, shows all the ICU beds, so there's some new-born ICU beds in it. So in order to make the comparison a little bit more accurate, I've also drawn up the proportion of adult intensive care beds, and I've drawn up this graph for you. Thirty adult intensive care beds fall to every 100,000 people. We're about the same as the United States of America, more and more than any other European country, and my dear friends, one intensive care bed doesn't just mean putting a bed in one room, you're raising one ventilator per head; you're raising his staff, you're organizing his organization. In the past 17 years, Turkey is a country that has met all of this with the power of the AK PARTI, which, by Allah's permission, we are able to face this pandemic as well. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] So, what's our number of respirators? My dear friends, we have 25,000 respirators in all sectors of Turkey. We're able to use 17 to 18,000 of these to adult patients. However, no matter how powerful your health system is -- the warnings of our valued lawmakers and the warnings of my friends from the opposition are very right -- are forced against such a heavy burden, no matter what system it is. Now, then, what are we all supposed to do? We're gonna keep trying to make sure this load doesn't go up, like we've done so far. On the other hand, we have to maintain the balance between public health and economics. There were talks about economics. Mr. President's measures on the economy yesterday are actually measures taken along with all the partners. Remember, there weren't just employers there, there were labor representatives there, there were people from different sectors, and I believe that in the process, our ministries, our boards, will also reveal new measures, if necessary, regarding our President's instructions. Of course, we have to consider the possibilities, so we will assess Turkey's economic measures in Turkey's terms, if we evaluate them on the terms of the United States or on the terms of Germany. We need a multicessive approach, we need the common movement of all sectors, and the leadership of our President is really giving us all hope. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0052par0289	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0050par0290	My dear friends, I've just expressed that there will be different opinions; the important thing is to put together the common mind. We need to continue to warn the public as a matter of very simple measures. Here, under this roof, we have lawmakers that our people have been imitating, we have to continue to explain the importance of washing hands at every turn without too much confusion. Washing hands, washing hands -- I can't get into details because I don't have time -- protecting social distances and staying at home -- look, there's a lot of talk on TV, on social media, but these three are very important: let's wash our hands, if we're in business, let's sit at home and keep social distances. Young people can watch light; yes, they do, we know, but we're a nation that values our elders, they're our babies, our darlings, our lungs, God forbid, if one of us carries this disease on our house and costs one of our old people his life, we all know it. And the paramedics, of course... We should always appreciate the health workers, and we understand them better in these days. They're willing to sacrifice, and they're in the risk group. I, for many years, have worked with them as health ministers; I am proud of them. Wherever we've been, wherever we've been in trouble, health workers have always taken matters into their own hands as first-degree owners. May my Lord be pleased with them all. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I also see that we stand together against social media fraud. And I'd like to say that I'm very happy about it. We'll listen to our ministry, we'll listen to experts, we won't panic unnecessaryly; our Ministry of the 184th SABIM line, which we established years ago, has turned it to a very accurate decision, and if we need it, we'll get backup from here by calling phone number 184. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll finish right away, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0053par0296	To greet...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0050par0297	Dear friends, at the end of my talk, again, I thank you, I thank you, all of you, and I end up with a very important message to our president, Mr. Health Minister and his team, and to our ministers, and to the parties, and to the parties, and to the party leaders, and to the MPs, and to all of you, and to all of you, and to all of you, and to all of you, I thank you. The paramedics have an excellent message. They give us this message: "We are staying here for you, so please stay home for us. " Thank you all very much.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0053par0300	The lawmakers, without a group, have a five-minute say. Our first speaker is Ankara MP Mustafa Destici. Here you go, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0054par0304	Mr. Court, honorable MPs, my nation of Necip, first I salute you with respect and respect. We're going through an important process. Once again, we witness how important health, health care is before the disease comes. I ask God's mercy for two of our citizens who died of this coronavirus disease. I call on our citizens, who are currently on treatments, health and urgent healings from the great Lord. Of course, I'd like to express our satisfaction that our state has made more serious preparations when it begins at the end of December in China and is compared to other states in the face of an epidemic that has spread almost all over the world today. Likewise, our nation showed great sensitivity. Of course, our nation's sensitivity will fail if it remains at 99.9%. Here, we need to co-operate 100% success in the nation and in the state. For that, we have a responsibility, responsibility, and responsibility to follow the recommendations of all concerned institutions and organizations, especially our Ministry of Health. It's not arbitrary, it's a liability, it's a necessity. Of course, here, Mr. Fahrettin, our Minister of Health, in particular, I'd like to thank the esteemed members of our Science Board, all of our Health Department staff, especially our physicians and health workers. In the end, this virus would come to our country, but at the point that this virus is late, we are both suffering from both loss and disease, as we can call it today, due to the meticulousness of both diagnostic and treatment services after we arrived. But, of course, this doesn't end here because it's an epidemic, and we know that the next precautions and process are more important. Of course, what we've seen here is that we're witnessing how strategic and secure the drug and vaccine is. Just like the steps we took in the local defense industry, I hope that steps are taken and that these steps, hopefully, will soon come to fruition. Of course, in the beginning of measures and recommendations, we all recommend it to our own family and to the position of responsibility as well as to our community and to our entire nation at any moment, and we will continue to recommend it. Of course, I have some public impressions on the street. One of them, even partially, is expecting a curfew. We have a particular audience that sees it as important that the outbreak doesn't spread, and we have that kind of expectation. Secondly, we'll stay at home, but there are people working in the public sector, there are people working in the private sector. For these, we think that, at least, the re-organization of the shifts, the re-organization of the working hours, and the ability to do transformational work if possible, so that if there are 10 people sitting in the same apartment, five people sitting in the same apartment -- they'll have kept the distance. I went to a grocery store yesterday, and when I left 15 days ago, I saw the same attitude, the way he was selling, the way he was selling. Stores, markets, especially places where people go a lot, need to be more carefully inspected and never allowed to have fun on the floor.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0055par0313	Complete.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0054par0314	▪ No one should get involved in understanding that nothing will happen to me. Involuntary, provocative sharing should never be given bonuses in social media. Again, we have very different views on television programs, especially the experts of each subject, unfortunately, who have come up with ideas such as the genius of this issue. I think it's very important to have these places under control, to have people informed and to do the right things. The opportunists must be fought to the end, but unlike opportunists, I would like to thank our citizens here, who have spent almost all their wealth, property, and all their resources. Final sentence, precious MPs, we're entering the robotic age. For one thing, we need to be aware of that, not conventional weapons, but robotic weapons at work.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0055par0317	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0054par0318	This is a great test for us; we have an obligation to prepare our country, our nation, ourselves for this age. I salute you again with these thoughts and feelings. Thank you, all of our health workers, especially Mr. President, and all of our government's officials, for making such a great sacrifice in the process.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0055par0321	İstanbul MP Erkan Baş. Here you go, Mr. Head.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0056par0324	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly, but first, I offer my condolences to all citizens who have been diagnosed with coronavirus, and my condolences to the families of our citizens who have lost their lives. Now, this epidemic that we've been dealing with has probably been discussed in almost all dimensions, but I want to talk about a dimension that is not spoken of, especially here that is almost never spoken of -- the desperation of workers and people in the face of this epidemic. To be honest, I'm on the stand again today to tell you things maybe the government doesn't want to hear. Dear friends, because there's a memorization, it's the same thing all over the place. What is it? This virus is rich, poor, working, bossing. Right, it doesn't separate viruses, it doesn't separate viruses, but it separates power. We have not seen a real measure taken for the workers since March 11th, or after yesterday's concrete meeting. In the face of the plague, some defend themselves in various ways, but others are helpless and lonely in the face of the plague. The rich have access to all kinds of possibilities; our poor people, and the laborers -- if I am in their rights -- have been put as bait in front of the virus. Look, on March 11th, on the day the first case was announced, Erdogan came to the parliament for a group meeting, where he appeared in the media, surrounded by thermal cameras, and we haven't seen him since yesterday. Then, like TÜSİAD, boss organisations such as TOBB made statements. Everyone always says the same thing, they say: "Everyone stays at home. " But who is this everyone? I mean, you guys stay home and order online, but who brings you these products? Aren't there workers who work in shops, safes, department stores, warehouses, including everyone? The plague is overcome by hygiene; yes, it is overcome by hygiene. So, who collects our garbage? Aren't these, like, everybody's got them? Should they stay home too? Who works at the banks' tollbooths, call centers? Look, before the sun comes up, the workers are still on their service, stuck in subways, subways, traveling. Millions of workers have been working in factories and workshops for a week, but Mr. President, who has not left his palace for a long time, says to the people, "Do not leave the house unless you have to." You guys think it's fun to leave the house? Do you realize that if these people don't leave the house, they're going to starve? I mean, we understand, of course, that you have people who care about your problems. For example, we saw yesterday that you were a cure for the problems of capital. I ask you, did the meeting yesterday come up with a single solution for millions of workers and workers? For example, we were expecting that the real problems of citizens would be discussed and the solution would be offered; is there? No. The working conditions will be arranged according to the conditions of the virus; there isn't. There's a trick called free leave; will it be prevented? No. Will the public be able to deliver basic supplies, such as medicine, and will the government be responsible for this? No. What about the debts, the bills? Do you guys ever ask who's gonna pay the bills for electricity, water, Internet, phone calls? Yeah, well, that's not what happens when you're rounding up boss organizations and making decisions. The conclusion from the meeting is this: credit, encouragement, support for the boss; patience for the poor, the laborer, prayer, cologne, nothing else. We can't solve this problem in such a way. I repeat: the virus is rich, poor, working boss doesn't separate, but you do. In a temporarily closed workplace, I'm either asking the workers for mandatory permission, or they're getting them to sign papers or they're getting them to sign out. And how will this unemployed worker, or free-of-charge, deal with this epidemic, protect himself, his family, his children? What do you want him to do, feed his kids rocks at home? We don't know what you're waiting for. Erdogan says that the bosses are in good spirits and the workers' mother is crying in good spirits. Paramedics have no masks, no gloves; they're dealing with it. We can't protect the health workers we've entrusted our lives to, but we'll protect the public? I don't think that's the problem with this system anyway. Look, what does the Minister say? You need a comprehensive health system to fight it. What you've been calling a health care system for 20 years is based on how to make money on health care. I mean, you know how any person who puts their hand on their conscience realizes that health is something that can be bought and sold? Private hospital, private health care; health care for those without money, health for those without money; is that acceptable? But it's the foundation of this system, of the system you've built. So for twenty years, how do we make money from health? The eyes of those who look at it rejoice; it is a plague, and you will earn a lot of money.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0057par0333	You didn't listen to Recep Akdağ.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0058par0334	Where do you live, Mr. Erkan?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0056par0335	I live in Istanbul, I ride the subway; have you ever been on it? Did you guys get on the subway today?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0058par0338	You're twisting it.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0056par0339	Mr. President, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0059par0340	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0058par0341	Erkan Bey, have you ever paid a salary in your life?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0056par0342	Dear friends, how are we supposed to trust a government, a power that doesn't even take the Turkish Medical Corps to fight the plague? I mean, let's separate the person, but how can the health care system set up by a health minister who owns a private hospital?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0060par0344	Shame on you!
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0056par0345	Health is not something to make money on. You can't make money on public health.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0061par0346	People get treated for free in this country, they take drugs.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0056par0347	Dear friends, look, we will defeat these coronaviruses despite the mistakes of your power.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0061par0348	Have you ever paid a worker in your life?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0056par0349	But not thanks to you; in the first place, we're going to beat the paramedics who fight heroically; we're going to win their lives because of workers who take their own lives and bring health to millions.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0061par0350	Have you ever paid a worker? Have you ever paid an insurance premium?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0056par0351	...we're going to beat this corona virus with our young people who are holding onto each other, volunteering for their old neighbor in their apartment, and we're going to beat it through teenagers who are running around poor neighborhoods for medicine and basic food benefits. Don't worry, after the corona, it'll be your turn, and we'll take care of you.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0061par0354	What are you gonna do? What are you gonna do? Tell me what you're going to do! You're on the stand, don't threaten!
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0062par0355	You address the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0056par0356	Now, friends, let me make a creative suggestion. Anyway, I don't know if it's creative or not, but what would we do if we were in power?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0061par0357	Don't threaten me, tell me what to do!
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0056par0358	If we were in power: 1) Free leave must be prohibited. Anyone who loses his job must be given unemployment benefits.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0061par0359	You can't threaten a public defender! Tell me what you're going to do!
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0063par0360	Mr. Chief, please...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0061par0361	Have you ever paid a worker in your life? Did you do all this?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0063par0362	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0064par0363	Mr. President, if you shut him up, let me do the talking.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0063par0364	Please... please...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0065par0365	You're not paying the worker, you're talking! You're the one who's exploiting the worker!
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0063par0366	Congressmans, if you'll excuse me, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0065par0367	Mr. President, don't let him threaten people. He can't threaten!
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0063par0368	Here they are, Mr. Chief. Here they are. Hail, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0066par0370	Dear friends, look, what would socialists do if they were in power?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0067par0371	You're talking nonsense! You're going out, reading fairy tales!
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0066par0372	I'm telling you, you'll like it, you won't like it...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0067par0373	I've been listening for two years, reading a story.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0066par0374	We say everyone should be allowed free. Quitting must be prohibited, and everyone who loses his job must be given unemployment benefits. 2) Since no one can pay their rent, the following must not face consequences, such as evacuation. All services such as electricity, water, natural gas, communication must be given at a basic level of need free. All private health hospitals must be stateed, open to the public. All private dorms, parishes, trust homes, all must be confiscated, re-prepared according to quarantine.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0068par0376	Russia gave it up, Russia gave it up.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0066par0377	Health screenings and corona testing practice should be done for everyone, starting with risk groups, and no one should pay for health care. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, would you excuse me?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0069par0381	Hail, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0066par0382	Dear friends, of course you don't like it when I tell you the truth, but it's the truth. I, if you'll excuse me, make a call to our citizens: Dear citizens, look, we're talking about the most human things; it's the responsibility of the state to give each of us our most basic rights for free. Here, we must fight and organize to win this right. The epidemic clearly showed that the capital arrangement that put the money in the center is a disgrace to the lives of the people. We need a society, a public order. It requires a system where basic services and all basic rights are not sold or exploited. For years, I've been finishing my speeches at all the meetings I've attended, saying, "Long live Socialism!" Now, the court shows that socialism is for living!
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0070par0387	Not in the world, not in the world!
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0071par0388	Now our Afyonkarahisar MP Gültekin Uysal. Here you go, Mr. Softy.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0072par0391	Dear President, very dear MPs, first of all, I salute you all. Like other nations, our nation and our state are facing the first major crisis of the new world, the new global world, perhaps on a global scale. From now on, we face a major crisis where state capacity is tested and states are tested as well as immune systems. Today, since it's defined as a pandemic, we're able to do the actual assessments of the seriousness of this pandemic together here. Unfortunately, despite the way our nation, the public, the political party leader and representatives, have raised credit to the Minister himself, and the way the process has been managed so far, we can't express a very positive opinion despite the fact that creditability has been recognised. Despite all that, I'd like to thank Mr. Secretary for his position since the beginning of the process. Mr. Akdağ has just stated that the Ministry of Health has a plan on pandemics that have happened before, and he's implementing them according to this plan. What we're looking for today is the number of studies on this pandemic in Turkey, is it sufficient to get results from studies, and can our system, unfortunately, respond to every suspicious and risky application? We've asked these questions so far. Of course, from this moment on, the critical threshold has been passed in Turkey, and as the number of cases increases, we are also concerned that the shortcomings in our health care system, therefore, have not been learned from the past pandemic experience. Another concern in the world is the wave of post-truth, which spread rapidly before Covid-19. We see that more rapid, positive negative news, especially on social media channels, is causing our citizens to panic. The biggest concern is the question of the authenticity of information shared by official sources. Because we know from certain calculations how power plays for the security of power, even with the statistical knowledge of the most reliable institutions of the state. If we go out to the street now, who believes in these numbers? Unfortunately, you and I can't get satisfying answers. It's not because people are strangely afraid of the virus, it's because they can't trust power's explanations. However, his statements to the President's capital representatives, who are in good spirits, and who are in power propaganda, cause us also to be concerned about the awareness of power. While we do not find it right to send a political message in the hope of a national campaign, under this roof, which we consider a solution, we are obliged to conduct certain interrogations within the consciousness of the authority we have received from our nation. Dear General Assembly, we can find the right approach with God's faith, from the believer of Tedbir, from God's faith. We also find it odd that the president should be encouraging confidence rather than procrastinating. The public deals with epidemics. The government takes precautions for the nation, and the nation obeys these measures, warnings, and suggestion. However, the state cannot recommend patience and prayer, especially in such a matter. After hours of meeting, the head of state appeared before our nation with suggestions no more than the suggestions of a citizen on the street. In a serious matter like this, I find the attitude of yesterday and other events we've encountered to be unsustainable. In such a situation as this, which has grown frighteningly and caused loss, on the one hand, do not leave the house for three weeks. On the other hand, it is surprising that you do not offer a measure of how to live. I'm afraid a package of forbidden suffragettes has been announced on this scale, as it consumes its spare accents.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0073par0401	Let's move on, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0072par0402	Unfortunately, those who work day-to-day, or even manage their lives with tips, are not satisfied with the small, medium-sized business owners and employees who are forcing their employees to take a free leave, who are starting to check out their employees because their businesses will remain closed in the process. We're even more concerned that new recruits are being added to the existing unemployed army. A citizen who was eagerly awaiting yesterday's announcement and was afraid of the virus until yesterday has now fallen into a new and greater fear - fear of livelihood, fear of creditors, fear of life. Dear lawmakers, in order to avoid this unprecedented crisis around the world with the least amount of damage, we expect all sectors, including government and public institutions, to pass on the necessary measures, in time, beyond what they have taken so far. We also expect citizens to act in a sense of responsibility and to follow every precaution taken to the letter.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0073par0405	Hail, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0072par0406	On this occasion, I wish our two citizens, who have lost their lives, to an immediate cure for all our sick, infected citizens. I ask the Lord God to protect our nation from worse. Yours truly.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0073par0409	Now, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0074par0410	I have a brief request before I make a promise to the Minister, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0073par0411	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0074par0414	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, welcome. We wish you once again success in these difficult days to all the Ministry and all the health workers. After our speaker's speech, they made a note of an important matter. Mr. Secretary, on the day of the quarantine of citizens from the community -- especially because they're old people -- our police have helped them. They say they're carrying their bags, going out with them, putting them in their dorms, even accompanying those who've been forced to climb the stairs, putting their beds together, but since then, we've never been allowed to take any quarantine measures...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0075par0418	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0074par0419	Those who have children lie in fear elsewhere and do not go home. They say that these 14 days rule did not apply to us. They have a warning. We wanted to say that, we wanted to remind you. And Mr. Minister, Mr. Mevlüt Çağoğlu, Mr. Süleyman Soylu, Mr. Hulusi Akar, Mr. Hakan Fidan, Mr. Fahrettin Altun, Mr. İbrahim Kalt, Mr. Ömer Çelik, they attended the President's visit to Brussels; these eight ministers or senior presidents. From that day on, they're operating on their own. They all attended a meeting together yesterday. I told you yesterday, I hope there's glass compartments between them. But they did... so we're telling everyone to be careful about this 14-day rule. I call 11 members of our group every morning. How's the rest of the house going?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0075par0422	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0076par0423	But Coral Danış Beştaş was exempt from it the other day, wasn't he?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0074par0424	Who was exempt?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0077par0425	Ms. Meral was exempt.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0076par0426	Ms. Meral was exempt the other day when she came here.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0074par0427	Ma'am, I'm the vice president of the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0077par0428	You're not telling him anything.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0074par0429	No, we did, and so does your Deputy Director of the Group. If the lady is curious, the Vice President of the People's Democratic Party has also been reminded of a visit abroad, and we have never seen her again. I'm saying something technical. These measures don't apply to these Ministers, do they have something like this: we did a benefit-private analysis, and we're keeping the ministers out of these 14 days? These ministers have close quarters, following journalists, all exempt from these 14-day rules, but in the end, do they have the potential to capture this virus and spread it, or not? Most of all, they're already a threat to close colleagues. We think this matter needs to be cleared up. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0078par0432	Mr. Secretary, have them come in.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0079par0434	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0074par0435	You're saying you're black and you're black! I'm saying something wrong, you're saying something wrong...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0080par0436	Don't call me that! I said you. That's no way to say it!
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0079par0437	First of all, I want to thank all of our party groups for their sensitivity to the subject.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0074par0438	Your pot is black, and ours is black!
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0080par0439	You say what you want, you don't say what you want, Mr. Free!
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0074par0440	That's what I told you. Ask your Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0080par0441	Don't!
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0081par0442	Did you tell the ministers?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0074par0443	Do you tell the ministers?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0081par0444	Do you tell the ministers? It's easy to accuse others of being useful, don't you think?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0082par0445	Mr. Secretary, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0083par0446	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0081par0447	You can't just laugh like that!
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0084par0448	We learned from you, sir!
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0081par0449	You can't just laugh, ma'am. You can't laugh.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0084par0450	We learned from you!
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0081par0451	You will not do it yourself when you say to others as it does to your work.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0085par0452	Yeah, okay, he's here, all right.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0086par0453	Mr. Secretary will explain, please, lawmakers.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0081par0454	It's so dirty! Answer him if you have any criticism, just do not answer HDP. Don't you have anything else?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0085par0455	He's here, he's here, he's here now.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0087par0456	Well, the provocation part of this job was the lady's provocation.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0085par0457	Guys, it's okay.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0088par0458	What a shame, what a shame! You should be ashamed of what you've done, really.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0085par0459	What a shame! What are you doing! Right now, after the Deputy Director of the Group arrives, we should all be quarantined under normal circumstances, so let's go!
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0089par0460	Ministers?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0088par0461	Can't it be after your ministers arrive?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0085par0462	The Minister will speak, then; don't go on, let it go.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0088par0463	We're responding to criticism.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0090par0464	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0091par0466	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I'd like to thank all our party groups for their sensitivity to the subject. I'd like to say that I believe that we're all going to overcome this epidemic together more and more. From here, I've noted some of the things that have fallen on us. I want to thank Mr. Dursun Muşat Dervisoglu, Mr. Sefer Aycana, Mr. Mehmet Rüş Tiryaki, Mr.Tekin Bingleye, Mr. Recep Akdağa, Mr. Mustafa Destici, Mr. Erkan Basha, Mr. Gültekin Uysal, and our Deputy Presidents of the Group. I'd like to make a few statements regarding the issues discussed. In particular, our medical staff -- including our ICE and our 112 team -- have been heavily supported by carrying their luggage, packages, and zemzems at the appropriate time. But in this period, we first gave our staff the masks they needed at the point of protection, and in the process, if there are people who don't use these masks, who don't protect themselves, we'll do them for 14 days. I'm here to thank the friends who provided this support. Other than that, 29,000 people were said not to be appointed especially during this period. 29,000 people were appointed last year, and you know the rest of them were last -- at the end of February -- this year -- there was a setback like this. And for this year, with the support of our President, I would like to express in particular that we have a work and effort at this time, especially at the point of the staff and assistant medical staff. Other than that, they were asked if the killings were enough. What we have is a kit, a kit that we make, and a kit that operates in a PCR method, which can now land in seventy-five minutes. Moreover, robotic production was made to ensure more reliable work and intensive work.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0092par0471	Is the ministry producing it, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0091par0472	It's also made of robotics, and all the intellectual property rights are in the Ministry.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0092par0473	Is the Ministry producing bioeksen?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0091par0474	I'm talking about the State Department of Idea property rights, and it's our USAŞ company that's been selling in this period. At this time, we now have 115 thousand kits, and it can produce at least a million a month; at any time, it can go up to 2 million at any time. So we don't have a lock problem right now. We've increased our central numbers. What did we raise it on? It's the Science Board that determines who, when, in which case, should be tested, the algorithm, which means which patients should be seen as suspicious, and which patients should be taken from which patients, the Science Board, which determines that. But since it's a dynamic structure, it's been changed day after day, so the first Chinese stories, the ones with the Iranian stories, then the ones with the European stories, then the ones with the European stories, and now we're out of the one with the foreign story, and at the point of getting out of every case that's suspicious in this sense, we've come to an algorithm. So that number is going to be increased in the following period. Second, we need to prevent what we call "filmination." So when one person was identified, who could he have infected? This is an important issue of public health. In fact, at this point, we've made our professor at a university responsible, and at this point, we've made him responsible for a teacher that we know is competent and capable. Here, we also have a busy study of this particular contagion, and in the coming period, the number of trials and cases may grow more and more. Other than that, they're currently working at 18 centers. I also said three days ago that the PCR method, including our universities, is compatible with this PCR method -- who wants to work -- that it can work, including Hacettepe, Ankara, Chapa, Surgery. They were given training. In fact, two of the foundation universities also started today. So you can be sure that we're taking the process in an effort to use the country's savings, in a transparent way, whoever, whatever, whatever, whatever they can. Also, it has just been mentioned, I want to make this clear about the death of Mr. Pasha, Aytaç Yalman Pasha. Four days ago, our old hospital is being applied to and intubated as soon as it arrives. He's a patient who's been followed by a C.O.A.D. About six hours later, it is accepted as an "ex," and the test at the time is negative. But even though the clinical find -- especially when it's becoming more and more recent -- is lung and similar, KOAH, it's being scanned with the idea that it might be suspicious. Just to tell you what we're doing. I mean, everyone's being scanned, including his wife, including the army house, including who he's been in contact with. During this scan, there were positives, including his wife. When? Yesterday. In this case, in a case like this, can it be negative at first, then positive? Maybe. We barely know this one. Two, I'll tell you the opposite: we have a positive case that's positive at first and is still in intensive care, which is negative after three days, which is positive after seven days. So on day one, in terms of positive ICU, three days later, negative. It's said to be a window period -- we barely know this one. So in this period of time, how we approach with precision, even in a case like this, without waiting, without waiting, that we've come out in the early period of fission -- contagion, scanning -- don't touch anywhere, including their protection, until we run some tests and maintain 14 days of time, we've taken no contact. His wife and friends in the hospital may have interpreted it as "Coronavirus." Thus, the number of cases that died in this sense became three. I wish them God's mercy and patience and condolences on their relatives. There's an antigen kit -- a fast antigen kit -- and we want to do an antigen test, and we want to make this scan more common in all of our 81 counties in the next 36 counties, which will be delivered to us in 15 minutes, which will be delivered to us in the morning. So, in the coming period, we're going to be very focused on these scans and the tests. I mean, I said 10-15 grand a day, and I think it's going to increase the number of fast masses together, especially in terms of providing contagion. In South Korea, with these fast kits, 250 grand complete, will we get that number? More than that, he could get caught; I want to say this, for the test. Other than that, there was talk of talks about professional organisations. I met him a week later, and we talked about it for hours. Can't the trade organisation feel itself inside the 30-person Science Board, which is the savings of all of Turkey, regardless of where it stands?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0093par0482	You have to ask TTB for the answer, Mr. Secretary, does he feel it or not?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0091par0483	I, look, in good faith... what would you be... this is a very important time, a very important struggle, and in the early days of this, we called it the problem global, the struggle national. It's really such a big deal. I don't think even one person has the right to disrupt this perception, this union at this time.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0094par0485	All together, Mr. Secretary, all together.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0091par0486	Because I want to tell you that politics through health is not going to cure any politician. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] I don't think our staff is very important at this time...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0095par0489	Mr. Secretary, wait a minute... Mr. Secretary, who are you telling? No, who are you talking to?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0096par0490	To all of us.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0091par0491	I'm not saying this by targeting someone, I'm not just targeting the Council.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0095par0492	Oh, okay.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0091par0493	Other than that, there are a lot of companies who are really, really opportunistic about material, and at this point, we're very determined, we're preventing exports abroad, but at the same time, we know that we've made a lot of effort to get over it. At the point of solving the supply problem during this period, make sure that we do what we have to do with all the responsibility we have to do. I've sent 50,000 masks every day, including universities, which they didn't ask for, and I've just mentioned it. I said we don't want any fee, any invoice -- never. And we'll be doing it from now on, because at this point, I believe this struggle should be done in a form of mobilization. I believe that this struggle can be fought by the health army, and that our army should be highly motivated by those who are actually working with sacrifice and sacrifice, who are taking risks at this time, and who are interfering with patients. That's why I specifically expressed it in a few sentences, in my speech.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0097par0494	Minister, have the pneumonia patients from February 1st been tested for this?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0091par0495	I'll tell you something else. I'm glad you asked that question. I think it was two weeks ago, the Science Council said: "We don't see that there may be cases that have died of pneumonia in some way, which may actually be positive because of pneumonia. We've scanned the five provinces that we've taken samples of, which we've done before -- here, especially Istanbul -- they haven't come out. Mr. President, I'd like to thank you all for the opportunity to make a statement in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll get through these days together. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit01spe0098par0499	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0098par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise two congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Konya MP Abdullah Ağralı, who wants to talk about the corona virus. Here you go, Mr. Akralı.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0099par0008	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute you all. Mr. President, in the meantime, I wish you the best of luck with your new assignment. Yesterday was March 18. March 18th is the 105th anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale, a symbol of our unity, our unity, our brotherhood, our future struggle. I hereby bless all our martyrs. Again, on March 16, 1988, I have blessed nearly 5,000 Kurdish brothers who were killed in Aleppoce with apple-scented chemical gases. Dear friends, as you know, the corona virus, which emerged in Wuhan, China, on December 12th, soon surrounded the world, and was declared by the World Health Organization as a pandemic all over the world. Our country has managed and continues to run a very successful process so far, with decisive measures in its time for this global epidemic. Our country is actually at the top of the most risky countries in its geographical position. Although both Europe and Asia and the Middle East and African countries are under serious global epidemic pressure, policies at the right time have been carried out very successfully so far. I would like to express my gratitude to Mr. Health Minister Fahrettin Big Bey and all the medical staff members who have led this campaign very successfully. Now, there's been a lot of talk about the corona, and I'd like to briefly mention a few things over time. There are many dimensions to this struggle. Right now, we've taken every precaution against possible outbreaks of this virus coming into our country and existing, against bad scenarios. I'd like to share a few data to indicate our country's current health capacities. The total number of beds in our country is 239,046. Our number of intensive care beds, including adult and child intensive care, is close to 40,000. Intensive care is far above the European average in terms of the number of beds that reach 100,000 people compared to other countries. The European average is around 11; Germany is around 29 in Italy, 12 in Italy and 11.6 in France; our total number of intensive care beds is around 40 per cent in our country as of 2018 data. Again, we have 99,797 single patients in our hospitals. These sick rooms have infrastructure that can be converted into intensive care and isolation if necessary. Again, we're at a good point in terms of our contact, negative and positive pressure bed count. Again, our 418 hospitals in our country have a total of 5.842 beds of palliative care, which can be used in case of need. Again, our total number of ventilators is around 20,000 to be used in adult intensive care in terms of technical hardware. Now, there's been a lot of talk around here, but in time, I'd like to say two things: this is a virus, a known germ, coronavirus, and in the work done, a virus that does not show 80 per cent atypical sempton, 14 per cent require medical care, and 6 per cent requires serious intensive care support. Therefore, one of the main points of the struggle for detection of this virus is not to go out, stay at home. Because when we go out, there's a good chance we'll get this infection and it's asymptomatic, so it's better to get infected. Our Minister has made the necessary statements. What's important here is that these asymptomatic cases are detected very quickly. This shows that in the coming days, the number of cases will rise and death rates will appear, and we are prepared for that. I believe we'll get through this with all our institutions and organizations without panic. Only some of the other speakers have expressed in the work. So staying at home, not leaving home is a scientific reality. And the painting here is just to show the rate of spread of the virus in the study, and if the studies of the 100 patients left at home are zero, then the death rate in 25,000 cases is 500; if we can get them to stay at around 25 percent, there will be 5,000 cases, and the mortality rate of death will appear around 100. Again, if we can achieve a 50% stay-at-home rate, 40 cases from 2,000 cases will die here, and if we keep the stay-in rate at 75 percent, the number of cases will be around 4.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0100par0021	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0099par0022	That would take advantage of her stay-at-home time. Really, everything as a state has been done and measures are being taken quickly. We have to do our part as citizens. I'd like to point out that every health system has its own capacity. Right now, we're one of the most prepared and well-accessed countries in Europe. What's important here is to make sure that this epidemic doesn't go down in a hurry to make sure that the health care loads of these health organizations don't get under serious pressure. In this respect, our citizens need to be both careful, and in the future, especially in April, the seasonal flu will increase, the allergic flu will increase, and in these cases, it is important not to go to health organizations in a panic. Again, because I see something particularly important in my territory, I want to share: we have about 4.5 million expats abroad; they're starting to return to our country as of May, and I think it would be appropriate for our citizens, especially those with chronic diseases, kidney failures, and dialysis to delay their arrival in Turkey.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0101par0026	Hail, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0099par0027	I hereby salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0101par0029	The second off-the-book statement belongs to Army MP Mustafa Adýllül, who wants to talk about the outbreak of the coronavirus. Here you go, Mr. Nice Name.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0102par0033	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I'd like to start my conversation with the medical staff. Yesterday was March 18. Just as our army was the architect of this military victory a hundred years ago, today we will be the architects of this medical victory, and today we will not mention the institutions or soldiers of this health army in the package of economic measures announced yesterday. There's nothing in the package for public hospitals or employees. At least three months of delayed payments to private health care could have taken a moment to make this period. In these difficult days, our health workers deserve more than a round of applause when they're away from their family, fighting the virus and working at risk. I leave that to the conscience of the rulers and to the discretion of the people. The Minister of Health has enough praise, and as a physician, I have to express the missing parts. Between the appearance of the first case in China and the discovery of the first case in our country, two and a half months have been wasted. As a member of the Science Board said, we failed to be like South Korea, where the process was well-run, and now we try not to be like Italy, where the process is badly managed. Why do I call the Minister of Health successful? Because most ministers of this country's power are very bad in performance, we call the few ministers who do their job normal good. The answer to that in science can be explained by the theory of relativity. In this context, the Minister of Health is actually the one who does his duty normally, and if it's considered good, it can be called relative to others. So, what are the health minister's shortcomings in the process? One: the Iranian border has failed to implement its decisions on time, and air traffic and land have been lax in border crossings. Two: There is no information on the distribution and contact stories of test positive cases according to the provinces; society is uneasy; it is contrary to that in many countries. Three: Inadequacy in the number of diagnostic tests is the part where he takes the most broken notes. In countries that keep the number of tests high around the world, the disease is well under control, while in low countries, it seems to be getting out of control. In many countries, the clinic has been tested with suspicion without a condition for contact. That's not how it's done in our country. Tests per million are 3,800 per million in South Korea, 350 in England, and we have only 24 (24) in our warnings, but in recent days, it has reached about 100 per million. We're learning that different practices in the country only test in public hospitals. From now on, test kits must be sent to every hospital in 81 districts without any special-public distinctions. Four: the decision-making process in sports. Many similar countries have postponed all leagues, even EURO 2020 has been postponed, and we have decided to play without an audience. It is treated not as a Federation President who considers clubs and sports health, but as the CEO of the publishing company and the betting companies. In my opinion, one of Turkey's most troubled people is the president of the Turkish Football Federation; he has made a decision, and now he's not going to stand behind it, but he's in between. Fifth, umre returns. For one thing, the last Umre caravan left on February 27th, which the Anadolu Agency reported on the same day had already announced that Saudi Arabia had suspended their visit to Umre. If Saudi Arabia hadn't suspended them, it would've been like a visit to Umre. In the days of the return of the Umre caravan, there were 62 cases in Saudi Arabia. All of the Umretics are supposed to be quarantined, but half of them are at home for 14 days, and half of them on responses have been quarantined. From now on, it is necessary to monitor close medical supervision and door-to-door inspections until the nurses and all the individuals in contact complete 14 days. Six: The most important problem possible in the process is the lack of an ICU bed and a respirator. In any case, the need for a bed that does not meet the need before the outbreak will greatly increase along with the epidemic. According to my calculations -- you can only evacuate intensive care beds 30 to 40 per cent; in this context, Turkey will have a crisis in intensive care beds and respirators when the number of cases exceeds 50,000. Let's not lose patients in this country without a ventilator. Therefore, my call to the Minister of Health is that the breathing devices that are already produced by 3 companies, which have state, adequate technology, and our large holdings, must be seized and started quickly. Because when that need comes, every country will be in its own hurry, and there will be no outside supply. We'll make more if we have to, and we'll get it out. The crisis times of countries are both difficult and open to other technological developments. This process may lead to improvement in the medical equipment sector, as it did in Germany in World War II.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0103par0044	Complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0102par0045	And there's a ban on contracting men from the barracks outside the barracks. While other military personnel can go home under certain circumstances, the contractors have been away from their families for days and worry. With the exception of quarantine and medical measures, other military personnel must be provided to benefit from the benefits they receive. Congressmans, I want you to know that I do not do these criticisms for criticism, but for identification, warning, and contribution. The virus, the AKP, doesn't separate it as CHP. Ten days ago, we fought around this bench, and our people blamed us. Everyone must be sure that we can unite in the interests of this country around this bench that we fought on that day, while the country is under total threat today. I don't want any of our citizens to worry that we're going to get through this with all my fellow lawmakers and all my fellow paramedics on the field. The next 15 days are critical; if we can have the remaining days of March, then it will be good. So it's spring at the end of March. Thank you all very much.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0104par0050	Congressmans, now, I'm going to promise the first 15 lawmakers who enter the system to their place for a minute. Mr. Aydemir, please.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0105par0054	Mr. President, thank you very much. Yesterday was the anniversary of our victory in Çanakkale, and we all celebrated, and we brought our martyrs to life, and God bless them. I want to record a vein that reflects today, especially today, at the House, at this nation's temple. It's supposed to be on a ground where those who want to clean up the body so badly, in a vasatta, in spite of it, Job Sabri Tuncer, our local cologne, which, despite demand, supports his nation against the condition of the corona, not the price of its demand, but its production. This is the commercial vein of the national spirit on March 18, 1915. These kind of approaches riven our consciousness of being a nation, leading to the increase of the good. Congrats on the owners and the people who've done this kind of equivalent movement, and I wish they'd set an example. Thank you all.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0106par0059	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0107par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. This time I don't want to address Mr. Power, but Mr. AK PARTI MPs. Dear friends, all the measures taken by the Ministry of Health are well-adjusted. However, yesterday, Mr. President announced a 19-point economic package, free of the expectations of citizens. What's not in this package? No poor, no weird guru, no electricity bills, no gas bills, no SEC premiums, no stocks, no tradesmen's credits, no taxes, no free Internet, no tenants' business. Dear friends, there's a three-month delay. I mean, three months from now, people from the coronavirus aren't going to die, they're going to die of unemployment, they're going to die of bankruptcy, they're going to die of something else. So let's, together as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as lawmakers, build a project that will solve the problems of these merchants, of all citizens, and make a law. That's what I'm asking you, that's what citizens expect. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0108par0065	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0109par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. One of the six verses of the Republican People's Party is the principle of statehood. This principle was not accepted for nothing. It's not the principle that public manufactures everything from needle to thread. The goal is that strategic products can be produced enough for the country when necessary. It's not about profit, it's about public health and safety. Now, when the need for cologne and disinfection increased, when we needed ethanol, we remembered our sugar factories. Even if you have money, you can't buy ethanol from abroad. You can get that ethanol from the sugar mills you sell like a bologna pie. While we were calling it a lie and a loss to the state, we were saying that sugar is a country, not a country. If it weren't for those sugar factories, you wouldn't be able to produce an ounce of cologne right now. Fortunately, the people who founded the Republic were not like you, but they thought of everything, taking lessons from the tribulations, building an economic model and factories that fit. We want to hear the name of a factory he built from the AKP.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0108par0069	Here you go, Mr. Ünver.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0110par0071	In the fight against the Coronavirus, our health workers are on the front line, and I want to thank them on behalf of our nation. It is not possible for this crisis to survive with minimal damage to every aspect of life through simple administrative regulations. In this environment, important tasks have also fallen to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and it must make arrangements for the legal gaps that may occur immediately. In this sense, the 74 county bar of my colleagues, the lawyer, has applied to the Ministry of Justice, demanding that all trials be postponed, including electronic notifications, and all times in the judicial and administrative judiciary be halted. If this legal arrangement is not carried out, there may be criminal and financial responsibility for our colleagues in the case of possible abductions, as well as loss of rights for their clients. The Parliament must quickly move from the audience to the position where it is actively legislating.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0111par0075	Mr. Ceylan
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0112par0077	After March 31st, the palace developed a new way to remove the mayors he failed to win in the polls, and he loved it. The court justice, which defied national will on March 31st and helped renew Istanbul's elections, now follows the way of the Republican People's Party's elected mayors to be removed illegally from office with the help of the Ministry of Interior. First our mayor, Vefa Salman, who has done successful work in Yalova, has been dismissed, and then Kadir Aydar Adar, who made a difference in his work at Adana Ceyhan, is asked to be suspended. The President of Loyalty is identifying irregularities and pressing charges against the Republic's prosecution. Conclusion: the thief's capture is relieved of duty. The head of Accounting Affairs, which has been found to have only been corrupt in the municipality of Biga Silverchay, where the Yalova is similar. Where's the justice in all this?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0111par0078	Dear Sugar.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0113par0080	Mr. President, thank you. Recently, regular subpoenas have continued to be drafted. We've learned from the World Health Organization that even though the quarantine period is 14 days, these diseased individuals and the infected can infect it up to 37 days. This needs to be taken care of. I'm thinking new recruits need to be stopped for a semester if necessary. Meanwhile, measures in the working conditions of health care workers with the biggest risk need to be increased. We need paramedics more than ever this semester. First, let's protect the health of the medics so we can protect the health of the public. By the way, the ironic days were the doctor's complaint line, and now he's turned from doctor to helpline. On these ironic days, let's show the medics the respect they deserve.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0114par0084	Mr. Etmez...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0115par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. Our elders are our values that allow us to carry our culture and our spiritual values to the future, leaving us with our inheritance. We see them as guides for us and a source of peace for our home. If any young person respects an elder because of his age, God will create people to serve him in his old age. He emphasizes the importance of our elders. As an AK PARTY, we've established a social welfare system that surrounds our elders. As we raise your minimum pension to 1,500 liras, we give bonuses to our pensions at Ramadan and the Festival of Sacrifice. We started an Elder Support Program so that our elders could live in their homes. Our dear elders, you are our most precious. Please, let's not leave our homes during this time, let's postpone our visits. I wish that our elders would have a healthy and peaceful life.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0116par0091	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0117par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. As part of Operation Spring Shield, Heromarash Elbistan resident Corporal Oguzhan Taş was killed today as a result of the terrorist rocket attack. May God have mercy on our martyrs and all our martyrs, and my condolences on our family and our nation. Saturday (March 21st) is the night of Miraç, also the day of Nevruz. Happy Miraç, happy Nevruz. It is also the anniversary of the death of the Islamic scholar, great thinker, sociologist, sociologist Ibn Haldun. According to Ibn Haldun, the sign of a society's collapse, the loss of solidarity, the lack of production, the lack of consumption, the increase of taxes, the disregard of justice, the spread of hope, the acceleration of migration, demonic pride, vanity, hypocrisy and flattery, and worst of all, a community that ignores and accepts all of this as if it were normal.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0118par0097	Mr. Girgin...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0119par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. Announcing an economic package against Corona, Mr. President told the head of the boss organization that you were in a good mood. That's exactly what happened: cheer for the bosses, prayer for the unemployed, and patience for the poor. The powder from the treasure was finished last year. The ring came out with cologne and a mask. The VAT was 1 per cent in food, cleaning and medicine, while VAT was 1 per cent in flight tickets in an environment where there was no way out. Our people need food, cleaning, and medicine, not flying during this period. In all workplaces, layoffs must be banned, employees must be paid a month's pay, electricity, natural gas and water bills must be suspended, unemployment funds should be used for workers, family insurance should be implemented, no victims of 190,000 teachers who cannot be paid for their studies, health workers are short-staffed, the shop-closed shopkeeper must be paid for rent, checks and bonds must be postponed. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0120par0104	Mr. Chepni...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0121par0106	Thank you, Mayor. The Coronavirus epidemic is spreading, but the concerns of our working people are increasing at that rate. The AKP President announced a precautionary package yesterday and raised concerns. As the package transfers funds to the capital, it leaves millions of workers to die. While the workers continue to work, the government calls for you to stay in the homes. That's a complete hypocrisy. Midpoint's trying to get luxury restaurant chain employees to sign a 15-day free permit form; this is just an example. All employees must be given a paid permit, all health care must be provided free of charge.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0122par0109	Mr. Borrower...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0123par0111	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs... The hills of the martyrs are not empty, The heroes await your land! And to wave a flag, The wind is waiting! An orphan of legend, an unknown soldier of silence, The shrine suits this blessed hill. The soil he lies in is clear, The flag he's holding is clear, Says Arif Nihat in the poem "The Unknown Soldier." In Çanakkale, they never thought to return. The dialogue that sums up the determination in the history of the harp is very meaningful: "My commander, the soldier who says that the rifle is broken and does not press the trigger, is the place where the heroic epic called your finger has been severed, Çanakkale. There was opportunity in the enemy, faith in Mehmetchik. That's what made Çanakkale impossible. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0124par0123	Here you go, Mr. Durmusoglu.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0125par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. We continue to take every precaution to minimize the spread of the pandemic of the coronavirus, which has been a global problem since the day it emerged. From the very beginning, our country has been closely monitoring the development of this disease and quickly implementing its measures. After a citizen of our health ministry announced that the Covid-19 test was positive on March 10th, our measures were quickly taken, each of which has been identified as a risk to society, thanks to the selfless efforts of our health workers. We lost two citizens aged 89 and 61. I wish God's mercy to the people who have lost their lives, and my condolences to their relatives. In order to minimize the effects of Covid-19, a 100 billion-dollar source has been activated under the leadership of our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Hopefully, we'll all get through this difficult process together. I salute the General Assembly, saying again that no virus can be greater than the measures taken from Turkey, the union of the Turkish nation, the union, the brotherhood, and the measures taken from us.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0126par0129	Here you go, Mr. Goldstone.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0127par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Health Minister, they've left, but I'd like to express my gratitude to all of our dedicated medical staff in their individuals. I have some questions I'd like to ask the Minister. First of all, the Ministry isn't transparent enough. For example, we don't even know what provinces the sick and the missing are from. Who allowed 20,000 people to go to Umre after it became clear that the virus had spread in China and other countries. While the last 5,000 troops wanted to be quarantined unprepared, the students who stayed in the dorms were kicked out of the dorms in the middle of the night. Still, unhygienic dorms are being used for quarantine. While schools were closed, mass nays were allowed in mosques, causing risk groups, especially at an advanced age, to be exposed to the virus. Until two weeks ago, the Home Office was implementing open border policy. Two million fugitives have entered from the Iranian border and are still entering. Did it count the possibility of getting infected with them? Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0128par0135	Mr. Aycan...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0129par0137	Mr. President, this week is Senior Week. The elderly are referred to as the population over 65 years of age. 8 percent of our population is over 65 years old. Old age is an organic state, all different. In old age, the resistance to disease is different, and there is a good chance that more diseases and diseases will be severe. That is why elderly people need special care. The medical, social, and psychological needs of the elderly must be met. It's the need to be a social government. Let's not forget, one day we'll be old. Let's show all the attention we need to the elderly, especially as our parents. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0128par0139	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0130par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating March 18th and 24th, Week of Respect for the Old. In our civilization, our elders are the blessings of our home, of our furnace. Our elders are people who remind us of the values that hold our society together. Respect and respect for the elderly are the basis of our happiness in this world and the Hereafter. Let's not forget we're all old tomorrows. Under the leadership of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we have implemented and continue to implement many projects in terms of minimizing and resolving the problems our elders face. These days, the Coronavirus epidemic has taken over the entire world, and we're witnessing understandings in some European countries that kind of dismiss the elderly. We have adopted a periodical monitoring program for our elderly, who live alone in social services and home health services, as an expression of the value given to our elderly at the Coronavirus co-motivation meeting yesterday, and I respectfully salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0131par0144	Now, Mr. Group, I'm going to meet the VP's demands. Deputy Chairman Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu. Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0132par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly again. Our nation was anxious to hear the President's statement after a co-motive meeting to fight the coronavirus. We see in the plan of action that the mountain has given birth to mice. The package has no regulation on student loans, loans, farm debt, although there is no interest in the matter, and there are various arrangements in the 10th article that encourage loans and new opportunities for contractors. We know what kind of crisis the Turkish economy is facing, but it's making fun of our nation's mind that only connects the future crisis to the virus epidemic. In a sense, this crisis in our economy points to the point where the model of the palace economy brings Turkey. Instead of lightening the burden of our citizens under loan debts, the package is concerned with putting new loan costs on our citizens' backs. On the one hand, when the government issued a warning, we were able to reduce VAT from 18 per cent to 1 per cent in the package he announced, saying, "We have removed the housing tax." The government urged us to send a vacation, while at the housing sale we have reduced the down payment from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. Small trades and businesses and those who are granted free leave of absence continue to be uneasy. This package does not contain farmers, small incomes and small tradesmen. When people are trying to pay their rent, their credit cards...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0133par0153	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0132par0154	...the package that was announced could not cure any trouble, create no life water, and provide support for our victims. In this package, which corresponds to 100 billion dollars -- about 15 billion US dollars -- prayer for the worker, patience for the tradesman, and cologne for the pensioner. I hereby congratulate our next Miraç Kandili, as well as the Festival of Nevruz of the Turkish world. Also, March 21st is a very important day for me, our former Ankara MP, the 2nd year of the arrival of the former ambassador and great statesman Mr. Sea Company leader, whom I am honored to meet. I hereby bow before his spiritual presence, and in front of his memories, and may I say not to call it a seizure of passion, but I am deeply moved.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0133par0157	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0132par0158	I'm sad to lose a friend who can't be replaced by what he's added to us. I salute the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0133par0160	Nationalist Movement Party Group Deputy President Mohammed Levent Nightingale... Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0134par0163	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to express our respect and mercy to him again in the death of our dear, precious politician, dear senior Mr. Sea Company head, from the rare pilgrims that Turkey has raised at the beginning of my speech. He was a very important person who had been serving the state of the Republic of Turkey for many years, who, in love with the country, the nation, was able to look at matters with Turkish national glasses and Turkish state glasses. I remember him again with mercy, and I offer my condolences to his relatives again. [[A round of applause from MHP and GOOD PARTY]] Mr. President, we, of course, have heard today's speech regarding the coronavirus in order to inform our Council of Health. In that sense, we'd like to thank him again for the information he's made. We went through a process where our political parties and other political parties in parliament shared their views, their opinions. Here, we, as the National Movement Party, have come up with a notion that they deserve more than applause -- of course, our Minister has expressed this notion -- that the appointment of some 620,000 health professionals who are waiting for the appointment must be made immediately, and that the law at the point of preventing violence against health personnel -- at this point, there is a law the National Movement Party is offering -- the performance payment of health workers over the top, the ceiling figures.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0135par0168	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0134par0169	...and we say it's very important to provide personal protection materials to all medical personnel, especially in this epidemic process. Of course, Mr. Secretary has had some response statements about these issues as well. We demand the immediate fulfillment of these issues and the issues that we're referring to here. We can't help our medical staff at this point, no matter how much we contribute to our medical staff, who are currently working with great sacrifices. In the meantime, I say the House must do its part in the process, with respect.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0135par0171	Peoples' Democratic Party Group Speaker Mehmet Rüç Tiryaki, Batman MP. Here you are, Mr. Tiryaki.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0136par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, we are going through difficult times, and it seems that this is just the beginning; yes, not just us, but the whole world is going through a difficult time, as if we are in a third world war. The difference between two previous world wars is that all humanity is on the same side here. In this war where humanity was not ready, over 8,000 people lost their lives, and these people were not just a number, each of them was a mother, a father, an uncle, an aunt, a brother, and left a lot of sad stories behind. Great humanity and our country, of course, will survive these painful days, but with great loss. What lesson will be learned from these sufferings, we will see together, but let it be known that we will be following them day by day if they are prepared enough for such epidemics. Mr. President made a statement yesterday for the first time, for some reason the statement was made not at the Presidential Palace, but at the Chankaya Mansion, where the Coronavirus fight co-direction meeting was held. I assure you, everyone was wondering what the measures would be. The first impression was frustrated, and many responded by saying: "Silence and mask have come out of the package for the elderly. " But like everyone else, we had questions, and today we delivered some to the Minister of Health. There were questions everyone was waiting for answers. The Minister of Health has responded to some of it, but an important part of it remains unanswered. There are two things I'd like to discuss, Mr. President. First of all, our MPs, our mayors, are still being followed by unidentified vehicles for almost 24 hours. Finally, our Batman Mayor has made such an application, nearly 24 hours, followed by unidentified people everywhere he goes. The other day, he applied to the police department to see who was in this vehicle, whether it was a security guard or a part of your knowledge. The vehicles have changed, the plates have changed, the people inside have changed, but our mayor is still being followed for 24 hours.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0137par0179	Complete.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0136par0180	Instead of responding, we don't think the police department does this the right way, the right way. If this is the police department, the governor's office, the prosecution or whoever's decision, we expect them to make it very clear. Finally, today is March 19th, and in two days, we will celebrate the festival of Nevroz. In the days of Corona, we will not celebrate the festival of Nevroz as a mass. As a party, we've cancelled all of our collective activities, our mass celebrations. We'll celebrate the holiday at our house, on our balcony, with telephone lights, lighters, and before we get together. Yes, we're canceling our mass activities, but we'll live and live more than ever, the spirit of neurosis, the spirit of resistance, the spirit of solidarity. I'm celebrating the festival of Nevroz, which I hope will bring peace and brotherhood to our country, our peoples, our geography, and the whole world.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0137par0182	Republican People's Party Deputy Chairman Free Special, please.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0138par0184	Thank you, Mr. President. These days, we long for good news, we have just learned of a sad news. We've received two painful reports in two separate cases in the area of Operation Idlib and Spring Shield, and we've learned that two of our soldiers have been martyred. We wish our soldiers God's mercy and patience for their grieving families as the Republican People's Party Group. Today, on the 2nd anniversary of his death, we celebrate the Sea Division head, a very important member of Turkish diplomacy, and later a very serious contribution to Turkey's politics. With his family, we extend our condolences once again to his political friends at the well-being party and the nationalist movement party. In the Coronavirus outbreak, last night, with Mr. Minister's information, we received the report of the second casualty, and slowly, we are now following with a bit of concern the approaches to Turkey's effort not to become an Italy. We've expressed today in the presence of the Minister, not in politics, but in politics, but in political unity, we need to deal with this problem with important, constructive contributions and cooperation. We've never found the process right when one person puts another to the other. Mr. Secretary -- I didn't mean to have any more reciprocal conversations, but we also know that you've been following the transcripts carefully -- there are doctors on the Board of Sciences, and the Turkish Medical Association is making an approach to feel themselves here. It's not a right approach, so it's not the right approach: tomorrow's day -- when you've been chosen and you're supposed to be dealt with -- what if someone took someone with us, and the AK PARTİs are represented here? If he ignores you, it's not yours who voted for you, but the tens of thousands, of them, of course, when this politics happens, will turn into millions.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0139par0189	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0138par0190	If we ignore the will of one person, we deal with one another, and they count themselves here, that would put us in trouble for every one of us, because we represent a power that belongs to the nation, which is not our own, and that is democratic legitimacy, democracy, the election, the thought, the will. It's sad that he gets applause. There are other doctors, let the Turkish Medical Association look at them, feel themselves here; democracy is not like that. A professional organisation, a constitutional institution, established by law, made its choices, you have the right to control it, you even have the right to political custody. If you, as a health authority, disregard an institution that has done everything properly and has been chosen, as the greatest health authority that has ever come with an election outside of you, it will make you question your sense of democracy and your ability to manage a crisis in an instant.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0139par0192	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0138par0193	Also, yesterday -- without his knowledge -- a speech by Dr. Güle Çınar was quickly spread over social media. It's really sad that a health worker who carried out his responsibility as physician and spoke the truth and informed health workers was forced by Ankara University to apologize in writing today and then to share this document on social media. I was tired for days and days and days of sleep, trying to inform my friends. The discomfort of some of the words I'm using in the meantime... is very wrong in forcing a woman's health worker to use their expressions. There's a lesson to be learned from yesterday's video, there's a result to be made, but there's no account to be made of. It's the indiscriminate use of public power and the pressure of political custody that's already been established on the university.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0139par0195	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0138par0196	▪ The sun tightens the sandals, and the shoes tighten the feet. ▪ That is not true. All health workers feel the pressure there. Even Mr. Minister would like to come and do something about health workers in Parliament. He said, "The law of violence is expected in health, and I support it, it's very good these days if the Parliament removes it." He said, "This pressure is not justified, it's not justified." And finally, Mr. President, there was a meeting yesterday, and there's someone in the participants of the meeting, and they're buying something; they're buying capital; they're buying money; they're buying it; they're buying it, the ministers are smiling, but there's no people, there's no people, there's no paramedics, there's no workers, there's no workers, there's no people, there's no workers. They come to themselves with a team that should actually be quarantined, and they explain a $100 billion package, and the newspapers that are the Pravda of power come out with the same headlines. That's what the state would do. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I hope to finish.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0140par0200	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0138par0201	For one thing, the holiday bonus, which will pay the pensioners $12 billion of $100 billion total, has only been moved up for a month, joining the account. It's not gonna happen; you'll pay for it on the holidays, pay for it a month before the holidays, and they put it in the account. There's $5 billion minimum wage support; it's going to be paid anyway, so it's not right to calculate it there. The only thing that's held by hand is that we've got less than £1,500, at least. We've torn ourselves up because we're under £1,500. We're taking what's under $1,000 from yesterday and we're taking it all out for 1,500. It's really interesting, but what we've been saying for years, what we've been saying for months, it's worth $2 billion. Other than that, we're in a process where there's nothing happening to the worker, the worker, the health worker, the health worker, the mountain, the mouse, the expectations are in vain. Mr. President, I'm very sorry to say that I won't name them -- not to give them a share -- but the world, which we don't like -- is a one-female monster from time to time, is at work. Don't be afraid, no one will be unemployed. Don't be afraid, the government is here, no one will starve. Don't be afraid, your government is behind you, no one's economic losses will be compensated.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0140par0203	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0138par0204	By God, Mr. President, if we could only see the headlines of the ruling party's newspapers today, if we didn't see yesterday's meeting, he's the one-female monster. They've heard the talks of the leaders of the countries we call them, and we'll think they've made headlines. A man of state, a president, doesn't look the boss in the eye and joke. If you look into the eyes of workers, farmers, clerks, shoppers, poor people, nobody, don't be afraid, the state is here. Don't be afraid of the bosses with the taxes you've collected from all of them, the state is here. If you say so, it means something, but the heart of those who seek your support is broken, it's broken, I want to express it. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0140par0207	Vice President of the Justice and Development Party, Cahit Özkan. Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0141par0210	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we have followed a useful, successful study today that our Minister of Health has informed us about our country and the coronavirus that threatens the entire world, and that our Group Vice Presidents, our party groups, offer their own opinions. We've discussed our country's contribution to both the participatory democracy and the progress that has been made in the fight against the coronavirus and which way to go next. So I thank our Minister of Health, our political party groups, the non-group political party representatives, our MPs separately. Of course, we thanked our health workers again and applauded them for a long time. If our health minister and other political party groups are protecting our lives, our country, our flag, as our defenses at the front of the war, as well as our own, today our health workers are making sacrifices for our country, for our people, for the future of our beloved nation. At this point, hopefully, we should all try to improve their situation by putting together a package about our health workers' rights, working conditions and fees. Of course, being a state is about focusing on all of the country's issues, all of its problems, and finding solutions to them. At this point, Mr. President announced a package yesterday as head of the community, representing our constitutional order, unity and unity. Of course, the package is not just about business, not just about SMEs, but about pensioners, not just about minimum wage, but about pensioners who can't work -- as part of the social state -- but about the resources of this country, on all four sides of our country, between 82 million...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0142par0215	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0141par0216	Don't worry, there's a state that is the guardian of your trust by making us feel the power, the power of state, the power of our beloved nation. In peace, let's just look ahead by following instructions. He explained a package in his understanding. Of course, this package has a working life. See, our fate is one, 82 million. Our destiny is one." So... it's necessary to take steps to ensure the brotherhood of 82 million in this country, between men and women, young people, without getting the employer to run over, without getting the industrialist to run over the financial circles. For him, let the business world go down, and work life is guaranteed. So, in the union of fate, you have to be able to put all the workers-employee, manufacturer-industrial, male-female communities under a common roof. In this sense, our President's package is being evaluated on the public agenda of Turkey. I don't think it's necessary to express it again.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0142par0218	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0141par0219	However, we are confident that we will be able to overcome this process with minimal damage, without damage, within the scope of the Science Council's work, through the tax system, through loan and principal interest payments, through support to the COBIs, the minimum wage support from increasing KGF limits in the business world, and again, what will be the lowest pension, and with the permission of God, our Minister of Health has made a specific package in all areas, and by God's permission, the decisions made by which our Science Board has done. At this point, we trust our government, our beloved nation, and we trust our nation. We have reason to believe that his head and his head, the government and the rulers, and our beloved nation, side by side, will lead to the success of this struggle. The festival of Nevruz, which is also a harbinger of spring in the cultures of Asia Minor and Central Asia, is celebrated in our country on March 21st, as it is known.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0142par0222	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0141par0223	The festival of Nevruz, the harbinger of spring, where the air begins to warm, and the trees begin to blossom, and the soil grows, and the migratory birds return to their homes. In this context, March 21st is considered the day of awakening, resurrection and creation for all beings. In this occasion, we are having a difficult time, fighting the coronavirus, celebrating the Day of Nevruz, believing that our country, our nation, will be free of this trouble, and we will walk to the bright tomorrows again, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0143par0224	Mr. President, just a minute... one more thing to do with our martyrs, may I complete it?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0142par0225	Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0143par0227	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I wish God's mercy to the martyrs we've been informed of. My condolences to our country, to our nation, to his family, and to his relatives. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Especially at our borders, border crossings, at our border crossings, there's no way we're going to be reminded of the sacrifice that our police forces, our customs officers, our Coast Guard forces, and the gendarmes who've served on our sealines have done so far. And we thank them from here. Their shortcomings, their needs, are a matter of which they will follow us. And I want to thank them for all the work they've done from here, especially for preventing human drama, about immigrants, asylum seekers, and at the same time, day and night about this matter of coronavirus. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0144par0231	Mr. Tujaki...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0145par0233	Thank you, Mr. President. There's one thing we missed, actually, it was in our notes, but... We've never really discussed the measures for the protection of farmers, agriculture, we've jumped. In order to protect farmers, policies must be developed because these people will need to feed, their agricultural fields will need to be protected. We don't know what kind of preparations the Department of Agriculture has made. If villages and agricultural areas are not protected, the government's policies could spread with some of these criticisms. I'm saying that with the protection of farmers at the top of the supply chain, we can avoid serious threats with agriculture being done. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0146par0236	Let's move on to the agenda. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda with the proposals of the Law and other tasks from the Commissions. We will begin negotiations with Denizli MP Nilgün Ök and 46 MPs in the Plan and Budget Commission Report, which are ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Sentop and the Foreign Commission Report (2/2691) on the amendment of the Law on the Compulsory Agreement of the African Development Bank of 1 MP. Commission? He's in position. The Commission's report has been printed and distributed with the number of 197 rows. Aydın Aydın Aydın Adnan Sezgin on behalf of the Good PARTY Group, who wants word on the entire proposal. Here you go, Mr. Sezgin.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0147par0251	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, first of all, I bless our fallen Mehmets today. I also ask God's mercy on our citizens who have died since the outbreak of the coronavirus. I wish our infected patients a speedy recovery. I'd like to thank our medical staff. From now on, I wish no one would declare anyone a traitor in the Covid-19 debates. I've been promised a good deal on the Law Proposal on the Changing of the Dair Law that our participation in the African Development Bank Foundation Agreement is appropriate. The African Development Bank's capital has been increased by 125 per cent. The government wants to increase the investment commitment of our country in the bank, which has increased its capital by 125 per cent, by 752 per cent. It's probably being mixed up with ehem again. Is today the right time for this when we have so much to deal with and so much to deal with? Is this a matter of such haste? Our country has been in a serious economic crisis for a long time. Mr. President, this time the boat will pass. He can't pronounce the phrases in his style. All low-incomes are miserable. Something is growing in Turkey, which is the poor. On the other hand, agricultural support is held for months or even years in our country, which should be the world's granary of grain, and my district's farmer suffers from it. Support premiums are set far below the world's standards. Farmers can't pay their debts; electricity is cut off not only by debtors but by electricity distribution companies, but by the entire village. In the Southeast Anatolian Region, I personally witnessed complaints in my visits in the region that farmers' money had been confiscated due to their debts by the power distribution company. One out of four young people are unemployed, and the crisis of economic crisis and unemployment in society is deepening heavily. It is clear that when all of this is added to the effects of the measures taken on the economy due to the coronavirus, our country is in no position to play a network at the African Development Bank. I can't figure out what kind of economic or diplomatic wisdom is behind increasing our capital share in the African Development Bank. However, I am convinced that this will not contribute to our interests in Africa or to the welfare of our citizens. In this case, the question of who has a desire and a desire to be satisfied by this increase of capital comes to mind, whether they want to or not. Get your hands out of everybody's pockets. A critical process awaits our country. There's increased risk of the coronavirus inside, increasing risk of Idlib and Libya outside. I won't even mention the other threats. While the Coronavirus risk continues to increase, yesterday's announcements by Mr. President have given no positive message to the community, there are no citizens involved. Our vice president of the group told us that the mountain has given birth to mice. The measures have been explained, as Mr. President stated, may have stimulated the joy of a few people and factions, but measures do not indicate a meaningful contribution to large areas, narrow incomes, nor do they offer the hope of resuscitation, resuscitation for the economy, resuscitation, hope of fighting Covid-19. Two and a half million people could die in the United Kingdom and the United States, according to a report by Imperial College's world-famous experts in London. Merkel describes the crisis as the most serious crisis since World War II. We're talking about turning the crisis into an opportunity. There is no human statement, no expression of compassion in the speech of Mr. President. Look at the text of Macron's address to the nation on this subject, and see if you can understand the measures that Macron immediately put into action in terms of economic and health. I'm not talking about the possibility, I'm talking about the mentality. Other countries are mobilising billions of dollars, euros; we can't do it because there's no resources; power is exhausted, and it's exhausted. Another weirdo who looks like Tali but makes a lot of sense: Look, in Europe and in the United States, all football and other sports leagues have been postponed days ago. Including the ice hockey competitions in Russia, days ago, even weeks ago... We were expected to hold the knife against the bone. Again, at the latest, we went to postpone; the decision was just made. What did we do, protect the publishing company, the euphemist Qatar brothers, two weeks? One of the risks our country faces is the risk of foreign policy. In Libya, the situation is becoming increasingly dire. We were supposed to bring Libyan peace and quiet, but the conflicts are concentrated, a new tragedy could happen in the country at any moment, and Turkey is about to become one of the leading actors in this tragedy, and it could also be severely damaged. Hafter keeps Tripoli under heavy pressure. The government of Serrac received no response to its military support from the United States and the United Kingdom, and its open resources are widely processed. Turkey does not already have all the resources to support Serrac's government, which it encourages with commitments it cannot handle. This causes civil war in the country to become more critical and the crisis to increase human risks as well as military. In Syria, the March 5 agreement also confirmed the reality of the field on paper, and according to the government's new statement, the Syrian Arab Republic approved the progress made since December 2019, as the new reality of Idlib. A security shield was set up around M4 Black Road, but the southern side of the road was actually left in control of the regime. Any arrangement for our military observation points out of our control has yet to be found. Unfortunately, power doesn't listen to warnings. We filed a motion to investigate the Coronavirus on January 30th, and it was rejected. We've been warning about Idlib for two years now, and we haven't rested. To understand, power is always waiting to experience or create disaster. But to rule is to choose, to predict. Preferences are always bad, visionary. Today, Russia, the Assad regime, and the PKK/PYD-YPG, the Jihadist armed groups in the region, let's call it more clearly, are seen to have a meeting of terrorist organisations in the region that is very close to the border with Turkey. This, however, should be a short-term solution. What we've been saying for a long time is that our fear that it's becoming more and more inevitable is that the region is being turned around. What's giving up? Peshawar is a region of Pakistan that has become the home of jihadist terrorism, its camp, its territory on the border with Afghanistan. If that happens, then our Hatay and other borders will be threatened. Idlib, as I just said, has been moving rapidly towards becoming the Pashawar of the Middle East, despite warnings that we have made over the years but that we can't get power to listen. Pessaverization, in fact, is a process called the Pessaver syndrome. Peshawar's syndrome is a concept that supports jihadist terrorist organizations, which become the target of these organizations after a while. In short, it can be said that supporting jihadist organisations has a boomerang effect. In Syria, the organizations supported to overthrow the regime will be able to return and shoot us if they fail to fulfill their goal, and there are many examples of such events in the world. The Astana process was actually an important opportunity to avoid this situation; unfortunately, it was a poor negotiation, our necks were bent, and the wrong policies made us subject to others. The Sochi Covenant opened a new window of opportunity for the elimination of jihadist terrorist organisations, which was not considered. Although the March 5 agreement may seem like an extension of the Sochi Covenant, it actually strengthened the hand of Russia and the government of the Arab Republic of Syria -- again -- as they say. Of course, we applaud the decline of the intensity of the conflict, but Russia and the Syrian regime have provided security and control of M4 and M5 Roads, which are vital to them in the region, logistically and strategically, and will push the groups south of M4 to the north. Unfortunately, at the Moscow meeting, I was left with power. As for Iran, it seems that Iran's claims to play a dominant role in the new order in the region are wearing off. In this case, it is also possible that Iran will go through various provocations through Shia organisations in the region to become an effective actor again in the region and render the March 5th agreement dysfunctional. I point out the provocations that can be done by nearby Iranian militias, and I repeat this question: If you were going to say yes to an agreement like this for Idlib, why didn't you accept the same solution proposal, even the same solution proposal that was previously proposed to you at the table? I feel sorry for the martyrs we gave in Idlib, and I remember them with mercy and respect. Dear friends, according to data shared by the United Nations Humanitarian Co-ordination Office, 11 million people still living in Syria are in need of help in some way, and 4.8 million of them are children. The state of hospitals in the country, health care is terrible. Many doctors have left their countries 70 percent of Syrian doctors. Everyone knows that hospitals can only use 60 percent of their potential. Under the circumstances, the threat of the coronavirus epidemic facing the population in Idlib is also a human matter that must be dealt with seriously. Is there any attempt by Turkey to protect people in the region from the risk of epidemics? In addition, the risk of terrorism of population movement from the region towards Turkey has now been added to the size of refugees and risks related to public health. The record of power is bad in every field. The government, which cannot manage the crisis in the economy, is unable to manage the pandemic of coronavirus in health as well. The government, in the same way, did not manage foreign policy in Idlib and Libya, and has become the owner of increasing risks in both areas. Turkey will suffer and continue to suffer the cost of this. While Covid-19 was spreading rapidly, we were caught in the disaster of Idlib, which is a mind-blowing approach, a choice. So every time the power doesn't have a license to run this country, it hits us once again as a painful fact. One man's regime cannot rule this country. With the fight against Coronavirus, our priority should be to move quickly to the reformed democratic parliamentary system. I offer my sincerest gratitude to all of our devoted medical staff. I'll say it again: no one declares anyone a traitor in the coming period. My regards to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0148par0271	Antalya MP Abdurrahman is President on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0149par0274	Mr. President, I salute the esteemed MPs of our Veteran Assembly and the great Turkish nation watching us at the head of their television. First of all, I ask for the mercy of two of our senior corporals who died in Idlib, and of all their families, and of the Turkish nation. The measures taken in our country, as in the world, on the most important topic on the subject of the coronavirus, continue in a professional way above the European standards of our President's health minister, Mr. Fahrettin Husband and his team. This is a matter that concerns our public health and is of global importance that each citizen must observe. We know our health workers work day and night for the health of our citizens. We can't thank them enough. The point is, they can't see their parents' faces for days. I also want to express to our health workers that each and every one of them is a hero in the Turkish nation's conscience. Each citizen must comply with the measures issued by our Ministry of Health. The less contact, the less spread. That way, we'll break the spread chain of the virus together. Our citizens from abroad must obey the rules of 14 days of quarantine. It is especially important that our citizens from Umre show sensitivity in this regard. Our country will deal with these problems in the best possible way. Indeed, the Day of Judgement is the Day of Judgement. Our beloved Turkish nation has overcome and overcome all challenges forever and ever. As our president-in-chief, Mr. State Gardener Bey, stated in his statement, no one should have any doubt that we will defeat the corona plague with the power of reason, science and prayer. I also believe that even in the past, even in more troubled moments, the Turkish nation, who is not intimidated and frustrated, will also break the siege of this virus. In the process, it is an important responsibility for those who instill pessimism, pessimists, provocators, opportunisms, hoarders, and black marketers. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, today we're going to make an assessment of the Law Proposal on the Amendment to the Law that our participation in the African Development Bank Foundation Agreement is appropriate. As it is known, it has been committed to investing capital in the African Development Bank, and it has been arranged that the payments made under this commitment cannot exceed 67,790 thousand SDR (Special rights to attract), and it is possible to increase the amount to 5 times as much as necessary. However, bank capital was increased by 125 per cent during the Council of Extraordinary Guvernors Meeting on October 31, 2019. On the board, our country has been voted positive for capital increase, and our country's capital in the bank is expected to be raised to 577m,950,000 SDR. Our approval for this kind of capital increase will be evidence of our support for the bank as well as an indication of our efforts to develop countries on the African continent. According to the 2019 TASAM report, Africa's debt is constantly increasing and the debt affects social life in the region. However, the financial structure is also foreseen to improve. Creating qualified jobs is a step forward for the rapidly increasing young population. Africa's working population was 705 million people in 2018, while it is expected to find 1 billion people in 2030. Unregistered employment is one of the biggest problems in Africa. To combat rising unemployment, Africa must provide at least 12 million new jobs per year, and its strong growing economy is insufficient to meet demand alone. Structural changes must be necessary. At the point of creating employment, it is necessary to strengthen the private sector and open the way for different sectors by bringing new professions to these sectors. It should be aimed at boosting entrepreneurial incentives and creating new jobs. Small-scale companies dominate the market in this area, but the lack of knowledge and experience of the capital they have is short-lived and is the biggest obstacle to providing sustainable employment opportunities. Especially taking medium and large-scale businesses into more entrepreneurial identities will add positive value to the sustainability of employment. In order to increase industrialisation, governments must implement new policies in this area. The reduction of customs tariffs, the removal of borders in Africa, the free movement of the labour force, financial integration, strengthening regional organisations, local governments, business units. The Continental Free Trade Agreement, which is AFCFTA, has been assessed as a positive value for the entire continent. Integrating the aviation sector into a single structure will increase Africa's air traffic, and the best service can be offered at competitive prices, as it will ensure more efficient use of resources and that competitors become higher-level organisations. Our country was a member of the African Development Bank in 2013. With our capital increase, the work of the African Development Bank as a target is envisioned by improving economic and social structures in the region. According to the latest data, one of the five people in Africa is struggling with hunger. Millions of children are unable to complete their development due to malnutrition. The data on Africa is frightening. According to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, about 800 million people from every 100 people in the world face malnutrition. It hurts all of us. Ninety-two percent of these people in Africa live in developing countries, which means that of every eight people living in developing countries, they can't even reach the minimum food to sustain their lives. This absence brings with it other problems, such as the spread of diseases. Sadly, three of the five starving are women. According to World Health Organization data, girls and women suffer more hunger than men because of gender discrimination in less developed countries. Sadly, in some countries in Africa, women have the right to eat only after everyone in the family has eaten. We all know that injustice can only be corrected by education and development. Segregation also impresses pregnant women, and of every six babies born in developing countries, one of them is therefore opening their eyes to life with insufficient weight. Having these problems in newborn infants is an important proof of how bad the situation is. Half the children who lost their lives under the age of five die from hunger, friends. According to U.N. data, about 6 million children every year -- 16,500 children a day -- have died of malnutrition or starvation, 16,500 children -- and I would like to say here how much it will affect future generations. According to the same report, one of every four children living in developing countries is born with insufficient weight. This is just the beginning of the problem. An important part of children who are not dying because of malnourished diets are struggling with basic problems, such as developmental disorder, lack of body and brain development, so I want to express here that they will try to maintain a significant part of their lives as disabled. More people die of hunger than people who die of tuberculosis, AIDS, and malaria combined. We have had an opportunity to stand up to all these bad living conditions and to provide some sort of opportunity for the lives of people in Africa. In addition, since there is no clean water supply in the region, epidemics are all over the place. With the adoption of the law proposal, there will be electricity, transport and clean water available to the population of between 100 and 200 million people across the African continent, so there will be hope for millions of people. In these globally difficult days, it is our most important duty to help globally and to heal people's wounds. Economically, the investment of Turkish contractors in Africa exceeds $65 billion in American dollars. What our firms need most in the region is funding. With this capital increase at the African Development Bank, the financing problem of Turkish companies operating in the region will improve. According to the report, Turkish contractors' share in the international project has risen to 21 per cent in African countries, and a total of 1,377 projects in 41 African countries are worth 67.3 billion dollars. I'd like to point out here that this is a proud painting for our country. Contractors have managed to achieve higher scale and more projects on the continent during and within budgets, with consortiums they've created, and do-and-do model applications. The position of the Turkish state behind our contractors and businessmen has been admirable. African countries are also political and economically important for the future of our country. In 2018, Turkey's largest commercial partners in sub-Saharan Africa were $1.4 billion, Nigeria $489 million, Sudan 433 million, Senegal 400 million, Ivory Coast $377 million, Ethiopia 355 million, and Ghana 353 million, while in North Africa, Egypt was $5.2 billion, Algeria $3.1 billion, Morocco $2.7 billion, Libya $1.8 billion, and Tunisia $1.1 billion. The Republic of Turkey has always been there for those who are in trouble. The world's eyes are on Africa; it is important for our political and economic interests, and our presence here is essential. As the Republic of Turkey, Africa has already understood its importance, understood, and taken important steps. Both our State Department and our TİKA and NGOs have found important places in the heart of African countries. Water wells and health screenings are a very important place in the hearts of Africans because many of our NGOs are very important to help them reach clean water, which is the most important problem. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, as it is known, had set record after record in the tourism industry before the viral plague. Unfortunately, at this rate, our country seems to be slightly different from the global problems of the world. Along with the Coronavirus, we've received reports that there has been a serious decline in hotel reservations, and problems are beginning to develop in the industry. This year, we are very sensitive about the measures necessary to avoid serious problems in the tourism sector. As it is known, much of the economy of Antalya is provided from tourism and agriculture. In particular, things have come to a standstill in the tourism sector, our small businesses, our SMEs, restaurants, restaurant businesses, transportation sectors. Since our export doors haven't closed yet, at least we're still working on exports, which is good news. To ensure that our Antalya situation is at least affected by these negative developments, the EC PARTI Antalya MPs and our Foreign Minister, Mr. Mevlüt Davoglu, have been discussed today with our foreign minister, and the agenda has been discussed, and how do we get out of these problems with minimal damage? He also announced yesterday the package of important measures covering all Turkey. Some of these measures include: In the workplaces where they are asked to be closed, the depositor and VAT are delayed for six months, April, May and June, and the payment of the SGK bonus payments. The VAT rate in domestic airways has been reduced from 18 per cent to 1 per cent for 3 months. Loans used for sub-500,000 euros have been reduced from 20 per cent to 10 per cent, and loan use has been increased to 90 per cent. The housing tax will not be applied until November. Our tradesman's loan payments will be delayed for three months. Credit Guarantee Fund has been extended from $25 billion to $55 billion, and loans have been provided to companies with liquidity deficits and SMEs. The remote operating system will also be activated. In education, perhaps a new model will be made, and with remote education, an important gain for the future may be provided. You know, sometimes there's good in evil. They say, "Maybe there'll be some good in these matters." Turkish Airlines will be provided with the necessary support and will be ensured that there will be no setbacks. Hopefully with these measures, our economy will come out of global disaster with minimal injuries. I believe that the mighty Turkish nation will join hands and rid this scourge of its fighting spirit. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0150par0299	İstanbul MP Erol Kadircıoğlu will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Mulecioğlu.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0151par0302	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I'm going to say a few words about the African Development Bank, about the matter that has come up on our agenda. Once, in 2013, we joined this Bank of African Development, we had a commitment, but in time they felt the need to increase bank capital, so they asked donor countries to increase their capital, and in this framework, we are asked to increase our capital to about 577 billion from 67 billion to around 577 billion, and so as one of the African Development Bank's 26 non-African donor countries, we become an associate of this bank. Africa, to be honest, is, of course, the development of developing countries, geography, and if there's anything that can happen with our support, that's a good thing. It's a matter that can be supported by poverty, inhuman life, and, you know, a contribution to dehydration in many countries. But, I mean, what exactly is wanted? When I looked at the numbers, now, once, when we agreed that the amount that we had agreed to join in 2013 could be increased by five times as much as that. But now, with this law, since there is no Council of Ministers, or at work, since we have passed the Presidential system, the President has been given the authority. Friends, by going through these numbers, we'll be leaving about $4-5 billion directly under the President's authority. That doesn't sound like the right approach to me. Instead of a mechanism where a common mind such as the Council of Ministers can be produced, a decision has already been made by one person's mind, the most important weakness of the system of government called ▪ and therefore we are not willing to accept it, we are against it. Now, I'd like to bring you up to the point that the crisis in the economy has similar aspects of the outbreaks that we're experiencing now, like the coronavirus. So in a globalized world, you'll remember, the 2008 crisis broke out in America, and suddenly it surrounded the world, just like the virus, and everyone panicked because it was about 1929... If we take the great depression of 1929 as a reference, the 2008 crisis began to be a much worse crisis than that. Friends, there will surely be those who remember, at that time, it came to the agenda of the G20, and the G20, you know -- the G20, the group that we are in, the country -- came up with the plan to get out of this crisis together. So what's important here is that the countries that are important in the crisis, in the economic crisis, which are what we call the countries that are called the G20/, by acting together, by applying the same policy, tried to get out of this crisis, and they succeeded, and it took some time, but eventually the 2008 crisis lost its effect, and the countries sat down again in a part of their own well-being trend. But, friends, I want to draw your attention to one thing. As these events took place, the world changed, so it emerged as a development that said globalization had gone too far and therefore required to return to nationalistic, protective policies, just as it did in the past. At first, you'll remember, the policies of the United States of America have been converted into protective and in a way contrary to free trade theories, and this -- friends, you'll remember -- have returned to exchange wars. Because as they came out of the crisis, they couldn't do the same synchronization, because the perspectives of countries had changed, and instead of acting together as a necessary result of globalization, there was an improvement in the way that one country -- excuse me -- acted to get off the hook -- and you all know that when you look at it in the world and look at it as you look at it as it is today, especially in developing countries, you know that if there were not a recession in the United States, we would probably have fallen into a much worse economic crisis, but you know, not only in Turkey, but there are other countries in this economic crisis, especially in South Africa, etc. Now, what lesson can we learn from this? I mean, you have to understand, the lesson is, if there's trouble coming out of us, it could be economic trouble, it could be biological trouble, but I think it's at least the key to success. So when we look at the story of the coronavirus today, I think we're all afraid, but I think we should be even more afraid because that kind of common behavior in the world has not yet emerged between countries. Everyone's trying to get a solution inside their own house, and they're trying to save it with as little damage as possible, but friends, it's wrong. I think we're at a point where you guys should really raise your voice, but -- the other day, I spoke to you yesterday -- you're not doing that because if you do, you're going to have to change your politics in Turkey. Recep Tayyip Erdogan has been saying a very true, very right thing since then, what does he say? The world says that there are three countries, so if there are 193 countries, why are five countries able to make decisions that affect their lives, veto rights, etc., etc., that's not a right situation, and basically what the President's sentence implies is that we act together. I wanted to tell you my thoughts and I told you this morning, but again, in our meeting of the Plan and Budget Commission, for example, we as a group, as other parties, opposition parties, as a group, as I look at this phenomenon from the beginning, and I have felt the need to warn you from the beginning, and as I have found time to address you there, and I said this, as we did not have this very simple -- in fact, as a group, as a group, as a group, as a group, as a group of opposition parties, and we proposed this proposal a few weeks ago -- as a very simple -- as a matter of time. If Mr. Treasury and Finance Minister came to us before these measures to tell us how they saw the virus fight, what kind of damage they expected in the economy, and how much better it would be if he listened to our suggestions. But that didn't happen, so today our offer was rejected, so we protested and left. Now, friends, I said yesterday: Turkey is bigger than the people who support the Justice and Development Party; Turkey is not just people who support the Justice and Development Party; we have differences, and I understand now that when it's clear that we're more effective to be together, especially when it's obvious that we're going to be dealing with an external problem, you're not doing it and you're not going to do it. I'm trying to say something naive as a person who thinks it's time to stop, but I understand it's coming from your ear, it's coming from your ear. Now, friends, look, social scientists -- especially about sociology -- give us a very important piece of information. Let me brief you on this information. If there are groups in a society, think of it as this Parliament, right, there are different groups, this is one, if there's a sense of us developed in groups, and so it's evaluated by looking at others as the other ones, it's two, if there's an alienation between groups, if there's no common language, or if there's a growing language, it's three; friends, sociologists say that conflict is inevitable in a society like this. Now, folks, that's not rhetorical. We had a fistfight here the other day, as you know, right? Why did we do that? Because these three assumptions that I'm saying are basically sitting right down, there are groups, there are parties, there are parties, and each party member sees its own party and its own friends as the other one, and it sees the others as the other one; it's a very advanced emotion; but it's inevitable when there's a mass of people who are completely estranged from each other. If you want, you can expand this formula, you can move to a country. I think it would be very helpful to promote a country, too, because when we look at our country, these are the friends that we see. We have different people, we have different ideas, we have different ideas; there's no harm in them, but when these different people lose touch with each other, when they stop trying to understand each other, that's where I think a disaster is inevitable. I'm saying these words, it's an area I've been working on for a long time; I'm an economist, but there's this side of it, and I see that. Look, look at the areas that are at odds, and you'll see this when you look at them like this; look at Yugoslavia or look at another country. Therefore, friends, I suggest that we take this into your agenda or at least discuss it in your opinion: Yes, you and I may have different ideas, but having different thoughts shouldn't make us enemies of each other. So by respecting each other, by respecting each other's thoughts, by respecting each other's opinions... I mean, I don't know, but really, in this understanding, Turkey has no chance of going anywhere, and, friends, let me tell you, I have a few more minutes: this is the state of politics in Turkey since we moved on to democracy. So once upon a time, because of these political parties -- there would be people who would remember -- they would sit in different coffees in villages, they wouldn't go to each other's coffees. Friends, this can't be a country, this can't be a society. Such a society cannot live as a community. So I'm saying -- let me try to bring it up -- the fight against the virus, to be honest, from a completely upside-down point of view, it's completely, from a point of view of the center, from a balcony, that some suggestions have been brought to our attention, and I don't really, ever find it right, I condemn it, and I think that an approach like that is not humane at one time. Yeah, look, guys, we've got about five or six parties here with members. Yeah, we haven't been asked anything. So, Mr. Secretary came in today, thanks to him, he said something to us, and we asked him questions as long as we could, and it was over. It's like we did something together. But it's not like that, guys, we're not doing anything together here, I don't have that kind of feeling. You're doing something, and since you're in the majority, what you're doing is valid. But human beings think, "Well, maybe what we think may be true, maybe we're thinking something better than yours. Can't we? It's the truth, we can be. But, friends, the way politics is happening here, the structured state, believe it, is a situation that is never productive, that has no chance of taking us anywhere. And I think the presidential government system... may have seen it, I don't know, and smuggled politics out of here. There's no politics here anymore, politics is directly happening in Ashliya -- the concept you prefer, in my opinion -- at the palace. And I can actually put it this way: I think the President actually kidnapped you, and I think you can't see your ministers, and you can't seem to argue anything with your ministers. Because politics isn't here, guys, politics is out there. So I felt the need to give you these 15 minutes of conversation. As MPs of the 27th term of this House, we can create a revolution here, we can create a revolution, either, friend, a dead end that has been going on for years, so let's not walk on these streets, let's just say that. It's our own thing, we can do it, but to do that, we really have to have a will and have a will. I don't see them, and because I don't see them, I see that Turkey's politics is very dark, and the front of Turkey's economy is very dark. Turkey, on the other hand, is a country that can be much further from that, potentially has all kinds of things. In fact, I believe that if we could do it further, if we could -- especially in the world today -- representational democracies are in crisis, all national states in search of one -- there's no point in stopping Turkey at the moment, but especially considering the features of its own nature, it could make such a move that it could give the world an example of democracy, which is the democracy of the century before us. It's something we have, but either we don't feel the need enough or we don't have that kind of willpower. Okay, guys, last but not least, I'm gonna finish by saying a few more things that have been on my mind. Yeah, let's put some distance between us, and that's a big deal, but actually, we need to lift the distance between countries. As the distance between countries grows, make sure that the country continues to fight each other by consulting each other. This is the only way to achieve success. That's the first one. And second of all, they're talking about friends like, you know, wash hands, of course, but I think it's important that we get the information right. I assure you, wash your hand, do this, do this. More than that, the government, in particular, has to give us the right information, the government's authority boards, its institutions, the ministry and so on, and we need to carry that sense of knowledge. We're all sane people, we take our own precautions, social distance, etcetera. So, friends, I think I've had a long talk, and I'm paying all of your respects.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0152par0322	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0153par0323	Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0152par0326	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs expressed their sincere feelings about what sincere democracy should be from the speaker's bench, participation, pluralism, how we should build democracy at the point of freedom. But, of course, we have to have hope for our democracy. Believe me, we don't ignore any of the talks from the bench, as MPs, as Deputy Directors of the Group. So we're also making statements about every conversation, if necessary, for our political opinion to be recorded at the site of the construction of our political contract. At this point, we will see -- especially when we -- as a former MP, who's been a member of parliament for two semesters, according to my teacher -- that every single incident that's been talked about here builds politics in a state of ash.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0153par0329	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0152par0330	In his approach to the separation of forces, Montesquieu says that especially the execution should be of as few people as possible, and the living should be of as many people as possible. So Parliament will have done its job in full at the rate Turkey can represent its different colors. As long as all colors are represented from the elderly to the young, from the woman to the man, from the worker to the employer, from the financier to the manufacturer and from the north to the south, from the east to the west, and from the west, our democracy is built. In that sense, only the law body of a few people, not a lot of people in the modern democracies, would have expressed the legislative body if it had expressed it alone. In this sense, I agree with the heart of the Hatiman, but I say that this is not a negativity, but a way to build our democracy towards much brighter tomorrows, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0154par0332	Mr. President, can I make a contribution?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0155par0333	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0154par0335	Sir, there's no bullying, but let me contribute to this precious exchange of ideas. If Montesquieu had seen these days, he would probably have said: "One person in the AK PARTI understood me too, because -- because the part he said is true, but -- about the separation of Montesquieu forces, the forces should be completely independent, set up the balance and control mechanisms on each other. If there is weakness here, if the forces are united instead of divided, states will not last, states will collapse, he says. So Montesquieu sees the political theorists of the Justice and Development Party's most sought to pratize the speech of the Bekka, if there is a beka problem for a country, under one-handed control of the forces. I wanted to put that on the record, thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0156par0338	In one sentence...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0157par0339	Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0156par0341	Thank you, Mr. President. Especially when we look at the last three constitutional models that we've implemented -- 1921, 1924, 1961, 1982 and the end, the presidential government system -- we believe that the separation of forces is at a much better point in the current system. As the Republic Alliance, we presented this legal arrangement to our nation, and our nation believed it. But the separation of forces is tied at exactly what the Deputy Director of the Group is supposed to be. I wonder what a total separation of forces is supposed to be. If we theoretically imagine a system where forces are completely independent with each other in books, you can only do so by choosing the legislature from another country, from another country, from another country, from another country, from another country, from another country. That's not possible. For him, we see that today in modern democracies -- even when we look at the democracies of Europe, we see that the transition here is in a way that provides balance control.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0158par0344	Mr. President, let's discuss these matters in another session.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0156par0345	That's my last sentence.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0159par0346	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0156par0347	We especially care about balance control, and we believe that this is how the current system can bring balance control and control mechanisms into life. I made this statement specifically to make it clear that the congressman did not need to complain about what he had just said on the stand, but that we listened very carefully. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0160par0353	Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Istanbul MP Ali Şeker... Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0161par0356	Mr. President, I'm afraid we've heard from Idlib again today. I demand that our Mehmet-chik return home at once. I ask God's mercy for those who have lost their lives and for those who have lost their lives. Unfortunately, when I had a conversation yesterday about the Coronavirus, the number was 200,000, and today, at this time, 227,000. So it's a rapidly increasing disease, and within minutes, people die. The death toll was at 8,200 yesterday, in the 9.300s today. So it's obvious how serious the situation is. In terms of the number of diseases, we came to the 45th place between 159 countries. Unfortunately, it's clear that we're going to go much higher with what's being announced today and tomorrow. There used to be a Ponzi scheme: one person put two people in the system, and that's how it went, it was a fraud system. It's a disease chain. So one person infects five people, five people infecting 25 people, 25 people infecting 125 people, 125 people infecting 625 people. It's a disease that goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. Let's be aware of that, let's know how serious the situation is, let's work together to figure out how to get rid of this trouble, let's get our minds together, let's fight to get rid of it at the closest point to the solution. The Science Council needs to be complied with its opinions and suggestions, and all information needs to be shared in a transparent manner. On the one hand, the numbers of tests, the number of suspicious cases, and the number of deaths -- God forbid -- are going to increase -- must be clearly described, transmitted, transparently displayed. Because the biggest problem is that the number of suspicious cases is not defined as a case because they are not confirmed. I think making a separate number of suspicious cases and a daily report will satisfy these doubts, and it will increase confidence. In countries such as South Korea, where the number of tests was high, the isolation of people with dishes here has been faster and has been one of the most successful countries in South Korea. We need to benefit from these experiences. The Turkish Medical Association needs to participate in the process, and trade organisations need to be involved in the process. This process is a very difficult process, and it's not easy for the Ministry to handle it alone, by itself, by the health workers. So I think it would be even more useful for us to join these trade organizations, the Nurses' Association, the Pharmaceutical Union with a representative of this Science Council. It's not right for health workers to have to apologize publicly. So a physician is giving information to the employees to take seriously the case, and this information is being recorded and served without permission, and is being offended by a fellow physician who has worked very, very sincerely to overcome the process, and it is not possible to accept it. We need to be more supportive of healthcare these days. We also need to know that they are the group that will pay the ultimate price for this process. I'd like to address the law of violence in health these days, the moral support, the immunization of health care, so that they can be more powerful in the process that we haven't released in a long time. It's 21 o'clock today. At 00, at 9 p.m., all of Turkey will go out to the balcony and applaud its health workers, and I invite all of Turkey to applaud veterans from their balcony at 9:00 p.m. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, we all know what our situation is here between the OECD countries, and the Minister explained it. We are in a very good situation, our infrastructure is very good, we will overcome it. There is no need to hide the facts; we will face that fact. We're behind in OECD countries, unfortunately we're behind on the number of beds, and it would also help to prepare the intensive care of those who are close to the end of these newly built city hospitals -- at least in the process -- for quarantine practices of those parts. It's a lucky time for city hospitals to be made far away from the city, perhaps a benefit, to be used as a quarantine hospital. The health army needs additional benefits. The package was not presented to health workers, health workers, staff there, nurse there, doctor there, x-ray technician there. And that's a huge lack of this package, which must and must be repaired. The paramedics don't have an eye for anything, and when the paramedics do this poor job, they think about their patient's health and sacrifice their health in a way that's been missing for a long time, I think it's our job to get it done. On February 27th -- I told you before -- let's get the Health Commission together immediately, it's very serious. Do you need a law, a law on public intelligence, that's all there is to it? We wanted to talk about it and talk about it, but what did the Commissioner say to us? Nothing will happen if we eat the syrup. After March 15th, there will be no disease. He said, "It's in the archives of the Anadolu Agency." As he said, "It'll be fine if we drink the tea of the same Cahit Aral." Politicians and executives need to stay away from such informal behaviors and attitudes. Here, one of the most important parts of this struggle in South Korea is the number of tests per million people. It's important to identify and isolate individuals, as I just said, but now we see that the epidemic has moved to another stage. Now, those who don't go abroad have cases in there that have dishes from abroad, and those who have dishes from abroad, and they need to be isolated from the community as soon as possible. It is not acceptable to send people to malls with their children as they close schools. If there must and must be additional measures, we must take them without delay, without hesitation. Some agencies don't need to work, so it's not urgent, these institutions can be vacationed. As long as these institutions work, there are a lot of people involved in public transport, and people involved in public transportation increase the possibility of infection, which infect their families and cause the event to watch much faster. The cases are going to be 25, 50, 100, 200, 400, 800, 1,600, which seems to be the character of the epidemic, which is the character of the epidemic. It is clear that this is a high disease of infectiousness, viral, disease - producing effects. For him, there must be a review of the number of institutions to be vacationed on, and additional measures to prevent these population movements, which would lead to congestion in public transportation. Those who will face the greatest tribulations of this era are also the poor masses of people. The people who were infected with the first outbreak, and the structures that he was infected with, they're mostly people in the upper income group of the population, who are in contact with abroad and have the opportunity to travel. Today, we learn that our former Orgeneral, who lost his life, has come from Iran. So even in upper income groups, even when the deaths are high -- and we've seen this in the example of Italy -- we need to know that the situation will be much more severe when poor populations, with food problems, have access to health problems. We have a very serious problem with unemployment; young unemployment has increased at very serious points, and we have young unemployed people. Who are they? Paramedics. They've graduated, they've been waiting for work for years, and we're in a time when we need young medics the most because paramedics, especially young medics, are luckier at fighting this disease. We will need to receive remote, remote advice from health workers, teachers, medical workers, fellow nurses, and staff, to benefit from their experience when necessary. In this process, a significant part of this 620,000 non-appointed medics will allow us to fight faster, stronger because of their advantage. We need to make a change in the working order of the paramedics. Those paramedic friends of ours will be able to work for a long time if they need to, and when they do, they'll be a serious risk of public transportation when they come and go to their families all the time. For him, measures must be taken in this regard, whether it is the transportation of the medics, whether it is the housing of the medics. We need to prepare some of this -- when necessary -- for the next attack, because, as I said, this is just the beginning; we need to fight, we need to make preparations for the days when health will get worse and our capacity will fail. In the meantime, we were supposed to give a package to the shopkeeper, so the rent-payer couldn't pay rent because he couldn't do anything, so we have to make an adjustment. Traders, small tradesmen, small, medium-sized SMEs, unfortunately, can't afford to pay their workers, so there must be something to do with them. In this regard, the workers need to have a much greater share in the package in order to avoid being victims. You know, in terms of the package, different countries of the world have earmarked a variety of packages. Here, Canada divides 75 billion euros into the package, while Germany splits 550 billion euros, while we split 14 billion euros. Of course, that's not enough. In a country of 83 million people, it's impossible to overcome the crisis. South Korea set aside 25 billion euros in spite of its population. He only saved it for the health-related struggle. So we're gonna have to rethink this. Spain has set aside 200 billion euros, and we need to pay attention to them. Tourism workers will be severely damaged, tourism sectors will be severely damaged, agricultural workers will be severely damaged. The large groups of the public needed a share of this package. There are exported paramedics, and they have to be on the job to be taken advantage of. There are people waiting for the appointment and waiting for his appointment just because there's a security investigation, and they need to be put to work fast. Family physicians need to be provided with protective facilities in this regard. Unfortunately, everyone looted the equipment that went to the hospitals in the early days, so to speak. There's a need to take precautions about that now, so we don't have to take the protection equipment that's reserved for those health workers out of the hospitals. Prisons need special care at this time, where they can spread very quickly, and they need to take protective measures. Mustafa Koçak, unfortunately, was convicted on the testimony of a false witness, a confessor, a confidential witness, to close a case and eventually entered a death fast. His only request is a fair trial. Fair trial is everybody's right. Mustafa Koçak should also be judged fairly, and we don't want anyone to get out of his health as soon as possible. The World Health Organization has to take precautions so that this disease doesn't spread too fast so that its health capacity doesn't become inadequate, says the World Health Organization. There are close to 400,000 people from abroad, especially those from Umre. It's not right for them to go home after only 14 days of quarantine. Scientific studies show that this could take up to 37 days. I have nothing after 14 days. Let them say, "Don't try to meet anyone, let them extend their isolation for a month so that they don't get involved with their loved ones or join the chain of illness." According to World Health Organization data, the mortality rate is 3.8%. In South Korea, it remained at a level of 7 per thousand. Which means the more tests you run, the more people you reach, the more patients you get. Otherwise, if you test only those who come to the hospitals and are in severe condition and you determine a rate of death as a result, naturally the mortality rate increases. We've seen you contribute to the concrete, not the economy, in this package again. How do we contribute to construction companies? Again you set your eyes on the concrete. That's not the right approach. We need to make contributions to creating large jobs. The investment in this concrete that you've made in the past years has buried the country in concrete. Let's break this concrete and build a productive economy together. Otherwise, at a time of the highest unemployment, the scourge of the coronavirus will lead the country to a much greater unemployment. The government has not been responsible for this until now, and I'm inviting you to take responsibility from now on. The dollar can't be taken, no one knows when it's going to happen. I'd like to thank the health workers from here one more time. Last night, I sent the Cavid-19 Book of Precaution and Treatment to our friends -- those medical students and doctors who were translating in the medical rooms -- and they translated it in half a day, and they distributed it to Turkish physicians. I'd like to give them a round of applause here, thank them once again. [[Applause]] The ruling policies have led to an increase in patients from abroad in particular. In particular, the spill of gasoline on the Syrian fire increased migrations, and measles only became 2,391 in the first eight months of 2019. I mean, we've dealt with measles, we've dealt with tuberculosis, and we've dealt with drugs, just as we've dealt with this coronavirus on the grounds of foreigners from our borders. This year, we faced a disease called West Nile virus in Thrace, and Istanbul, which could lead to serious consequences. In this particular, we need to carefully carry out the mosquito fight in the coming process. The people I'm going to call quacks about anti-occession, they go on TV and they talk, so the charlatans do the most damage to public health. Titri is a charlatan, whether he's a professor or a doctor, and these charlatans need to do what RTUK needs to do, not give people more poison. Refugees came to the border, leaned back, and at that border, nearly 10,000 refugees were devastated. During the time of this outbreak, the shame of the use of refugees as a tool belongs to both Turkey and the European Union. Let's not continue with this embarrassment, but make sure we take precautions about those refugees, political asylum seekers, and take precautions about them. What we need to do is work through this process in cooperation. If we, if we avoid cooperation, sacrifice this process to politics, we will come out of this process with much more damage. Regarding our capacities, there is also a statement: "Our intensive care beds are sufficient. We know that we have as many as 25,000 intensive care beds. You're the MP, and we can't find you in intensive care every day. Don't they call you? They're searching and some of them are being emptied, they need to be emptied, but we may be able to empty a third of that. So the capacity we can use is maybe five or six thousand. For him, the fan support must be increased, so that the service beds can also be used as intensive care. We need to establish a system that will seriously govern our entire intensive care capacity from one center, whether it's public or private, and use it according to priorities. I invite everyone to give a round of applause to the paramedics at nine o'clock. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0162par0388	And now, on behalf of the individuals, the slap MP, the Ancient, won't stop. Here you go, Mr. Durmaz.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0163par0391	Mr. President, dear members of the High Assembly, our beloved nation who watches over television, I salute all of you, and ask God's mercy and immediate healing for those who have lost their lives because of the corona virus that has affected our country and our world. Our hope and our prayers are that the loss of life does not increase. In this regard, I begin by thanking all health workers, doctors, nurses, paramedics, assistant staff who are fighting the virus, especially our Ministry of Health. We listened to the President together yesterday. Now, it's a meeting with about 90 people, but we've seen that some of the compounds of some of the NGOs, or of this serious issue, have been very seriously interrupted by the fact that they're not in that room. But as a result, when we listen to a simple citizen -- we've received a lot of calls -- I think we'll pay attention for 14 days, if we stay home, we'll be able to move on without being infected with a coronavirus virus like this. But the people who know the truth, the people who are capable of the subject, we all have to know that when we listen to them, the seriousness of the event is very different, very severe, and we have to do our part, both of us and the components. Of course, Mr. President has announced a number of measures consisting of 21 articles. We've listened to it like this, but most of it was explained in a hurry, so without the subject components. It's the biggest... of course, we've done some of the things around the country, some of the things that make the lives of industrialists, SMEs easier, but we've also forgotten about the TÜRMOB members, accountants, financial advisors with about 120,000 occupational workers. These are dozens, hundreds, hundreds of thousands of documents, how, how they've been cut in an unknown environment, how they've been billed, receipts, and so forth, take them from here to a relevant institution... the components of the subject are about 120,000, and when we collect them with their families, that's a different area for you. Therefore, those postponements would be much more accurate by receiving the opinion of these components and trade organisations. Our tradesman will be miserable in the process. He can't pay his taxes on the past, and he can't pay his taxes on the present; a part of it's been postponed, but none of it's enough, so we need to work on it again. The small tradesman can't pay his debts. Once again, the dentists took it, and everyone postponed their treatment. What about these men's work, their business expenses, their employees, it's not clear. The farmer is already devastated by the country's lack of agricultural policy, and it should have been brought to the attention of the worker's transfer of payments to agricultural loan co-ops, Agriculture Bank, different banks, until its absolute crop at the end of this period. Again, we say that the sectors of support should be re-examined and that these sectors must be fully prepared for the coming days. Again, don't go to coffees, certain, gathering places. We say, "What are these people going to do, what are they going to do, and there's no clarity about it?" These things need a little work. And most importantly, we see together that we've always been sensitive from the beginning, that the Turkish Armed Forces, as we know them, are now fighting and fighting across the border. But when we listen, there are some questions in the minds of over 300,000 Armed Forces personnel, including about 100,000 members of the Armed Forces, their families, other than that, who are not sure when they're going to the area. In this context, I will share part of what must be done to protect our Mehmetchik, who is struggling in difficult conditions for the future of our country from the corona virus. The security of the country is a fact that the measures taken under any circumstances must continue uninterrupted. Even in the Battle of Salvation, we need to remember the fact that military schools continue to study and teach. Military schools, which are now closed for a month, can be shut down for a period of three months -- seeing the general conjuncture -- practices in China and so on. You can close this gap in other universities, but with such measures, you have no chance of closing the gap and phase in the Turkish Armed Forces, dear friends. We need to know that the system of members of our military, which is in the working environment in Syria and in many areas, is uninterrupted, that it must be carried out effectively. The fact that the long recession of the educational system, an important function of the Turkish Armed Forces' system, will affect our army in a negative way in terms of morale and motivation. We all know that there is nothing in the region other than measures and measures of hygiene, which should be followed by measuring the fires of troops that go to the operation and return, and recommended to the public. Military health care is more important in terms of preventative practice than the treatment of war injuries and wounded. Friends, in our history, there has been a modern medical training centre on March 14, 1827, which provides a modern medical education in order to prevent casualties caused by disease outside the war. And ever since then, it's been going on like certain traditions in the Turkish Armed Forces, but unfortunately, we've broken and distributed this structure in the Turkish Armed Forces as a result of the July 15th treason attempt on our country. Now, I'm asking our Minister of Health: is there any system, agency, or measure that he has set up for employees in the working areas? I'm afraid not. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've given up on measures against conflict zones, is there any agency and any measures that the Ministry of Health has set up for military troops and institutions in the country? Too bad he doesn't exist either. Again, it is estimated that there are about 100,000 people in our region of hot military action, but here, experts' first advice to protect themselves from the corona virus is a balanced diet. Can we offer a balanced, balanced diet to our Mehmetchik, who is now serving in these remote places, across the border and beyond the border? We can't. According to the information received, the most problematic units are our sons serving at the observation points in Idlib. Because now, in Idlib, five observation points are under siege; supply, care, and evacuation are sadly subject to the control of Russia and the regime. Currently, the number of rations and food diversity calculated according to the existing laws of the Turkish Armed Forces should be immediately reviewed on balanced nutrition. Again, for food to be delivered safely and on time to the most distant units, transportation must be given special importance to transport, immediate flexibility to tender legislation in risky and critical areas. Given today's infection environment and the land conditions under which Mehmetçik was employed, the cleaning materials calculated according to current legislation must be reviewed and diversified. The units in the area are trying to provide cleaning and hygiene materials with their own means. Enough liquid soap, cologne, alcohol, and certain hygienic substances must be incorporated immediately, and the amount of use must be increased according to the current conditions. We all know that actively in the field of counterterrorism and in an actual conflict in Syria, our Mehmet-chicks serve 24 hours on the basis without the concept of overtime. We should also remember that these heroic sons have been resting in deregulation positions or shelters, most of which have infrastructure and hygiene problems. Their beds are often mats of rubber, which they lay on the ground, or from cardboard, wood, etc., or from surrounding materials. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0164par0404	Let's complete it, Mr. Durmez.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0163par0405	Resting places are close to their positions and the staff in need are also taking up arms and taking up duty. How healthy sleep and rest can be created under these conditions, I leave it to your discretion. Any agency the Ministry of Health has established for military troops and institutions serving abroad and abroad for protective health measures, and there is no such measure, nor does it exist. This issue is not included in the press statements. Since the Turkish Armed Forces' military health system has been removed, the special measures taken by the Turkish Armed Forces are not within its own power. Again, we all know that our soldiers in the region are involved with the locals, with the militia there, with the SOS and so on, and they're bound to get germs from them. So, about 100,000 soldiers and their families, at this point, are very curious about the situation here... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0165par0410	Let's salute, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0163par0411	The government must address the concerns of our most important subjects, the families of the Mehmetites, the families of the condemned lambs, and 82 million of the saintly nation. So there's no way that Mehmet-chik would be out on the street for 14 days. I say the necessary measures must be taken immediately and the measures taken must be shared with the public. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit02spe0165par0414	The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0165par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal No. 197. The commission is in place. As far as I'm concerned, we're still on the same page as we're on the same page as we're on the same page. ADADDE 1- (1) 17/1/2013 and the statement of the Council of Ministers of Ministers has been changed in the form of the President of the Republic of Africa, which is included in Article 2 of the 2 article.67.770,970,950,000. On behalf of the 1st article, İstanbul MP İsmail Tatekoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Tastyoglu.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0166par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable members of our Parliament, I salute you all on behalf of my own and party. This is truly an extraordinary time. We say this, and it's generally considered the greatest global threat the world has ever seen since World War II. It's the greatest global disaster mankind has ever faced. The whole world is a disaster zone, and Turkey is a disaster zone. There's a global state of emergency. It's a Chinese virus outbreak. For this reason, countries, in particular, are primarily affected by the disease in parallel with Chinese and Chinese contact. Therefore, countries are affected by this epidemic, compared to the health infrastructure and measures they have, and this threat has two legs in the context of countries: first, measures related to health and health. The second, of course, stands before us as measures related to the economy and which should be taken economically. Yesterday, Mr. Erdogan announced the measures taken as head of the administration. Of course, these are the applications that will affect Turkey's economy in the first degree. But, of course, we have to say this, and we say this very clearly at a very clear time: generally constructiveism is expected from opposition, but governments need to be constructive. So, in the first period of the AK PARTI power, the creation of this common mind, which has been very vocal, has been a very desirable need lately, especially with this virus. The heart would like to pre-empt the views of parties whose group is in Parliament to determine these policies and produce a common policy. Therefore, we would especially like to explain our thoughts on the economic foot and evaluate this package, which has been implemented. Very valuable lawmakers, mainly measures in the economy are aimed at three main goals. One is that the current economic functioning should not be stopped. Second: a brief period of slowdown in the economy as soon as possible. And the third is that the resuscitation is prioritized and accelerated. In this context, the first thing that should be done in all economies is that, regardless of the cost concern, consumer goods have a balanced flow of supply and demand in the state itself. In this sense, the logistics sector can be taken into temporary protection, even publicized. Because the prevention of economic operations is basically passed through here, and in this sense, measures are taken starting here. As we look at the applications around the world, the fundamental missing of the practice in Turkey is: look, you can't separate any sectors in the economy because there's a domino effect, there's always a crisis in the economy, the crisis in that sense affects the whole economy. But unfortunately, in yesterday's statement, we found that a package of measures consisting of 10 businesses -- extremely wrong, incomplete minds. Look, it's a common mind-deprived mind, it can't be. How do we say this crisis doesn't affect tourism, chemistry, machine manufacturing, manufacturing industry, agriculture? All applications show: all institutions in the economy, all sectors and sectors, businesses -- look, both France and Germany and America -- we will not allow any company to go bankrupt. These measures have two important legs: first, to keep businesses alive, the supply. Secondly, injecting spending pencils into households, which they demand, is the balance of supply and demand. Now, what is the first basic first-degree emergency in the economy in this sense? Businesses are cash flow disorders. Look, the measures are a postponement of value added tax and public payments based on public declaration. However, March and April pay both income tax and institutional taxes, and that is a large payment. We've got the payment in March, the statement in April, but it's odd that the company's tax was paid in April, and the company's tax was not delayed in April. All countries have postponed it, and this postponement should not just be postponed. Now, when these are postponed, how will the firms pay for what was not available today, three months later, along with their obligations today? After three months of all of this, a year must be paid without interest. These are the basic examples of every country. That's basically how it should be, and that's what we're suggesting. In fact, Turkey should spend two months on tax vacations, along with its employees, along with its financial advisors, along with its finance workers and its tax-payment obligations, along with the SGK; very simple, it should go on a two-month tax break. Another important issue is this in China, and in other countries: Salaries should never be cut; private sector payments, salaries. The public is clear. Now, the measure we have is that we've been given a short work grant. What does this short study grant mean? So the businesses affected by this crisis will apply to the SGK, rather than to remove their workers, their employees, and they will ask that the workers who benefit from the unemployment fund be paid by the SGK. Therefore, when the company has applied and the company has no job, if the company is in trouble, the SGK will pay 60 per cent of the gross minimum wage, so that an employee who receives $2,300 will receive $1,780. Dear friends, but in order for him to get this, he'd have to be paid in six hundred days, and he'd have to be at work for a hundred and twenty days. So from this angle, look, there's going to be a huge lack of unemployment and work starting in March. We have 14 million employees, how much of them do you feel a lack of payment? It's gotta be big. In this sense, an important part of these workers cannot benefit from this grant because they cannot benefit from the unemployment allowance. We must immediately go to an arrangement to cover all employees in this short work grant, and we must not allow the workers to pay the unemployed -- their monthly salaries, to be cut off. It's not for them, it's for the whole economy. That's basically the source. Again, in Mr. Erdogan's statements, we put the financial cost entirely on businesses and employees. As of now, hundreds of thousands of merchants and exporters are loaded with goods and no income. Believe me, I got a call from a textile manufacturer from Bursa, saying that for the first time in 21 years, he couldn't pay his checks. Now, a transaction about these is not going to go on record, but because its income is down, the cash flow is down, so it can't carry the cost of these, it can't make these payments. And your loan... somehow you have to provide middle-term business loans with low interest. The maximum value of this package, which Mr. Erdogan announced, is 40 to 45 billion liras. This economy... if, indeed, I take it from the speech of Mr. Collarak, if anything should pass in a week or two, which I hope will happen, that's fine.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0167par0020	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0166par0021	But if this April comes to an end, it's going to take 200 billion dollars to fund the entire economy. The state, as in all over the world, must therefore burden the financial costs of businesses in Turkey, some of the interest, to prevent private sector businesses from going bankrupt and the economy, and to ensure that the employees remain spending enough to operate the economy. These measures have been announced yesterday, and if they find April, they will really cause permanent damage to our economy. Look, the Turkish economy is already, unfortunately, one of the most fragile economies in the world, caught in this crisis, obviously.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0167par0023	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0166par0024	Since the corona research motion we submitted on January 30th was rejected, the Stock Exchange fell 28.9 percent, not 17 percent, but 29 percent, and the entire world lost 2 percent against dollars, while Turkish lira lost 7 per cent in the last month, so we were caught in a fragile economy. Look, lastly, I want to point out that the activity of systems is based on the trust that it builds in society, and that trust should leave the appetite for investment and consumption. From the referendum in 2017, all the public has been following very carefully, and to your attention, the Turkish nation is running away from Turkish lira. From $130 billion to 201 billion deposits, this is a bottom wave, more important than the height of interest. From this referendum, the average economic growth has been 1.7 in the last two years. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, if we look at it from this point of view, hopefully, we'll all make up for it together. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0168par0029	Eskişehir MP Utku Çakırözer on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Cacharouser.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0169par0031	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our High Council with the wish that our country could come out of the corona epidemic with the least amount of damage. First of all, I have to say that we don't understand the urgency of Turkey's participation in the capital increase of the African Development Bank that we're discussing, the urgency of bringing Turkey to the General Assembly in this crisis environment, the reason for that. And since it's so urgent, it's so necessary, I'd like to ask you why there is no minister or deputy minister in the ranks of the Commission. Of course, the development of Africa is important, in terms of humanity as well as the vision of Turkey. It's important to be the donor of a bank, it's useful, but there's an extraordinary increase in the bank's capital increase. Now, the decision is made to increase the African Development Bank's capital by 125 per cent. Not all donor countries are voting for this decision, which increases our obligation. We see in the text that our country has the right to a special withdrawal of 67 million 790,000 specials, and now we raise it to 577 million 950,000. So the capital increase is 125 per cent, but the increase in Turkey's commitment is 752 per cent. It's not high, it's not very high, it's a very astronomical increase. So we're talking about an $800 million commitment over today's pitch. On the other hand, again, this agreement allows the president to increase that amount to five times as much. We don't think it's right that this authority should be given directly to one person. If he uses this authority, he will be able to raise Turkey's commitment to $4 billion, which is today's currency to $25 billion, my dear friends. There are two crises in the world: one is the corona crisis, the other is the economic crisis, and these are intertwined. Just yesterday, Mr. President announced a package called a 100 billion-dollar package. Here we are today, with a small number of positive measures, discussing how short this package is, how inadequate it is. There are 8 million unemployed in Turkey, and here we see, individual, collective layoffs, hundreds of thousands more workers are put on the doorstep without social security, but the package released yesterday has no guarantees for the worker, not even an individual or a collective employee for the importance of promoting employers; there is no government permit for parents who have to take care of their children, and there is no payday in the private sector; there is no postponement of loans and credit cards that the public can't afford; there is no delaying of water, gas, electricity bills; there is no delays for the rent of the business. In this case, how do we complete these shortcomings? I would like to stress that joining the African Development Bank with an extraordinary increase in capital growth is not particularly accurate during such a period. With this agreement, $800 million, which is promised immediately, $5 billion, and $4 billion, which is guaranteed to be five times as much as the president's decision, is going to come out of each of our budgets, out of the taxes of 83 million. So, in a crisis like this, where would this money go instead of the African Development Bank? Mr. Faik Öztrak and Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, our Istanbul MP, announced today. It can be spent on unpayable salaries for employees in companies that have been shut down due to the epidemic. Taxes, insurance debt construction with zero interest, loss of income and institutional taxes, the advance of future VAT refunds for employers, payable permits to one of the parents who has children, our poor citizens, pensions, pensions and university students, social solidarity support for our hundreds of thousands of farmers, the non-interested pensions of entrepreneurs, the registration of the entrepreneurs who have shorted their loans, the support of press agencies that will satisfy the need for information of the public, the pay of local televisions, the pay of the satellite fees they were forced to pay for, the tax and the benefits of the benefits of our newspapers, and the benefits of our workers, and the benefits of our workers, and the benefits of our labours, should be paid, and the benefits. I'd like to express our heartfelt gratitude to them from here once again. My dear friends, it is vital that our society be informed in this time of plague, transparent and satisfying. The reporters are the ones who are going to do it. However, it is disconcerting that journalists reporting on the epidemic from all over Turkey should be detained by investigations and even by midnight raids, and that error should be dismissed immediately. On this occasion, I would like to refer to the unlawful closure of the OdaTV news site and the illegal imprisonment of three employees -- Peace Pehlivan, Peace Terkoğlu, Hülya Kınc and journalists Murat Asel, Farhat Çelik and Aydın Keser: What was the issue? Reporting the funeral of an MIT member who lost his life in Libya. Although there is nothing in the news that could damage national security, extraordinary sanctions are being implemented and implemented. First, the OdaTV site, where millions of citizens have been informed and reported, has been shut down, even though the news has been banned. OdaTV website employees are trying to live with other names, but each one is closed by stereotypes. In the past two weeks, the court can't even give a reason to close. The fact that the OdaTV site is still closed is a scandal, a disgrace. Another scandal lies in the application file made by the Ministry of Interior regarding the decision to close. The Security Directorate's Office against Cyber Crimes is seeking a ban on access to the website on behalf of the Interior Minister with a rapid note. This document contains a very general, very abstract charge that is far beyond the discomfort of a funeral. See what the document says: "The public is provoked to hatred, hatred and hostility without any confirmation or resources as a policy of public publication, causing confusion in society, spreading reports and content that the country is seeking to disrupt its peace and security, violating the protection of national security and public order..." There, no court decision is required to close with these assessments, which are not based on official documents, and they are closed on March 7th. Now, from here, I'd like to ask the Minister of Justice: I thought it was a violation of freedom of expression to ban all sites. I thought you said compliance with the Constitutional Court was essential. The Constitutional Court says: "To ban all of Wikipedia, fucking syndika." It is a violation of rights to ban the entire website. Where then are the laws and reforms that we have adopted under this lofty roof? Where the hell are you going with your high judgment decisions? And I'd like to ask the Home Secretary again, what is the basis of these abstract assessments, the allegations in this application of yours? OdaTV, with what news did Peaces provoke the public, what news did they cause confusion in society, which ones did they try to disrupt peace and security with? What court order do you have regarding these serious accusations? It is unlawful to decide to close so easily to a widely watched news site without a document. There's another dimension. The trial is not for severe punishment, it will be held in the criminal court. But these six journalists have been in isolation for 15 days, like they've killed people, like they've been terrorized or hit. Peace Pehlivan was struck by an execution officer during his arrest. My dear friends, what happens to innocent people is not only illegal, it's shameful, it's sinful. Peaces were laid up in the Silivri prison for 19 months in the plot, and they were not so persecuted. Once again, I call on this bench: this political judicial process against OdaTV must end, and the unlawful closures must end again. Both journalists under arrest and all political prisoners who have been deprived of freedom by the court for years due to their views must be released immediately. My dear friends, I'd like to share with you a final assessment of the corona epidemic. While the world was scorched by this virus, Turkey took the necessary precautions too late; it is a fact. The long-term medical examination of those who came from abroad, the 14-day suspension of returnees without quarantine has caused the virus to spread to our country. I'd like to point out one of these neglects here, our country is an important tourist destination. This year, as every year, tourists from the Far East came, and they continued to come after the outbreak of the corona. They continued to visit our palaces, such as their resorts, their knitting places, Topkap, and Dolmabahçe. Unfortunately, it was too late to take precautions. I'd like to give you a concrete example: Our brother Mustafa Kabul died on March 17th and was buried yesterday. I ask for God's mercy, my condolences to his family. There are various allegations of his death. He was said to have died of pneumonia, but as far as his job goes, he's suspected of being affected by the epidemic because he's constantly face-to-face with tourists. His colleagues, his family, they're worried. There are allegations that his colleagues, the National Palace employees, are being pressured not to reflect on the issue. Why is Dolmabahçe Palace open when the daughter of our late box office clerk is in the hospital, and why is it not a shame for my father, and who will pay his debt? So when do these palaces close? It's too late, it's the day Mustafa Kabul was buried.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0170par0044	Complete.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0169par0045	Mr. President, I'm finishing. My dear friends, whether it's the presidency of the National Palaces or the ministries taking precautions, they haven't been able to give a good test here. Look, the President of the National Palaces announced yesterday that all the tourist palaces, mansions, katters, and museums were closed, but we're looking at just one week ago, on March 11th, while Mustafa Kabul was alive, they threw another one. Here it is, I'd like to show you. A photo of the Taiwanese group visiting Dolmabahçe is shared on the website of the National Palaces. What I read in the message is that the corona virus, which threatens the world, reduces tourism revenues, but the proportion of visitors to historical sites is substantial. One of them is the Taiwanese group that carried the Dolmabahçe Palace in masks. The group studying the Crystal Ladder became the center of interest in their cheerful behavior. I'd like to ask you, my dear friends, what kind of mood were those who wrote this message a week ago? Our dead box office clerk and dozens of our friends are at the tollbooth and other units... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0171par0049	Let's bow.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0169par0050	What kind of mood is it to send a message from Taiwan, from all over the world, and from the airports, to place a picture of tourists coming in without any control while working with no protection precautions? This message has been deleted today, but I wonder if it is this insensitiveness and if it has been investigated for the great negligence of employees, and I call from here: The cost of this insensitivity must surely be asked of those who have done it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0171par0053	On behalf of the individuals, Aydın MP Mustafa War... Here you go, Mustafa War.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0172par0056	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own person regarding the Law Proposal on the Amendment to the Law that our participation in the African Development Bank Foundation Agreement is appropriate. I hereby salute our High Council. Before I begin my speech, I pray to God for the mercy of our heroic soldiers who lost their lives in Idlib, Syria, and to their families, and to our wounded soldiers. I wish that the coronavirus, which all the countries of the world have fought so hard, could be overturned immediately. Our president, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is our president, and we're taking every economic and social measure, especially in the health field, and we're putting up an exemplary fight against the world with the coronavirus. As we continue this struggle, it is vital that we observe warnings and measures issued by our Ministry of Health and authorities. In this respect, I'd like to thank Mr. Secretary and all of our health workers. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are expected to raise our country's capital share of the bank to about $800m in accordance with the board's decision to raise capital at the president's board meeting held at the headquarters of the African Development Bank on 31 October 2019. Our country's participation in the bid will be a sign of our support for the bank as well as of our efforts to improve countries on the African continent. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Turkey has strong historical ties with African countries. In this regard, our country refers greatly to its relations with Africa. IN THE period of EC PARTY governments, economic and social steps have been taken to strengthen both our political and human relations with the African continent. In this case, the number of representatives in African countries has been increased. In 2002, we had only 12 embassies, while at the end of 2019, our number of embassies operating in Africa rose to 42. One of the most concrete indicators of our strong relations with African countries is our developing economic relations and our growing numbers of trade. Our total trade with the African continent was raised from $4.3 billion in 2002 to $24 billion at the end of 2019, and our export share was about 9.4%. In early 2003, our trade began to gain momentum with the Strategy for the Development of Economic Relations with African States, which was prepared by our foreign Trade Undersecretary. It also continued to grow exponentially, with the declaration of the year of Africa declared by our government in 2005. Mr. President, the purpose of the African Development Bank is to encourage sustainable economic growth in regional member states and reduce poverty in Africa. The bank has about 91.1 billion registered capitals, about $6.8 billion in paid capital. The largest five shareholders in the region are 9.3 per cent of Nigeria; Egypt 5.6 per cent; South Africa 5 per cent; Algeria 4.2 per cent; Ivory Coast 3.7 per cent. The largest five shareholders in non-territorial countries are the United States 6.6 per cent; Japan 5.5 per cent; Germany 4.1 per cent; Canada 3.8%; France 3.7 per cent. Our membership in the African Development Bank was under Law 6398 in 2013. The number of Turkish entrepreneurs in Africa is increasing yearly; our businessmen operate from construction to textiles, from industrial machines to agriculture. Our membership in the African Development Bank is of great importance, especially for our construction companies to get a share of their infrastructure projects in Africa. Our membership in the African Development Bank will provide new jobs for Turkish companies operating in various areas across the continent. Co-operation with international financial institutions and development banks is an important tool for dealing with economic crisis and recession across the world. Turkey's foreign trade and the ability of our private sector to find jobs outside will also become more active with business units.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0173par0064	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0172par0065	Thank you. It would be in the interest of our country's economy to support and participate in serious regional financial institutions, such as the African Development Bank and the Asian Development Bank. Especially if we increase our capital share in the bank and increase visibility will make our presence within the country group we represent in the bank more active. In addition, it is possible for our country's companies to take advantage of the tender opportunities in these projects, since the projects funded by the African Development Bank can only participate in real persons and corporate persons in the African Development Bank member countries. Our firms have received $145m in tenders from projects financed by the African Development Bank since membership, which will also support the transformation process on the continent. At this point, especially the Turkish contractor sector will be able to increase its activity on the continent, which is largely under construction. The law wishes that the offer be a blessing, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0174par0069	Mr. President, I have a brief request.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0175par0070	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0174par0073	Mr. President, we've been talking all week about the effect of the coronavirus on the country, the health workers. The pharmaceutical profession that I'm in is Turkey, with 27,000 pharmacies, 38,000 pharmacists, sixty-four years of organization, and 54 pharmacies provide medical services, and today pharmacies are having a very serious explosion in terms of the number of applications. Especially from all the problems in the system these days, and the psychology that people are rightly affected by... when they go to the pharmacy and they can't find a simple mask, when they can't find a hand sanitizer, or unfortunately, in various international sources, it's good for treatment.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0175par0075	Let's move on.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0174par0076	Anyway, one of the most important, negatively affected aspects of violence against health workers has always been our colleagues. The package, released yesterday, did not have anything to do with many parts of society, nor did it have anything to do with pharmacists. People's Bank loans have been transferred to trade groups, but there's been no change in the loans the pharmacists used. Since the Health Ministry does not consider the staff working at the pharmacy on the mask or other equipment to be a health worker, and pharmacists face serious problems when they are facing the citizens because they cannot provide the needed high-guarded masks from the market. In particular, there is a right arrangement in favor of a citizen who can take the drug directly from the pharmacy without going to the doctor recently, but since it has extended the citizen's time at the pharmacy, they are still at grave risk for the coronavirus.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0175par0078	Yeah...
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0174par0079	I'm ending it, Mr. President. My colleagues, each of whom is a health worker, in the position of social leader of the community, who are in the position of social leader of the community, who are in the position of the public, who are in the position of consulting problems, sharing worries, who are in the presence of a citizen on the most painful day, are facing a very serious situation in this process; they have expectations from the Minister of Health, health authority, government, but especially from citizens. The problem with the pharmacist is that when a citizen faces up against him in the system, the problem with the problem is over the mountains. They serve with great patience, with great effort, with a big smile, and with a low profile of their own health, but they expect a little understanding from our citizens and a little understanding from the Minister of Health and other health authorities, from the rulemakers, to be seen, to be given their rights. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0176par0085	I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, I'm going to read the 2nd article: The Council of Ministers has been changed in the form of the President of the Republic, in the first verse of Article 4 of the Law 2- (1) 6398. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Murat Emir. Here you go, Mr. Emir.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0177par0091	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. At the beginning of my words, I pray for God's mercy on our soldiers who were martyrs in Idlib. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. The Idlib agreement was an important problem for how to control every two miles [6 km] of the M4 Highway, the softest abdomen of the agreement in Moscow, and we hope that this problem will be resolved quickly before it causes greater dangers and greater suffering. Dear friends, I'd like to share a new information with the General Assembly, which is a new approval from the FDA, which is based on the use of hydroxychloricin, an agent used to treat malaria, to treat coronavirus. The FDA is the top institution in the United States, which can give approval for drugs. So this is hope, and I think that hope should be expanded, and I must say that I am happy to share it with you. Dear friends, I'd like to point out that I find the AKP Group very sensitive this week, perhaps even a little arrogant. Now, of course, we're going to express the flaws, the shortcomings that we see, especially about the coronavirus. This has to be a bench where positive things are not always discussed, but less to talk about, but more to discuss inadequacies. As I begin with my words, I can honestly say, as a physician and as a politician: We support the measures taken by the Ministry of Health almost entirely. These are the right measures, I'm glad they're taken. There's no problem here, but not if you open your hands and react like this every time we say we're missing. Try to take advantage of it, because there has to be an argument outside and even above political polemics today. Dear friends, we've been saying for a long time that you're low on tests. You think it's a success, you're comfortable with virtual numbers, you're even a little boastful, but in the end, reality comes to your door and it lasts. So as the World Health Organization says, you will do tests, you will find cases. The test has been done very little since the beginning, and we are one of the least tested countries in the world. We've been critical of this, as Mr. Secretary said today that the test numbers will be increased; the fact that 10,000 cases have been made so far is unacceptable, I'll point out. It says: "You say it every time, this matter of the Umreans... " Yes, the people of the house... how many people have come? 20,000 people have arrived. How many tests did you run? Ten thousand. Look, you haven't even done a full test on the residents, how is that a success? How do you know they're not carriers now? How can you be sure of that? You can't be. We have to put some wisdom and science first here. I'm sorry about the test kit. The Ministry has insisted on a kit, why? At first, the insistence on domestic and national kits. Yes, it's a success to make a kit in our country, it's a success, it's a good thing it happened, and we're happy about it, but isn't it a diagnosis that needs to be done in the first place? Why insist on one kit when seven separate kits were produced in Turkey? So, why were these examinations conducted only in one precinct? Don't we have to think about this? Studies in all Turkey have been in Ankara for a long time. Let's move on, and then it was decided that it was only going to be done in HMD, and not even colleges were allowed to do that. And again today, Mr. Secretary said, "Yes, we finally gave this right to universities, even to two foundation universities." Why is it so late? Why is it so late? Shouldn't we be talking about this, guys? Now, the definition of a case was very narrow, and I criticized it from this stand. The definition of the case was that it's going to have some kind of relationship with people who are going abroad, and it's going to be a risk of getting infected somehow. Well, if you do that, of course you'll only find people who are connected abroad. Then the Minister explained, he said: "We have 47 patients, all of whom are connected abroad." So, what did you expect? You've only done tests on people who are connected abroad, but once you've expanded your case description, like today, you'll see cases after you've been diagnosed with suspicious, fever, fatigue, possible diagnosis of patients. We are, of course, interviewing scientists on the Science Council, and we are aware of how hard our friends at the Ministry work, including the Minister, but know this: in Turkey right now, many patients are losing their lives in intensive care, and they are very likely to be corona. I can't prove they died of corona, but I can't, but you can't say it wasn't corona. Why? Because you didn't test them. Most of them, look, the diagnosis of death, could be this corona? The diagnosis is based on tomographic findings. As a matter of fact, in his speech today, Mr. Minister said that Aytac Yalman's test was negative, but his CT was very similar to the corona, so they repeated the test again, "Could it be a corona?" So what I'm trying to say is that we need to be ready. Now, we say, when this plague comes, is our health infrastructure good? It's good, but we trust our most medical army, our doctors, our nurses, our health workers, our pharmacists, of course. They're anonymous heroes, and I can tell them they're gonna write an epic from here, but until then, is there enough respiratory support? Why isn't the Clave questioning this? So when you question that, we're darkening all that effort? Shouldn't we be working on these? Now, the mask is tied to the prescription. It bothers me.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0178par0102	What mask?
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0177par0103	The N95-standard masks are currently on prescriptions, my friends. I don't know if you can, but I can't. No one can find them, not even the paramedics. Not enough overalls, not enough masks. Is there enough medicine? We don't know. Because there haven't been tens of thousands of patients yet. Didn't we screw up at the disinfectant? Didn't we screw up part of the quarantines? For example, one more problem, I'll point out. The night that 33 of our soldiers were martyred, you found a breakthrough in stacking refugees on the border as a great military genius, a great strategic genius, mind-boggling. So Russia is coming, dropping bombs on your soldier, martyring our soldiers, putting people at the Bazakale Gate, which you can think of as retaliation. What happened to the people there? What are they doing now? Where are they? You brought them back. Because it was wrong, you guys, it was wrong, and you couldn't keep it up. Now, well, there were over a hundred thousand... even noblemen who said, "Here, you'll see it when the water is low; it's just the beginning." Look, even if the water drops, the wrong account returns from Baghdad, and now, are we aware of where, how, and what health conditions are being held by the people there, the people who have to live under those conditions? Well, have they been tested for corona? Well, now, how are we supposed to be comfortable with all this? If we're not gonna talk about this here, where are we gonna talk about it? Of course we need to talk. Now, I couldn't believe it, Mr. Secretary wants a round of applause for the health workers here, so it's tragic. We ask the Minister of Health for a solution to the health workers' problem, and he asks us to give them a round of applause. The applause is easy, of course we applaud, our health workers certainly deserve applause, but is that the right thing to do? Behold, you have gone out of your tongue, and lie on your ears, saying, 'This is a law of violence in health.' There's no end to the violence in health. Now, when you can do that, when you can fix the health care rights of health workers, when health workers need to prepare the most basic medical supplies they need right now, you're comfortable, you're relaxed, you can't understand that. We appreciate what's been done, but you must see these flaws as well as the High Assembly. These virtual success stories, there's no need to get into this early mood. I'm hoping that we'll be more successful than Italy, we'll all go out together, we'll all go out as a nation, we'll come out as heroes of our health workers, and I hope that we'll come out of here again by expanding our faith in common courtesy, understanding, common intelligence, science. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0179par0110	I submit the 2nd article to your votes. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 3- (1) is in effect in the history of this Law publication. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 4- (1) The President governs these laws. I submit the 4th article to your votes. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The commission's demanding word. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0180par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, some orators have questioned the accuracy of the meeting at this stage, a need to give information to the General Assembly. Now, this agreement is about protecting our voter power in the bank and allowing our private sector to get a share of the investment and trade opportunities in Africa. The meeting will be approved on May 25th and 29th. So, since there are some preliminary procedures that have been brought up at this stage, I'd like to submit it to information. Second, during these talks, the orator rightly referred to Syria, Idlib, coronavirus, and the deceased General Aytaç Yalman. We, as the Foreign Affairs Commission, did not want to pass the late General Aytaç Yalman, noting his contribution to Turkey-Suriye relations. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs played a great role in the construction of the Syrian and Adana Covenant during the 2nd Army Command of the late General. Turkey-Suriye Joint Security Committee was head of the Turkish side for several years. During these missions, I, too, had the opportunity to promote and attend meetings with him at the Damascus Embassy and the State Department. Indeed, Turkey-Suriye has contributed greatly to the development of relations. He was a soldier before peace and democracy, a commander who knew the value of international relations. We pray for God's mercy as a commission, our nation's head.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0181par0127	Mr. Anris, you have a request for a statement according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0182par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, a decision taken by our Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services under the measures of the corona virus was announced that pregnant people working in public institutions and institutions, persons using legal milk permits, persons 60 years of age and employees without disability and managers would be considered on administrative leave for 12 days starting on March 16, 2020. This is a straight decision. At this point, I'd like to draw the attention of a situation with children whose parents work. Children whose parents work in many parts of Turkey are left to grandparents in the morning. I mean, kids are all day long, sometimes on a yacht, in the risky group of grandmothers, grandparents. Taking into account the situation, I would like to submit this request to the Supreme Assembly, especially to one of the parents' parents' parents' employees, and especially the mother's right to be granted official permission not only in the public sector, but also in the private sector. And thank you for your promise.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit03spe0183par0134	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-03-19sit04spe0183par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal No. 197. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Proposal 139. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since there is no other work on our agenda today, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (March 24th 2020) to discuss law proposals and other tasks from commissions, respectively, according to the decision made. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
