tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Members of parliament, while opening the General Assembly, an attack on our road controllers in the Syrian province of Eluayn was staged by a bomb attack on Mehmetçik, two of our soldiers were killed and eight of our soldiers were injured. Surely our braves, who have shielded their chests throughout history to bring peace and stability, will not yield to the ambush of the traitors they have crushed on the front. This blessed Parliament is the voice, heart and soul of the Turkish nation. Any pain that causes the conscience of the nation must be expressed under the roof of this House. The great assembly of the great nation stood next to Mehmetçik, who fought at the front, even as the occupation forces were based on Polatlı. Today, if there is a Turkish son fighting in any corner of the world, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is with them. The Turkish nation, which embraces all the oppressed in the shadow of the moon star, which marks the seal of peace and peace on a land that longs for spring, will cut radical terror and separatist terror from Syria. The memory of our fallen martyrs, like a ruler, like a seed, will live in our hearts forever, and the comrades of arms will carry the banner that they have passed on further. Neither our friends nor our enemies should have any doubts about that. I hereby offer my condolences to the Turkish nation, Captain Yasin Kurt and Special Sergeant Oğuzhan Anar. [[AK PARTY, CHP, MHP and GOOD PARTY welcome]] Congressmans, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2019 Central Management Computation Act Proposal. Under the schedule, we'll be negotiating in the fourth round today. In the fourth round, I'm reading public administrations in budgets and precise accounts: The Ministry of Commerce, the Association of Competition, the Ministry of Health Accreditation, the Ministry of Industry and Technology, the GAP Regional Development Administration, the Chairman of the Regional Development Administration of the GAP Regional Development Administration, the Office of the Konya Plains Project, the Chairman of the Regional Development Administration of the East Black Sea Project, the Development Administration of Small and Middle Scales Development Management, the Chairman of the Turkish Standards Institute, the Turkish Patent and Marka Institution, Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency, Turkey's Academy of Sciences, Turkey's Space Agency. 1) Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Trade Ministry 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Competitive Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Helal Accreditation Agency 2019 Central Management Final Account == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account EPISODE TO PRODUCTION AND PRODUCTION OF LITTLE AND DEAD EMPLOYMENTS 1) The Central Management Budget for the Development and Support Administration of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2021 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Standards Institute Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent and Brand Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Patent and brand institution 2019 Central Management Final Account ISBN 0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0! 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management 2019 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Space Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Space Agency Final Account for Central Management 2019 Commission? He's in position. Members of parliament, under the decision taken, the talks on the tour will be pledged to the political party groups and to conduct their opinions in accordance with Article 62 of the Interior Charter. These times can be used by more than one speaker and will be five minutes each. Also, when the talks are completed, the question-answer process will be done in ten minutes for questions, ten minutes for answers, and questions will be asked without justification. It's for your information. In the fourth round, I run the names of political party groups, executive and individuals who are taking the words: In the name of the groups: Ahmet Özyürek, Sivas; Ramazan Kashlı, Aksaray; İbrahim Ethem Sedef, Yozgat; Abdurrahman President, Antalya; Ali Mumittin Taşdoğan, Gaziantep; İbrahim Özyavuz, Şanlıurfa; Esin Kara, Konya; İsin Yilmaz, Düzce MPs. Peoples' Democratic Party Group: Garo Paylan, Diyarbakır; Necdet İpekım, Batman; Hüda Kaya, İstanbul; Kemal Peköz, Adana; Ayşe Driver, Şanlıurfa; Şanlıurfa; Murat Çepni, İzmir; Dilşat Canbaz Kaya, İstanbul MPs. Republican People's Party Group: Aykut Erdoğdu, İstanbul; Orhan Sümer, Adana; Ismet Tokdemir, Hatay; Mahir Polat, İzmir; Abdurrahman Tutdere, Adıyaman; Bedri Serter, İzmir; İsmail Atakan Ümar, Karaman; Cetin Arik, Kayseri; Ahmet Vehbi Bakerlıoğlu, Manisa; Kemal Zeybek, Samsun; Ahmet Kaya, Tripoli MPs. Justice and Development Party Group: Bkent Tüfenkci, Malatya; Halil Etamamaz, Konya; Fahri Çakır, Düzce; Cengiz Demirkaya, Mardin; Mehmet Ali Cevheri, Şanlıurfa; Yakup Taş, Adıyaman; Ahmet Kütır Aydın, Giresun; Ahmet Tan, Kütahya; Mustafa Özrli, Kırşehir Derya Bakak, Gaziantep; Emine Yavuz Göş, Bursa; Ceyda Çetin Ersen, Kütahler, Ankara. GOOD PARTI Group: Bedri Yaşar, Samsun; Aydın Adnan Sezgin, Aydın; Fahrettin Yoshush, Konya; Muhammad Naci Cinisli, Erzurum; Imam Hussein Filiz, Gaziantep; Hüseyin Örs, Tripoli; Zeki Hakan Sıdali, Mersin; Ayhan Altıntaş, Ankara MPs. On behalf of individuals: Lehunda Husret Dinç, Hakkari MP; against Yaşar Montenegro, Iğdır MP. Congressmans, as you know, talks on budget tours are taking a long time. Therefore, I would like to ask that the speakers who are talking on tours today complete their talks during the time set aside for them. On the basis of the 2016 agreement, I submit to you that the speakers will not be given an extension. After all the talks of that political party group are finished, I will promise to complete the two minutes plus one minute, and I will not extend the deadline again. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the first word belongs to Ahmet Özyürek. Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0002par0075	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my National Movement Party Group on the budgets of the National Accreditation Foundation and the Competitive Institution of the Ministry of Commerce, and on the budgets of the 2021-Year Central Management Budget Proposal of 2019. I hereby salute the General Assembly and the great Turkish nation. I wish our heroic soldiers, who were killed yesterday in a bomb attack by a traitorous terrorist organization in the Battle of the Fountain of Peace, mercy from God, and immediate healing for our wounded soldiers. I remember the great Turkish nationalist, Hüseyin Nihal Horseless, who had the verses of his death in the year of his death, with mercy and respect, to lie in the cradle/to sleep in the grave/and to live in the home/heroes. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament -- while Mr. Minister is here -- I'd like to present to the Minister of Industry: Our Sivas is a city that is really developing with industry. We've got a new Iron Industry Site. And here we have 170 factories that have already been built into infrastructure, the rail system is ready, divided into parcels. The brave men of Sivas, our Minister, have always expected that as soon as the nearby provinces took advantage of the 6th district near us, our Sivas, who had the same criteria, they were equal, but they took advantage of the 4th district. The Sivasians are waiting: Mr. President gave this good news, and Mr. Industrial Minister, with Allah's permission, well, I hope Sivas deserves it, and he has the same criteria. The 6th district will benefit from special incentives, as Sivas said. And I say to the Minister, "For God's sake, Sivasians, the nephews are waiting for your good news, I hope you will sign the decree." Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Dear MPs also went to Israel yesterday to play the UEFA band game. He was held at the airport for nearly two hours, and authorities there said that the airport would be shut down at 1:30 p.m., but Sivasspor was kept at the airport for about five hours, even though he arrived at the Israeli airport about two hours earlier. I condemn Israeli rulers from here. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Precious lawmakers are the element of trade policies in our country, where trade is fast, safe and quality, continuing to operate under the same roof of domestic trade, foreign trade and customs policies. Within the world's trade, our country must be harmonised with institutions that have been transformed by an attitude that determines its position and are concerned with developing conditions. The world economy, along with its pandemic, has been negatively affected, and of course our country has been affected. However, our country has shown considerable resistance and continued displaying in terms of trade performance in pandemic conditions. At a time like this, our production infrastructure and export capabilities as a country have shown itself. At the same time, he proved that he has the potential to strengthen his role in global trade by making the best use of new opportunities brought by changes in global supply and value chains. In pandemic conditions, important steps have been taken by taking advantage of technology's opportunities to protect and develop our trade. In particular, Habur, Kapakule and Kapaköy were introduced to trade without contact at our customs doors, and transactions in exports and imports were carried out quickly and electronically. We also see that virtual trade delegations and virtual fair practices allow the introduction of exporters, and the use of strategically important e-commerce for our country's adaptation to the digital economy has been widespread. The Trade Ministry has paid $1.9 billion to our exporters this year. Support for branding processes, including companies in the service sector, for our exporters to hold on to the foreign market and for Turkish brands to go to market diversification in new countries. As a result of the stances developed by export policy, according to the latest data from the Ministry of Commerce, exports have increased by 5.8 per cent in October. Meanwhile, anti-damping and subsidies must be taken to protect our domestic producers against unfair competition and harm from importing. In our pandemic process, it has once again been understood the importance of supporting the activities of our tradesman and the artistic sector and the development of activities related to co-optarianism. Supporting the national needs to be introduced and passed on to future generations, the universal culture and philosophy that governs economic life as well as social life. The constitution has become a part of our Turkish society, taking the best regulatory role in the bond between producers and consumers. At this stage, steps must be taken to increase the employment of our tradesman, providing loans, taxes, bonuses and so on, bringing new entrepreneurs into the economy and increasing efficiency by improving product quality. In addition, it is important to diversify the training given to women and young entrepreneurs so that new projects can be implemented and introduced, and that they can enter business with sound steps. The Ministry of Commerce's work on this issue is promising for the future of our country as a manifestation of the economic and social existence of women and young entrepreneurs. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, today many countries, including our country, have adopted the free market economy system. The basic principle based on market economy is that economic relations are focused on free competition. In an economic order without competition regulations, there is no real mention of a competitive environment and market order. For this reason, the need for the creation of the legal infrastructure needed to ensure an unbreakable competitiveness has become the need of society. Many countries have established a competitive authority that supports and enforces a competitive law on their economic system. The Competition Foundation, established to prevent cartelisation and monopoly, contribute to the healthy functioning of the market mechanism for consumer benefit and boosting international competitiveness, must continue its activities by taking measures in accordance with the needs of the age. The Competitive Association must remain at an equal distance from its shareholders, regardless of the slightest distinction in the institution's transactions, sharing its knowledge and savings with the public within a certain order. Based on the decision and activity of the agency, the merger and the decision to take over were made in 2019. Companies established under the laws of the Republic of Turkey appear to be in the 91st part of the merger and the takeover process. Between January 1st and November 17th, 2020, a total of 177 mergers and takeover applications were agreed on, with the risk of significantly reducing the competition, but the four takeovers were taken into final examination. As it is our government's duty to ensure efficient use of public and private sector resources, any rights of our citizens operating in commercial life must be guaranteed. This can only be possible with the help of independent bodies capable of making decisions. The aims, free trade and free enterprise will be achieved by the Competitive Association, which has these features in the development and continuation of free market competition in our country. Another relevant organisation of the Ministry of Trade is the Hellal Accreditation Foundation, Turkey's only institution that has the authority to act in and out of the country, representing our country in its work on international platforms, and taking the lead in its work. The institution provides the services of the consumer by carrying out its duty to document. While studies are important to establish a reliable system at a global level in the field of halal documentation, technical cooperation should be increased in this scope. Since the start of the official application, the institution has received 32 grants, 15 of which are from different countries. The first phase inspections of 21 applications have been completed. With the trade of goods and services growing every day, our country must activate its existence by examining the existing obstacles in the helal trade. As a result of protocols with the Islamic Co-operation Agency's Institute for Standards and Metrology, the institution will become the centre for education in the legal standards, removing technical obstacles in front of the trade, and the trade will continue to develop by gaining a certain momentum. We hope that the institution's potential to represent our country in an international and regional sense will show itself further later on. I find the budget offer of $6 billion,585m,834,000, which the Ministry of Commerce has submitted in accordance with its purpose and activities, and I say we support the ministry and its efforts to expand its activities. Our budget...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0003par0095	Were we gonna give it to him?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0002par0096	I'm hanging up right now, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0003par0097	Are we gonna give it to you guys?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0002par0098	Mr. President, I wish you all the best. Wait a second...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0003par0099	Mr. Ahmet, now, we'll be extending for exactly two hours.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0002par0100	No, ten seconds, Mr. President, ten seconds.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0003par0101	No, no, total... I'm going to give everyone a minute, a minute, and I'm going to give them two hours.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0004par0102	Mr. Ahmet, it's okay, you've already said it.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0002par0103	Good luck with the budget.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0003par0105	Thank you, Mr. Ahmet. Now, it belongs to Ramadan Kaslı. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0005par0109	Mr. President... ▪ Victory is a fountain of hope. Victory is the union of many hearts. Even if those whose hearts are united die one day, Your voice will remain in the sky. The ones who unite their hearts! Greetings! Those who talk far away! Peace be upon him, blessed and grateful be his soul in the 45th year of his death. Once upon a time, there was an No Name. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Nationalist Movement Party Group on the budgets of the Competitive Institution and the Competitive Accreditation Foundation of the Competitive Ministry of Commerce of the Central Management Act 2019 with the Central Management Budget Proposal of 2021. I salute the Veteran Assembly and the great Turkish nation. In our 2020s, the esteemed lawmakers have particularly occupied our country's agenda with the outbreak of Covid-19, floods, earthquakes, forest fires, and many economic and political problems. Terror attacks, domestic and external conspiracies, operations against our economy, attacks on our sovereignty from Syria to Libya, from the Aegean to the Mediterranean, from the Middle East to the Caucasus, the year in which we were in the chaos of our nearby geography. A number of measures have been taken to reduce the impact of the Covid-19 epidemic on the economy and to ensure that not all communities are affected negatively by the process. A coveted battle against the worldwide outbreak of Covid-19 is being waged, while its determination to protect both our rights to terrorism and sovereignty is being fought in many fronts against seven heifers. There has been no significant break in Turkey's economy, perpetuated by the difficult fluctuations that have been taken at the time and courage to take the necessary measures. Members of parliament, the basic principle based on the market economy is the assumption that economic relations are competitive. Economicly, competition is a competition in which sellers in a market take on more customers to increase their sales of goods and services, and thus their profits. Using the powers vested in him in the Law on the Protection of Competitiveness, it is the foundation of the institution's mission to prevent competitive, disruptive and restrictive agreements in the markets, decisions and practices, and attempts that dominate the market, to prevent them from abusing these sovereigntys, by making necessary regulations and audits, to ensure that competition is maintained. It is the key element of trade policies to ensure that the trade in Turkey is made easier and safer, but also faster and better. The AVM and the large market chain opening a branch in the center of the city should be adhered to by the rules so as not to break the terms of fair competition. Under the influence of the Covid-19 epidemic and the measures taken, additional measures must be taken to our other small shop, along with our non-workable grocery store, textile store, shoe store, coffeehouse, restaurant, cafe, hairdresser, wedding hall, canteen, domestic operators, bus driver, taxidermist. In traditional sectors, local producers need to increase their competitiveness, improve our logistics by taking advantage of our geopolitical position. In addition, effective control mechanisms are required to prevent regulation and practices of structures that lay the groundwork for irregularities. Dear lawmakers have expressed the assessment, approval of its competence, regular monitoring and monitoring of its competence by the institution according to national and international-accepted technical criteria of the institutions operating in the area of the second issue of my speech, the halal Akreditation, the evaluation of its legal fitness assessment. Healthy living conditions and nutrition are a basic human right and need. As a matter of fact, this right is included in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. The right to good food and service is linked to freedom of faith. Our great book, the Qur'an, O ye who believe! Eat of the pure and lawful. Helal documentation provides a positive opportunity for believers beyond health because healing, product and service is a prerequisite for fitness. As every person has the right to eat clean and healthy, every believer has the right to feed and serve, according to his beliefs. The first is the basic human right, and the second is the necessity of human freedom. Today, food and service sectors have grown incredibly, diversified and gained international dimensions. Thousands of products from raw matter to additives have been used to produce food, while many new areas of service and consumption have emerged from tourism to transport, cosmetic to energy. It has become a necessity for all of these areas to be considered in terms of health as well as in terms of Islam. And the most obvious way to do that is to make it legal documentation. The Hellenic food certificate is generally a useful and beautiful development for the Islamic world and for our country in private, but a number of practical and supervised setbacks cloud this beauty. Because the purpose of using a halal food certificate is that a process is being followed from a farm to a table. However, a number of negativeities may also be involved when giving or inspecting legal food certificates. Congressmans, the Hellal Acreditation Agency is also important for its active implementation of its duties and powers, the creation of a globally acceptable legal documentation system, and the overcoming technical obstacles in the helal product trade. In this scope, the Institute for Standards and Metrology of Islamic Countries, under the framework of the Islamic Co-operation Agency, is considered the most appropriate forum to organise the creation of the betting system. The Institute for Standards and Metology, which is prepared with the contribution of member states of the Islamic Co-operation Agency, determines that the technical barriers in front of the trade will be reduced and thus the volume of the legal documented trade will be increased by the activation of standards and the implementation of a harmonised accordion system. The study of halal documentation in Turkey has gained speed in recent years, and with NGOs, the Institute of Turkish Standards has launched studies in this area. Helal documentation is based on the standard of Islamic States Standards and the Metology Institute, which is involved in the process, both with a scientific and technical approach. However, there are organizations in our country, such as the World Hellal Union, the Association of Foods and Needs Inspection and Certification Research, which are working on this issue with civil zeal, and they seem to have made considerable distances for the audit of documents they provide. In our opinion, the study of legal documentation can be compared to the experience of law enforcement in the field of Islamic law. Such a comparison can be a solution to problems that may arise, depending on the differences in religion and opinion in the history of the conflict, and will lead to a healthy conclusion, without denying the phenomenon of the religion and the sect. The standardization of scientific views in modern times will help develop relations between Muslim communities, amplify feelings of unity and unity. Food safety and commercial stability can be achieved through standardisation of law enforcement and stability. I wish our budget of 2021 to the Ministry of Commerce, our country, our nation, our state, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0006par0128	Thank you, thank you. Now it's time for Abraham Ethem Sedef Bey. Here you go, Mr. Sedef.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0007par0132	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party on the budgets of the Ministry of Trade budgets in the negotiations of the General Assembly of 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2019 Central Management Computational Law Proposal. I salute your esteemed delegation. Dear MPs, our party is a radical movement that evaluates regional and global, political and economic developments, within historical and cultural depth, with strategic understanding and a Turkish perspective. He's not just daydreaming about the powerful Turkey of the future, he's calculating beyond the horizon. Our president and leader, State Gardener Beyin, lead my country and nation, and then my party and myself, to the consistent, primitive, honest and moral politics in their understanding. Congressmans are a country that has the ability to be the center of attraction and attraction of the Turkish, Turkish and Islamic world, thanks to the resources, the resources, and the historical, cultural, human values and resources we have. The National Movement Party is determined to build a civilization based on Turkey and Turkish-Islam culture, as stated in our election declaration, and to raise the mighty Turkish nation to its rightful place. A new march of civilization, launched by the Turkish nation, will take its spiritual climate from Turkish-Islam sources and cultural foundations from our ancient values. By establishing national unity and integrity, societies with a strong economy that strengthens cultural values and social structure can become decisive actors of the global order and receive more from the world's prosperity. It is possible that by completing the process of development and democratisation, it is more than a review of the great and long-standing state tradition and historical savings in the conditions of the new century. We continue and continue all efforts as the Cumhur Alliance for Turkey, where production is encouraged, provided by a competitive and righteous economic policy, where Turkish entrepreneurs can have power over the world economy. On the one hand, Turkey has been fighting relentlessly with Å and other terrorist organisations, while on the other hand, it faces attempts by the surrounding and Turkish enemies to corner Turkey financially and politically. The measures necessary to prevent political and economic operations that reduce the peace and prosperity of the Turkish nation are inevitable. We have to create a system of rational use of resources based on competitive market economy and free enterprise. We need to make a high effort to create a strong production economy based on technological development, efficiency, stable growth and employment. We must not refuse to apply economic and social policies in harmony in order to look after the narrow and fixed incomes. We need to look for ways to reach a prosperous society by increasing investment, production and employment with strong industry, strong economy, strong democracy. We need to get the economy back and forth as soon as possible. However, for political stability, we need to make our economic growth sustainable. Information production should be supported as a means of the age of knowledge, quick and easy access to information, the most efficient use of knowledge. We need to create a production economy based on technological development, innovation, efficiency and employment. By reducing our economy's dependence on external resources, we need to make it shock-resistant and reduce vulnerability. A competitive production economy facility is inevitable by reducing production and export dependency on imports. Together, we must take the necessary steps to bring down inflation permanently with productive economic programmes and to relax all parts of society. Congressmans, our country is struggling against seven heifers these days. In this process, we, the National Movement Party, have been with and will continue to be with us at the end of our state and nation, especially in foreign policy, fighting terrorism, and in the face of attempts by anti-Turkish environments to block Turkey economically. As the Republic Alliance, 2023, 2053 and 2071, we will not compromise our firm stance by making every effort necessary for the establishment of our targets. Economic security must also be a priority during this period, when trade wars are triggered by economic operations through currency, interest, hot money. Turkey should encourage production consciousness in all areas, not be taken out of mind by external dependency that will lead to captivity. In a Turkey that has achieved its goals, political, social, economic stability has been restored, chronic problems have been resolved, joint national and spiritual values have been met on the axis, the political, social and cultural foundations of the national union have been strengthened, nationalised in the integration of rich common values, and the law of a thousand years of brotherhood will be exalted. Dear lawmakers, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, we face the largest global economic recession worldwide. However, our exports in the first ten months of the year are described at the levels of 135 billion,658 million dollars. According to OECD (OECD) reports, Turkey is the least affected country among the G-20 countries, followed by foreign domestic product changes in China and South Korea. Mr. President, my esteemed lawmakers, under the Economic Stabilisation Shield Package, 749,256 trades have been used for up to 36 months, 4.5 per cent interest rate, six months non-payable support loans. Our shop owner, who lost direct income in the pandemic process, is now due to repayment of his debts. In my constituency, Yozgat, our small tradesmen, whom I strive to get together at every opportunity, express that they are in great distress. The burden on our tradesman's back has grown because of Covid. With new packages to be implemented, our tradesman must continue to be supported in the second wave of the pandemic we live in these days. Coffee shops, diners, cafes, hair salons, service drivers, wedding halls, student dorms, and filling-up tradesmen must be taken into consideration. Supports for our tradesman and artist, such as zero interest loans, delaying loan repayments, and paying grants, taxes, the SGK and BUGKUR bonuses, should be included in the agenda. It is a fact that the driver's shop needs commercial fuel support more than ever. The truck, bus, bus, taxi and service service should be supported by differentialing the driver's shop, the car he will receive and the tax on the fuel he will use. The school cafeteria executives, closed in the pandemic process, don't know what to do. It should also be considered not to receive a year's rent from public school cafeterias. And also, our tradesmen are urgently awaiting a pardon on their record. Our small tradesman struggles with unfair competition while dealing with the chain of markets that spread to even the furthest parts of our country. I'm saying that there must be an arrangement for positive discrimination for our little tradesman, that the Competitive Association should somehow prevent monopolization. I declare again that we support the Ministry of Commerce's budget pencils as the National Movement Party. I give you all my respect, love and respect.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0008par0147	In turn, Mr. Abdurrahman belongs to the President. Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0009par0150	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Nationalist Movement Party Group on the budget of 2021 of the Veterans' Scientific and Technical Research Foundation of Turkey, KOSGEB and Turkish Academy of Sciences. Before we begin my words, I would like to express my condolences to Captain Yasin Kurt and to all our martyrs who were killed yesterday in a treacherous attack on the Battle of the Fountain of Peace. I hereby salute your grand delegation and the great Turkish nation watching over us on television. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been a major influence on the world and our country's economy by the new type of coronavirus that affects the world. For the last year, the world has been going through an extraordinary time. If we say that the Coronavirus epidemic has had the most severe impact on the world economy since the depression of the 1930s, I don't think we're exaggerating. Because of the Coronavirus threat, our shopkeepers and business owners have had extraordinary days. Of course, fighting extraordinary circumstances requires extraordinary measures. The measures and restrictions taken in the fight against the epidemic have been seriously affected by our business and business owners. However, our government is mobilising all its resources to ensure that our merchant, tradesman and industrialists get out of this process with the least possible damage. With the announced economic packages, measures and measures have been taken to reduce the impact of this process on our tradesman and business owners, and measures will be taken if necessary. Dear MPs, regardless of the level of economic development, SMEs in all countries are the leading forces of economic and social order in terms of the ability to create both numerical and employment. SMEs contribute to creating new jobs, their ability to adapt to market conditions, their effects on economic and social development are increasingly indispensable in the developing and developing country's economies. The backbone of the Turkish economy, no doubt, is the KOBI. SMEs also play important roles in social and democratic life, not only in economic life, but also in social and democratic life, with their roles in resolving regional development differences, spreading property on a broad basis, establishing justice in the distribution of income. What happened during the outbreak showed once again how important and critical the tradesman, the craftsman, the merchant, and the industrialist were in the day-to-day economy. Directly or indirectly, the number of people affected by the challenges faced by these sections is 10 million. Many products and services have once again appeared to be important in maintaining both employment and sustaining economic activities, offering them directly and directly to consumers. HOW important it is to support SMEs, tradesmen, and artists, is the undisputed truth. In that sense, I also want to express that I care very much about KOSGEB activities and experience them personally. The importance of COSGEB is especially increased in this period because it is a public institution that specializes in tradesmen and SMEs. COSGEB continues by boosting its support to ensure that added domestic production is supported, that high technology is spread through SMEs and reach a innovative and competitive structure. COSGEB is the greatest supporter of our COBI through its savings and experience. The KOSGEB's contribution at the access point of access to financing is also admirable. Specially in our country's difficult times, it is accompanied by emergency support loan programmes and our SMEs. We believe that he will continue to be with them in the future with support programmes to be developed. For all of these activities, we see that COSGEB (KOSGEB) is up 14.7 per cent from the central management budget for 2021, which aims to ensure that entrepreneurs are innovative, technological and competitive. This increase is satisfactory. Of course, it should be noted that in this time of extraordinary process, if the budget is not sufficient, it may be necessary to find additional resources for our COSGEB (KoSGEB) and for our store. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the 4th industrial revolution has entered a period in which labor has replaced intensive production of information and technology. In this period, science and technology policies are the basis for sustainable economic and social development. Non-investors, non-technology countries cannot gain the international competitive advantage. The actors of the new era will be scientists, designers, engineers, researchers, entrepreneurs who can regenerate. Turkey's leading institutions in science and technology are the Turkish Institute of Scientific and Technical Research, TÜBITAK and the Turkish Academy of Sciences TUBA. The creation of our own climate of science and technology, the reduction of external dependence in technology, the creation of domestic and national possibilities and the establishment of structural transformation in the manufacturing industry are important tasks for TÜBITAK and TUBA. TÜBITAK has had a very important position in the field of science and technology in Turkey since its establishment. His position has grown stronger in recent years. We proudly follow research and development activities from TÜBITAK's defence industry to space, from polar studies to astronomy, all of Turkey. With the support they provide for academic and commercial R&D projects, the young entrepreneur is leading and leading our country's progress on RD with the resources it provides for its programmes. We also believe that the Perfection Centers Program, which will increase cooperation in the innovation ecosystem, will allow high-tech products to be produced, and the Industrial Innovation Network Mechanism programs will have serious impact on reaching a strong and prosperous Turkey. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers should never be overlooked for their contribution to the defence industry, which increases our country's inner and external power and prestige. TÜBITAK, the Institute for Defence Industry Research and Development gives serious contributions to our country's defence with the first domestic air-to-air missile developed by Sage, Bozdoğan and other high-tech products. We fully support these domestic and national steps that will reduce the outside dependence of the defence industry. TÜBITAK has been taking steps to support Turkey's development in the host of science and technology for fifty-six years. The Technology Stars and Experimental Technologies of the Future are the best examples of this, offering special high school-level students three years of comprehensive and free technology training from robotics to artificial intelligence, cyber security to nanotechnology. The Turkish child is smart, hardworking; all that needs to be done is guide them in the right direction. (Applause from MHP rows) With the right direction, I believe that in the future, dozens of Saint Sancars are confident that we will raise them because Saint Sancar stressed the importance of disciplined work. We are interested in the work of the TÜBA (TİBA) on the future map of Turkey's fundamental science policy. The Turkish Science Report, published in November 2020, contains important analyses and suggestions, and I want to thank those who have done the work. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, in light of the work that has been done in our Veteran Assembly so far, I consider the budget proposal to be consistent in achieving its goals in the general part of the purpose. In particular, according to the programme budget classification, we find it positive that the total resource for research and development is $6 billion,842 million. So seeing that the TÜBITAK budget has been raised about twice as much, seeing that the COSGEB budget has been increased, shows that investment in these areas will increase, and we are pleased. Mr. President, I'd like to make a brief assessment of the tourism sector as an Antalya MP before I put an end to my remarks. Antalya is the most important tourist city in our country, and it contributes greatly to the country's economy in this sector. However, the tourism sector was the head of the most affected sectors in the global pandemic process and thus our province of Antalya. The tourism industry has regained momentum as part of its normalisation steps in June, and although part of the losses have been compensated for the summer season, unfortunately the season we left behind has not been a good season for the tourism sector. However, what I would like to express with great hope is that at a time when everyone has serious reservations about traveling, tourists who come to our Antalya are without problems, extremely successful and an example to the world. In this difficult time, Antalya gave a successful test with his tradesman, with his citizen. I find it helpful to point out that the Safe Tourism Certificate Programme, which is put into effect in this sense, also has a great contribution to this success. I think and hope that the successful test will lead to strong return in 2021. I think the support for the tourism industry will continue to increase in the coming year. With the support of our government, Antalya will overcome this process with minimal damage and write new success stories in the tourism sector. Anything that means we're all set as an agency. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0010par0166	Thank you. The order belongs to Ali Muhittin Taşdoğan. Here you go, Mr. Stoneborn.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0011par0170	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Action Party Group on the budgets of the Turkish Standards Institute, the Turkish Space Agency, the Turkish Patent and the Marka Foundation, as part of a round-up talks between 2021 Central Management Budget Proposal and 2019 Central Management Computational Law. Before I begin, I salute your esteemed delegation and every member of the great Turkish nation who follows us at the beginning of their screens. Standards have come to us as the solutions needed to maintain order for everything that has touched life since the day mankind was created. Because standards are essential for the best assessment of the resources that are limited in the world. But the practice of standardization in terms of economic and social life has taken place in the last century around the world. Standardization should be judged as a process of implementing certain rules and rules with the cooperation and cooperation of all concerned parties to provide economic benefit for a specific activity. In this context, standards, standardization and quality management are very important factors in the aim of creating national technology, which is the most important topic in our country's industrial and technology strategy, as its goal to make it authentic with domestic and national possibilities. Turkey's Standards Institute, one of our country's pupil institutions, has been a pioneer for sixty-six years in order to continue innovation activities that have brought value to the Turkish industry and to produce high quality at a low cost. As a result of these activities, it serves to boost our country's competitiveness, facilitate its trade at national and international levels, and improve the life level of society. The TSE is moving rapidly towards becoming an international documentation organisation, not only within the borders of our country, but especially in neighbouring countries, including independent Turkish states in Turkish geography and Islamic geography. Various ministries run joint projects and studies with public institutions and institutions and universities. Members of parliament, a single approach to standard testing and document understanding of trade has been quickly adopted worldwide in today's global economic order, as goods and services have increased the rate of circulation between countries. In particular after the Covid-19 pandemic, the standardity of production alone will not be enough, but the need for serious structural changes in documentation, examination and examination services will be necessary. At this point, we think there will be a need to produce new projections for standardization, fitness and evaluation. At this point, I'd like to draw your attention to some advice on standardization and quality management. Congressmans, many factors, such as the development of a quality-based power source, the production of high-profit products, improving the competitiveness of national brands, providing customer satisfaction, guaranteeing the quality of imports, overcoming export barriers stemming from lack of quality, creating scientific knowledge, are closely related to standardization training. The establishment of a sustainable economic structure that feeds on quality depends on the integration of standardization education into the existing education system and the development of new educational programmes. Otherwise, it would force the lack of scientific knowledge and specialized personnel about standard and standardization, thus leaving national quality behind global quality. In regard to these, the Chinese sample will be very revealing to us. So that in the 90s, as we all remember, China had a very serious product quality problem. Today, China has been able to eliminate this problem largely as a result of the addition of its product quality and standardization training programmes to the education system. We are all soon witnessing what level of technological output China has reached in this sense. Members of parliament should be considered that the development of human resources to improve standards, to interpret them, to implement them, to govern them, and to build their quality systems will eventually create a national quality culture. It would be helpful to integrate the economy, scientific knowledge, quality, and the ability to sustain the human resource, as well as to open programmes to national education programmes. As a result, vocational upper secondary school, department, faculty, and university majored in standardization should be established or added standardization classes in the current departments. In addition, there can be significant contributions to standardisation of a qualified labour force and scientific knowledge source, either via various exchange programmes abroad or by sending students directly to graduate or doctorate level. Thus, quality development and transformation can be based on science and professionalism because digital transformation and development in the world are now in a new version as part of the phase. In order for our country to get its share of the global cake, it must develop and promote its own digital standards. The standards, particularly the strong aspects of the national manufacturing industry, can lead to the distribution of the global market share in our favor. Our manpower is our national ore. We cannot afford to miss and miss this opportunity for the geographical, social and political issues that we live in and the fate that has been imposed on our nation to be torn apart. Members of parliament, despite the new strain of coronavirus that has affected the world, patents to the Turkish Patent and Marka Institute continue to increase in 2020 in its good model applications. According to the first six months of 2020, a total of 71,753 brands have been applied, 64,241. The rate of domestic brand application has been registered at 89.5%. The Turkish Patent also makes efforts to promote Turkey's geographically marked products in the world. In particular, there is a sweet competition between our provinces in terms of geosignation and approval. As it is known, our country's first application for the European Commission's geographical marker is for the Antwerp baklava. The city of Gaziantep is also the leading city with proprietary geographical markers, such as the Gaziantep baklava, Antalya nuts, Gaziantep copper hand-processing and Gaziantep pedophilia. In 2019, Gaziantep, our brand city, which attracted attention by applying for 3,619 brands, drew attention to its application for a geographical sign. In 2020, we were the first to apply for 55 geographical markers. Our products, such as traditional pomegranate sours, which have been geographically marked by application for Nizip mint and the Oğuzeli municipality, have been ranked in the 2nd place this year, which has been registered. Congressmans, I hope on December 25, 2020, we will celebrate the 99th anniversary of Gaziantep's deliverance from enemy occupation. Its unique historical heritage, such as Yasemek, Tylen, Zeugma, Rumkale, the world-famous rich kitchen culture, the industrialization model for the Anatolian industrialisation, and most importantly the entrepreneurial human profile of Turkey. In this process, I remember our 6,317 martyrs who made great sacrifices, who paid the price with their lives, and our heroic veterans with mercy and gratitude. On behalf of my party and my own, all of our fellow citizens, who have been working superhumanly during the branding process, who have taken over our veteran city. Precious MPs, great litigator, contractor, Horseless Ata. Of the Turkish nation, Hüseyin Nihal Nihal Horseless Bey, I look forward to it and, with mercy, remember his own lines: ▪ What spirit cannot be remembered when drunk, How nice of them to say there was once a horseless man. Blessed Ancestor, blessed be thy land, for there was once a horseless man. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] I salute our Veteran Assembly, the name of Gaziantep.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0012par0189	The order belongs to Mr. İbrahim Özyavuz. Here you go, Mr. Self-Subject.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0013par0192	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my National Movement Party Group on the budget of the GAP and DAP presidents in the Central Management Budget Proposal of 2021. I salute our Veteran Assembly and the great Turkish nation following us. The GAP Regional Development Administration was established by the State of the Law on the Institutions and Jobs of the GAP Regional Development Administration, published on October 27, 1989 in the Council of Ministers's Decision and in the Official Gazette (November 6, 1989). The GAP, the most comprehensive project in our Republic history, is the most effective of regional development plans ever laid out. The GAP is an international literary project with integrated regional development approach and sustainable human development philosophy and brand value. The watering of most of the Plains of Harran since 1995 has led to an increase in diversity, efficiency and income in the agricultural product pattern. Mr. President, good lawmakers, there are bans all over the world, such as travel, trade, and curfew, to deal with the Covid-19 epidemic. The borders of countries have been closed, human crossings have been reduced. In the process, the countries had to be able to fend for themselves. Agriculture is vital to self-sufficient countries. Agriculture and soil are bread and water. Therefore, the importance of agriculture and agriculture workers should be increased, and their rights should be better protected. It is once again understood the importance of the GAP (APP) that has given life to agriculture in our region. In this case, to get more efficiency from agriculture, similar projects such as GAP and DAP need to be focused on. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are the victims of power cuts and irregular currents at the center of the GAP. The power outages in the houses cause the devices to burn down and break down. Electricity cuts cause production to cease at workplaces, costing our citizens millions of dollars. The electricity company has no investment in preventing illegal use, although the cause of the blackouts is seen as the height of illegal use. Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, the failure of the Northwest Environment Road, which is vital to the construction of the Universe's Industrial Site, which is in our Hall of Fame, is the victim of our tradesman's loss. The Şanliurfa-Gaziantep road, currently used, carries about 60,000 traffic loads. The Northwest Environment Road, which is scheduled to end in 2018, is planned to prevent future financial and unwanted fatal accidents, to eliminate the victimization of our tradesman and citizen, must be completed immediately. The fact that the road is finished at the same time as the Quick Force Bridge junction will solve the traffic problem in the region greatly. It was also discussed that the speed train project would be included for a long time, but it was excluded from the project. The use of the fast train project is vital to students, small tradesmen, small-income citizens and agricultural workers. The fast train line, which will also affect the economy in the name of our province, must be extended through Gaziantep to Şanlıurfa, and even to Mardin. Mr. President, Sannlıurfa, the largest province of Southeastern Anatolia with its population approaching 2.5 million, should be more used than the Ministry of Health investments, and the city hospital should be completed and opened in Şanlıurfa. Patients are being transferred to other cities due to the lack of hospitals and doctors, which leads to victimization. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are one of the most important Turkmen cities in the world and the Middle East, known as the city of prophets and saints, where people of different religions, ethnic origins have lived for centuries in tolerance. In our glory, Gobeklitepe, the first university in the world, the University of Harran, Bazda Caves, Shuayb Ancient City, Han El Barur Kervansarara, Balıkliggöl, Urban Castle, Urban Yakup well, Birecik Kelaynak Production Station, Ayyub Nebi Derfet, Sakikent Halfeti, and many historical and cultural values that I cannot name. The restoration of the historic Arasa bath in Şanlıurfa Square, and the destruction of the surrounding structures, the expansion of the 250m-long road to 58 Square, is of great importance to the emergence of historical structures. Again, the restoration of the Şaban inn and other inn built in the 17th century in the Ottoman Empire must be completed immediately. Mr. President, the honorable MPs, Ibn Haldun. The word of Geography is destiny. The word of our state is the definition of our historical responsibilities that exceed the borders of our nation. As a Turkish nationalist who loved our fate and geography from the calubela, who wanted the Turkish Islamic world, the outbreak of Covid-19, the human dramas of our geography tested by humanity, our Eastern Mediterranean policy, our humanitarian aid to Syria, our politics in Libya, our energy-seeking activities in the Black Sea, and all that we've done for Karabakh, who was finally liberated in 27 years. Therefore, the Cumhur Alliance is a rebellion against captivity in the 21st century; the Cumhur Alliance, hope for the oppressed, fear for the traitor; the Cumhur Alliance is the Turkish will of steel against the exploitation states; the Cumhur Alliance is the state; the Republic Alliance is the nation. (MHP and AK PARTY) The Cumhur Alliance is the stand-up of our President and our leader, Mr. State Garden, against the world; it is the slap of Turkish ▪ on global imperialists, on the two sides of the Bosphorus, and on the other side of the ocean. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Dear MPs, I'd like to address the political leaders here today through the National Movement Party and our Mr. Leader. The leader of the ulterior motive that dedicated his life to his country and his nation, State Gardenian, is the sworn oath to the flag. The State Gardener is a symbol of the love of the country. The State Gardener is respect for suspicion, the State Gardener is a servant to the nation. The State Garden is the last bastion against the enemy, and the great threat to the survival of traitors is the State Garden. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] I wish the budget of 2021 to be good to our country, to our nation, and to the great Assembly and to the holy nation.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0014par0209	The order belongs to our Koniya MP, Esin Kara. Here you go, Mr. Kara.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0015par0212	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the budget of the Office of the Regional Development Administration of the Iconian Plain Project 2021. I salute the great Turkish nation and its great Parliament. Studies for the development of the KOP region are conducted by the Chairman of the District Development Administration of the Conium Plain Project, which was established in 2011 under the Law Code No. 642. The presidency also operates in economic sectors such as energy, transport, IT, industry, trade, tourism, and social sectors for the disadvantaged parts of culture, art, youth and society, especially agricultural sector projects. Aksaray, Karaman, Kırıkkale, Kırşehir, Konya, Niğde, Nevşehir and Yozgat have 12.2 per cent of Turkey's total facial measurement. Because we have the least rainy provinces in the region, agricultural products are being produced in accordance with the dry climate, and therefore the type of products are restricted. Although 17 per cent of the watered area in Turkey is located in the KOP region, 4 per cent of the available water supply is in the region. Agricultural irrigation is often done using underground water. Especially the use of underground waters is causing serious problems in this regard. After a decline in the amount of water, sinkhole formations and decline in efficiency bring many problems for our farmers. Because of seasonal droughts, the product has a recluse decline. Also, because of the unconscious use of underground water in agricultural irrigation and insufficient rain, the lake of Beyşehir, Salt Lake, and Akşehir is at risk of the institution. Measures must be taken to prevent droughts, to increase efficiency in irrigation and productivity in production. Current irrigation systems must be rehabilitated and work on the spread of pressurized irrigation systems. In particular, work on winter currents in the mountains should be carried out by increasing efforts to build small storage and irrigation facilities on rivers that are completely dry in the summer, as well as supplying water for the current small-scale open-channel irrigation systems to be turned into closed grids. In addition, the project should be directed to the planting and planting of products with high benefits for locals. To strengthen the region's agricultural competition, land collection procedures must be carried out, irrigation projects must be implemented, and agricultural infrastructure must be improved. The savings and efficient use of current water should be implemented by projects that will enable water transfers from the Red River to resolve the region's water emergency. The measures for increasing efficiency are vital for the agricultural future of the Plain of Iconium, and for our country's food security. Increased share of the region's renewable energy sources in energy supply is crucial to Turkey's energy supply security. The KOP region, the sunbathing period, the total amount of radiation coming to the horizontal surface, and the unusable vast flat terrain have begun to take the lead in the production of solar energy from solar energy. It is possible for the KOP region to use its potential to turn threats into opportunities to turn our country into a new attraction. To this end, a total structural transformation programme must be carried out in the region. A improved KOP region will enable Turkey to reach its goals in 2023 and 2021. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Captain Yasin Kurt of the gendarmes, Sergeant Oguzhan Anar is not our first and will not be the last. Sultan Alparslan to Ataturk, who inherited us from the Sultan Alparslan, will not cease to be the last Turk to fight for the land of Turk until the end of the day. May God Almighty make the great Turkish nation victorious, the great Turkish army, the great Turkish state victorious until the end of the day. [[A round of applause from MHP, AK PARTY and GOOD PARTY]] Mr. President, today is December 11, 2020, the 45th anniversary of the death of Huseyin Nihal Horseless, leader of Turkicism, who led us from the steppes of Central Asia to China, to Open-Kun, Güntül, to pursue a madman. Once upon a time, there was a horseless man, God rest his soul. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] I wish our budget well for our country, for our nation, for our Veteran Assembly and for his great Turkish nation's great Parliament.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0016par0224	The order belongs to Mr. Umit Yilmaz Bey. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0017par0227	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the budget for the President of the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration, which is the 2021-Year Central Management Budget Proposal and the 2019 Central Management Accounting Law. I salute the General Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation. Yesterday, I wish God's mercy and urgent healing to our veterans, who were killed in an attack by terrorists from the PKK/PYD-YPG in the Peace Fountain area. I also remember the Horseless Ancestor with mercy on the 45th anniversary of his death. Our country is the legal infrastructure of development agencies with the Law relating to the services of Development Agency 5449, which was released in 2006. In light of developments in the European Union's accession process, development agencies have begun to establish according to the three regional systems called statistical regional units and are being classified. 26 development agencies have been established under Level 2 and one of them is the East Black Sea Development Agency. The Eastern Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration was founded in 2011 as the DOCAP and began its activities in April 2012. The DOCAP covers 11 provinces with the participation of other provinces after it was founded. The DOC conducted co-operation projects in Amasya, Çorum, Samsun, Tokat Provinces; Artvin, Army, Giresun, Silverhouse, Tripoli, Rize provinces; and KUDAKA (in Bayburt Province). The population of the residents of the DOCAP region covers 6.7 per cent of the population of Turkey, while the facial measurement is about 10 per cent of the country's facial measurement by 76,871 square kilometers. THE DOCAP has enabled the implementation of projects in the East Black Sea and the implementation of research, planning, programming, projecting, monitoring, evaluation and coordination services required by investments in the cities where development projects are implemented. The DOCAP, established to produce projects to speed up the development of the region, has co-operated with universities in the region to contribute to agricultural production, tourism, animalism, beekeeping, and social development from the year it was founded. Despite their distance between 50 and 60km from each other, valued lawmakers differ greatly from the level of development and their share of national income. Our provinces in the West Black Sea, Bolu, Sinop, Karabuk, Bart, Kastamon, even Zonguldak, have a very low share in national income. The establishment of regional development management to cover the differences in development and industrialisation of cities so close together will contribute socially and economically to the underdeveloped provinces in the region. The Western Black Sea Project, which will help to develop the provinces of the West Black Sea and the Central Black Sea, is expected to establish and co-ordinate the region with a straight centre of the Regional Development Administration. Projects that will be produced by the Western Black Sea Region Regional Development Administration's MARKA, BAKKA and KUZKA (KUZKA), will develop co-operation between the regions and will support regional development. Düzce and Bolu, although our province remains in the MARKA region, there are considerable differences between the province of Sakarya and the province of Kopeli in terms of income and social development. Although the Western Black Sea region is adjacent to the Marmara region, economic, social and investment differences cause the two regions to separate by thick lines. The Regional Development Administration of the Western Black Sea will briefly establish a link between the Eastern Black Sea and the Marmara regions, developing projects in many areas from agriculture to animalism, tourism to transportation, beekeeping to industry. As a result of the establishment of the Western Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration, the development of the region will also lift the power burden on the Marmara region. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And I'd like to thank Mr. Trade Minister for his work here at Customs County.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0018par0237	Peoples' Democratic Party belongs to Diyarbakır MP Garo Paylan. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0019par0240	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you all. And I salute our fellow citizens who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. Mr. Ministers, welcome to the General Assembly. We're going to talk about the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Industry and Technology, dear friends. In 2011, Recep Tayyip Erdogan told me some of the dreams, and said: "I will move Turkey to a $2 trillion economy. Look, the GDP of Turkey will be $2 trillion," he said. Dreams are 2 trillion dollars, the facts, the 700 billion dollars that we live in today -- a goal that barely reaches a third -- and our country is getting poor every day, dear friends. He had another dream, which concerns our Minister of Commerce: I will export $500 billion in exports in 2023. Dreams cost 500 billion dollars, facts cost 170 billion dollars, friends. He had one more goal: "I will reduce inflation to 5 percent and below. " Dreams are five percent official facts 15 percent, reality in the marketplace 30 percent. He said, "I will reduce unemployment to less than five percent." Dreams are five percent real number, official number 12 to 13 percent, friends in the market, street, coffee, 30 percent known to our citizens. There's 30% unemployment in this country, 10 million unemployed. Well, now I ask the ministers: Now, they represent a result themselves. I mean, why does this country produce so little or so little trade? Why can we only sell $170 billion in products instead of $500 billion? Why are 10 million of our citizens unemployed? Let's put the hat in front of us and think about it. Friends, Turkey had a story, and everyone wanted to invest in this country while Turkey had a story. First citizens of the Republic of Turkey, then foreigners wanted to invest in this country. Turkey has lost its story in the last five years, my friends. Let alone foreigners -- they're already on the run -- citizens of the Republic of Turkey are not investing in their own country. Citizens of the Republic of Turkey aren't investing in their own money. With 60 percent of the bank's money, where are the Indians and the nationals? 60 percent of the money in the bank is invested in dollars, euros, and 80-90 percent in locals, national claims, and our citizens are investing in dollars and euros. Why are we like this? Come on, let's put the hat in front of us and think. Dear friends, because we're in this situation because of one man's regime. Look, the one-man regime said it was going to blow up Turkey; look, we crashed upside down. Here we see the result of the one-man regime and the hammock, the report card. We're stuck with $170 billion in exports, and there's a Turkey that can't produce. Mr. Mustafa Varank will come and say: "I am producing, my friend. We know what he's producing, he's presented a Ministry of Industry; you think he's the Chief of Staff; he's the Minister of Defense; he's here; he says he's made tanks, cannons, missiles." You set up TEKNOFEST, you go to TEKNOFEST: Tank, cannon, missile -- sir -- drones, SHAHA. And for the good of the land, for the good of the world, for the good of mankind, friends? What do you make?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0020par0246	That's all for the good of the land. Which isn't for the good of the country.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0019par0247	Welcome! Guys, look, for humanity's sake, people are making stuff in the world. Look, I'm going to give you an example, and I'm going to give you an example from this land, and I'm going to tell you what people do when they leave this land. You know, in non-free habitats, Mr. Varank builds tanks, cannons, missiles, starts a war here and there; inside, outside, he creates violence, disrupts our peace.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0021par0249	We're not starting a war, we're not starting a war, we're ending invasions, we're ending invasions.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0019par0250	Look what our citizens who had to leave Turkey have done. Dear friends, three vaccines have been found in the world, three vaccines have now been found in the developed world. Mr. Varank is also on his way to find the lover. He said, "I'm going to find the lover." He's on his way to June to perhaps the third phase of a vaccine, Mr. Varank. (Applause from HDP rows) Friends, why is he picking up the shoe? Look, friends, in the free habitats of the world, the people of this land from Turkey, look, Mr. Uður Şahin and Mr. Özlem Türeleci, our prides have found the vaccine to save mankind from Covid.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0022par0253	When did they leave, Mr. Garo?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0019par0254	Guys, they did it at BioNtech. They were able to do so at the free habitat in Germany.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0022par0255	When did they leave?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0019par0256	Because Germany invested in science, because it freed people, there they went from free Turkey to a free country where the people of Turkey produced science.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0023par0257	When did they leave?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0024par0258	That's where our people make them. It's your wishful thinking.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0019par0259	Dear friends, look, I'm going to give you another example: moderna, the people of this land, who found the second vaccine, do you know the people of this land, Mr. Varank, the people of this land. Noubar Afyan founded Moderna. In 1915, while the Armenian people were driven out of the land, they found their place in America, finding a vaccine to free a third generation Armenian humanity from Covid. Another example: Pfizer. He's from this land. Look, Pfizer, the one who found the vaccine, he's Albert Bourla, the third generation from this land; they've been making medicines for the benefit of humanity for three generations, and they found the vaccine. Dear friends, these are the people of this land. If they'd stayed on this land, they'd have been sitting in Mr. Varank's chair, maybe they'd have found a vaccine in this country, but Mr. Varank is sitting in this chair, so he's building tanks, cannons, missiles, friends.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0025par0262	Has the vaccine been found?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0026par0263	Isn't Varank a man of this land?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0019par0264	But look, the people of this land are creating technologies to save humanity in other habitats. Dear friends, what do you see in one man's regime -- in Saddam's regime, and in Gaddafi's regime? You see tanks, cannons, missiles.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0027par0266	America doesn't make guns, France doesn't make cannons, doesn't make rifles, Germany doesn't make war planes!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0019par0267	If those countries are horny, let Mr. Varank continue on this path, I'm not saying anything. Let this House decide, and let Mr. Varank decide all its resources, make tanks, cannons, missiles, but neither Saddam nor Gaddafi was impressed. Iraq and Libya have all their country's resources in arms, but these countries haven't fallen in love. Look, they've become the poorest, poorest countries in the world, but those who invest in democracy, invest in science, invest in technology, move the country forward. Now, they're going to say: "We've found gas, friend." Look, I'll give you another example: Mr. Varank, I met a Turkish citizen at Boston University last year. In Turkey, when you were trying to produce science recently, those rectors you appointed put stones in front of him because of his identity, the appointed rectors, the deans. He couldn't produce science here, so he went to Harvard. Friends, you know, Harvard found a cure for diabetes.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0028par0270	When did he leave?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0019par0271	He left seven years ago. He left seven years ago and found a cure for diabetes. Do you know what medicine is valued at? They're trying a drug worth at least $100 billion.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0029par0273	Who sent him there?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0030par0274	Listen.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0019par0275	We found gas. You said they're going to pump out 50 billion and 40 billion will cost $10 billion. Look, a Turkish scientist cures diabetes, can't hold on here, finds a cure for diabetes in America, Harvard -- $100 billion worth -- friends. And that's what free habitats are made of. Dear friends, in the Industrial Revolution, we were shoeed, see, we were shoeed in the Industrial Revolution; we came from behind, we didn't grow our country. In the technology revolution, we're dead. You all have iPhones in your pockets, you all have Samsung in your pockets. Come on, here you go, local, national cell phone. You're all using Apple computers, guys, all of you. Where's the locality? Where's the nationality? But look, we've been kicked in the tech revolution.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0031par0278	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0019par0279	Now, a new revolution is coming: Green New Agreement, Green New Agreement; America is on its way, Europe is on its way, and the developed world is on its way. What are we doing, guys? Look, they're going to produce technology, and they're going to double their economy. If we miss the third revolution, the Industrial Revolution, the technology revolution -- if we miss the Green New Agreement revolution, we'll still get the horseshoes. They're going to build their electric cars with batteries that drive 1,000 kilometers, and they're going to generate their energy with green energy. Mr. Varank is still after the thermal plant. The asset fund is building a thermal plant, guys. That's why we're here. That's why our tradesmen are hungry and exposed, so there's no money in the budget for the Trade Ministry's budget to support the tradespeople, my friends. Look, developed countries produce science, technology, keep their resources, friends, and give support to their citizens when the day comes. What are we doing? Investors of arms in war can't look at their tax-paying business for 40 years on a tight day. Let the Minister of Commerce come out and say, "There is a source in my budget." You shut down hundreds of thousands of tradesmen, you didn't support them for a penny. I have a budget for them. Let him say, I won't say anything, my friends.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0031par0281	How is he lying? What's with all the support? What are the supports?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0032par0282	Don't scream, don't scream; listen, listen!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0019par0283	But, you know, friends...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0033par0285	We don't give out extensions.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0019par0286	Thank you, friends, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0034par0288	Karabağ also took a shoe, and Karabağ also took a shoe!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0035par0289	You're uncomfortable with the truth! Mr. Aydemir, you and Cora don't sit side by side, you turn each other on.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0034par0291	He doesn't feel like he belongs in this land, he doesn't feel like he belongs in this land, he's hostile to Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0035par0292	You're enemies of Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0034par0293	Read about his interview with the New York Times in America, and then...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0036par0294	Congressmans, let's hear from the clerk, Mr. Lawmakers.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0034par0295	Read your interview in The New York Times. Turkey is a traitor who accuses it of genocide, nothing more.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0037par0296	Get out of here!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0038par0297	You rob this country, you rob it! You're the traitor!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0039par0298	You sold the country a parcel.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0037par0299	And you're running away, so get up and say it!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0038par0300	Come here if you have the heart!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0037par0301	Go out there, say it, go out there, say it. Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0040par0302	It's Mr. Necdet Silkface's turn to speak. Here you are, Mr. Silkface.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0041par0304	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, it is now 12:30 p.m., and in many parts of Turkey, health workers stand for one minute of silence. Actually, I'm here because of my speech, or I'd be at the Ministry of Health right now. Some of our friends are there, and a lot of healthcare professionals are there. Why are they there? Friends, because of the pandemic, in nine months the number of health workers who have passed by has lost their lives, and what has happened to the health workers who were applauded in the first place? No permits, no resignations, no pensions, no transfers, no autonomy rights, and even though we've proposed several times over, there's no regulation for professional illness. Is this how you're going to fight the pandemic? Is this how you support health workers? From here, we pay our respects to friends who are acting in front of the Ministry right now, making statements, supporting them. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Guys, we talked about pandemics, we talked about fighting pandemics. I told Mr. Trade Minister at the Plan and Budget Commission, I told the Competition Agency. We still don't know what standard the mask we're wearing is. Now, look at the team; you, your assistants, the other Minister, when you look at them, you don't know which one is the standard. And I told you recently, we're already getting VAT -- which citizen is going to wear which mask, TVs are explaining. Well, can't this Ministry make this arrangement? Can't this Ministry do a study on this? You didn't lift the VAT, but I told you here, you're removing the VAT from the National Lottery, which is the National Lottery, which is gambling and special. Yeah, it's a shame! Well, mask standards are unknown. Don't give it away for free. Back me up, he's not here either. You've changed it eight times, there's no arrangement. Is this how you're going to fight the pandemic? On the one hand, you don't support health workers, you don't consider occupational illness; on the other hand, you do the struggle with perception, you do it with your televisions, you make everything look like a rose, but it's a hoax. Now I'm going to talk about another trick. They're watching us on TV here, guys, and you know what happened with this crisis? In the market -- the big majority doesn't go -- the market dropped grams; the oil can was 5 liters; now it's 4.5 litres, it's 750 grams -- it's the same size -- it's the olive 400 grams. Do you guys know how they do it? They're getting us used to this. When you go to buy fuel, always give 100 lira, the road you go down, the distance you cut, but for 100 lira, it's like the price of fuel doesn't go up. Now, the rate is going down, but believe me, the food going down people's throats is going down, the way people are going down. Here's the truth: 99% know it, 1% don't know it. But he also knows that 99% of the way you're going is getting shorter, less and less, and it's ending because there's nothing going down the throat. Another: Friends, we've been arguing since yesterday; this power is dealing with colors! You don't deal with Gramaj, you don't deal with anything else, so stop it! It's the Competition Foundation, the Ministry, how can people eat, how can we protect them from competition, instead of dealing with colors, you have to conduct a study for them. Color has no age, no religion, no ethnicity; freedoms must exist. Dear Garo's told me a lot, but what about the tradesmen? You're only postponing loans on the merchants, Mr. Secretary, and you're saying: "We're paying loans." Ya, loans are given with interest. Now that you've brought a lot of restrictions, it'll come out in the morning and at night... what about the rent, the employee, the livelihood, the people who deal with it, not the problem. We've given up on this, we've given up on the SMEs in Turkey... you're calling it the COBI, the COBIs, the SMEs, the SMEs, the SMEs, the SMEs, the SMEs, the SMEs are going through hell. Why? Yesterday, we, the People's Democratic Party, announced a package of debt, and we said that there is another thing in Turkey that you're growing -- you're always saying big, mega, you're dragging Turkey into debt; the biggest thing you're raising is debt. How is the citizen paying for this? Executive files are growing; they're growing in COBI, they're growing up in the shop, they're growing up in the house; they owe money to... And the vast majority of the budget goes to interest and goes to debt. What's being done about it? There's nothing, there's no explanation for the tradesman, but here's what you're doing: We discussed this in the Plan and Budget Commission. Guys, I'm gonna share something with you, and it's all over the press. It's always called the locals. In public, various tenders are open internationally, companies enter; that's how you open this tender, but in order to support the native, you're free of official tuition, tax, you can make exceptions. It's in the papers, it's on TV; some firms are bidding at close to 9 billion, you're bringing back about 9 billion pardons, and you're doing this... Do you know what companies you call locals do? He buys a jet for $40 million, $42 million, to fly directly from Istanbul to New York. So, what's going on, guys, do you know what these jets are like when they're flying internationally? You don't get a T.V. from the fuel he buys. Yeah, he's gonna get it from the farmer's diesel; the farmer's gonna get it from the poor, the citizen; what kind of thing is that? As long as you don't do it, as long as you don't organize it, it's over. Especially when this world is growing, most of those local, national companies work abroad. In fact, you need to go back to the shopkeeper, the COBI, and when you don't return, it's over. Another institution, in fact, would talk very much about this Competition Foundation, and it had a lot of work to do, but I'll tell you this: What is your competition, my friends, because we, as the People's Democratic Party, are actually just, really able to produce an economy that everyone can reach? What are they telling us? We brought in one man, we brought in one man, you'll think of one. We're also thinking about monotheism in capital. There'll be six, seven firms, not holdings, trust. It's not a monopoly, it's gonna happen; you're gonna take care of them. We know all things well with these things, and you are evil with them. The Competitive Society does not make any arrangements, does not make any objections. Friends, there are certain companies in Turkey, there are energy, there are commitments, there are media. Who are you kidding? But there's one thing you're doing, you're all managing that perception together and you're calling it nationalism. What did the Competition Agency turn into on the international market? The various research engines on the Internet say that they have converted what they can't do legally into a method of tax release. You make this arrangement because you object to competition. Friends, maybe it's in accordance with regulations, maybe it's in accordance with the law, it's not legitimate to follow every law, it has to be in the public's conscience, in order to be legitimate. A lot of what you do is illegal, and it needs to be fixed as soon as possible, as long as it's not fixed. Friends, I'm going to talk about another job that doesn't apply to conscience: Mr. Secretary, when you look at it, when you open the Ministry of Commerce's page, and many other studies, it talks about the importance of cooperativeism, especially in the case of female cooperatives. Our criticism there, though, is that co-operativeism is done with local governments; it's done with NGOs; it's not done with a grocery chain; it's not co-opted with the logos of a grocery chain; it's not done by hanging his poster on a train, hanging it on buses. It can be supported; it should support the public, not the Ministry. I'm not naming the store. But friends, the district of Bismil, Diyarbakır; the appointed co-chairs assigned a 200-acre field to women to grow grapes, tomatoes and various products, and these women were poor and had children, families. On the one hand, she was organizing women, on the other hand, cooperative, solidarity. The City of Siirt has launched a similar practice again, the Baykan municipality, again, a co-operative called Suruç. The trustees came, you know what they did first? They shut down these cooperatives. Are you going to support women's institutions, or are you going to do it? The first thing you have to do is say to those trustees, "Ya, we're against it; we're against it; it's not going to happen, we have to take care of it. You're not sincere unless you do it; then go around with the markets and talk about the cooperatives. You've already finished the grocery store, finished the business. Every street a grocery store, every street a grocery store. Oh, you think you have your own way of doing everything? You're not sincere when you're not doing this. So, what's the solution? We explained it yesterday. The solution to this, the People's Democratic Party, says that the way out of this swamp is justice in the economy. When there's justice in the economy, there's social peace. But remember, there is no justice in the economy without social peace. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit01spe0042par0319	I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0042par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. The commission is in place. In the name of the People's Democratic Party, it is now Huda Kaya. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0043par0007	Mr. President, Mr. General Assembly, I salute you all. As I begin speaking on behalf of my group on the 2021 budget section of the Ministry of Commerce's Hell Accreditation, I humbly salute the tens of thousands of lives, thousands of people who were unjustly thrown into the dungeons as a bright and conscientious, fair souls of our country, and tens of thousands of lives in exiles. Dear friends, when you take a little stroll on the official websites of the Hellal Accreditation Agency, you get an impression of the institution. What does "Helal" mean? The official website of the institution states: It means that it is safe to do so, which is in accordance with the rules allowed under the Islamic law. The scope of the concept of "Helal" is not only comprehensive with food products, but the concept of "hellal" is based on Islamic rules, but it appeals to all mankind because of its close and unbreakable bond with the concept of "tayyip" (also). Dear friends, in all the talks, shares, and videos of the institution, the word "tayyip" is often highlighted along with "helal. " Of course, we know the meaning of the word "tayyip", but in general there is this image: The Hellal Accreditation Agency continues to operate as a subsidiary of the AKP, not as a state institution. I can put it this way: studies of religious services abroad have been shown about our advisors and attaches. Again, online work has been shown for those working abroad. It's not just food, it's food to tourism, it's politics to celebrate, it's an institution that shares its word in all areas. And here's an online interview with some well-documented Muslim-friendly tourists. But they also have different shares of the Hellal Accreditation Agency. For example, helal is courage. It's a good Friday. They say it's a good share. For example, heal is compassion. Good Friday, they said. Heal is a blessing, they say. "Helal is trust." They say it's about the Abyssinical Week. Helal is peace. Have a good Friday." They said. Of course, trust is important, peace is important, courage is important. They're not strangers to us, we're already doing these things in our lives, in our struggle, but there's another share of them again." ...as you can see here in Turkish, Malayca, Indonesia, Arabic, English, and many other languages. There are other good Fridays in this country, but there are no good Fridays in the language of Kurds, who are our millions of citizens. And I wish our Kurdish brothers good Fridays from here to here on Friday. [[Applause from HDP rows]] And it is not for us to have the right to live in the most lawful of men, the most sacred of them, the right to think, and the provision of their mothers as lawful as the milk of their mothers. As a Turk, I am allowed to study in the native language as well as in the Kurdish native language or in other languages as well as in education, freedom as in the mother milk. It is also forbidden to the Turk, who is forbidden to the Kurd, because it is also a Koran and a universal human principle. Everything that is lawful to the Turk is lawful to Laz. It is lawful to the Kurd. It is lawful to the Armenian. It is lawful to the Rum. If you take only one race and our own race as a sovereign, superior identity, and call others "haram," you would violate what Allah has said, which is to declare war on them. How does the Hellal Foundation call this budget legal? He said a lot of things, you see him on his website. I'm asking you, Mr. Ministers, to the authorities: is the palace lawful to the Koran -- as the Helalin is highlighted there -- Muslims, Islam is often stressed on the site -- according to the Koran? Is the waste lawful to the Koran? Is racism lawful to the Koran? There is no waste in power. The word is forbidden according to the Qur'an, friends are forbidden. Don't be sad, you'll be miserable if you feel sorry. This word is forbidden according to the Koran. It is to wage war against the values of the Qur'an, against its principles. But here's something I'll tell you. Here's a genuine and domestic and nationally legal prescription. Our brothers and sisters know that word, that principle. What is this? Take your hand, your tongue, your waist! Here's a local and nationally legal prescription. Again, as you can see here, they shared both May 1st and March 8th on Women's Day, which is good. There are nice shares, but on the one hand, congratulations, congratulations, but we also know how the same power drove us to violence in the squares on November 25th, March 8th. How intimate are they? What Turkey do we live in, what society do we live in? Aren't we the women of Turkey? What March 8th, whose women's only day, while we raise the voice of women in the square? Yes, wasteful, torture, lies, corruption, slanders, distortions of facts, and these are fundamental values, as are forbidden in all beliefs, from the most advanced societies to the most primitive society. You can't lie, you can't waste it, you can't insult it, you can't slander it, you can't distort the facts; if you're using the word "hellal" as an Arabic concept, you're using it as a religious concept, you're twisting facts, you're covering facts, you're saying denial means denial, which you don't want to say. Woe to the corrupters who, when they take from others, take from themselves in full, but when they measure and weigh for others, they gain the rights. I wish we could have a little bit of that, a little bit of thought for this betrayal of our country, our beautiful homeland, our beautiful people, where they ran Turkey and ransacked it. Yeah, speaking of women on the one hand -- there's no time -- there's a lot of important stuff, and I haven't even gotten into the palace yet. More execution...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0044par0018	Haram... Haram...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0043par0019	So on the one hand, we're helping Tunus, 156 countries, billions of countries. In a land boasted of it, our people commit suicide by writing work and food. You have forbidden life, you have forbidden breathing; you stand up and distort the truth, saying, "We are the representative of all things, we are the representative of the religion, we are the representative of the nation." Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0045par0022	The order belongs to Mr. Kemal Peköz. Here you go, Mr. Peköz.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0046par0025	Mr. President, ministers, congressmen friends, I salute you all. I have a pledge from my group on the budget of 2021 of the Ministry of Industry and Technology. Even though the Ministry's Court Review Report of 2019 was routinely prepared, I came across two findings, and I'd like to talk to them about them. The first of the findings is about investments, about government support in investments. The state supports some investments, but it's said that if they're doing the necessary work for these investments, a board should be formed to see if it's actually being used in accordance with its purpose, but so far it hasn't been established. So we have no idea, neither do the Ministry, where the support is being used, how it's being used. The second finding shows whether or not the ledger records laid down according to the accounting regulations mentioned in Law 5018 are kept, and regarding that, the Ministry's municipal diplomatic missions have issued some fines for support that is not actually being used properly. However, since there has been no commission for this, 66 per cent of the sentences for such support have so far not been collected so far. The Ministry, on the other hand, must follow them and make an effort to collect them. Of course, they are often given these incentives, and they are more comfortable with providing these incentives to those who are close to them, so they do not make any special effort to collect them. Now, friends, as the world moves towards the green economy, I'd like to take a look at where Turkey is going. The ministry's idea of industrialization, not just as a whole of the Ministry, but as a whole of the government, the Ministry has made a very clear stance that the industrialisation approach, as seen in the mining attempt, would result in the destruction of nature, its water, its land, its life. It's not just this Ministry -- as I said -- that's the approach of power, because instead of rebuilding nature, nature is quickly consumed to satisfy its needs for the moment. For example, there should be a system of punishment for carbon emissions, which is the opposite when it should be punished by the environments that are polluting the country. It's like we've been able to clean up our garbage so much, we've been able to sort it out, it's importing garbage from abroad, and Turkey's getting a little dirty with it. Yet we can only purify 11.8 percent of our own leftovers, so we can clean them up. These imported wastes are polluting Turkey, polluting our country a little bit more, but neither are their supporters making money, getting money into their pockets; the country is dirty, uncleaned, and doesn't give a damn. We also have an imported domestic car issue, my friends. About the imported domestic car that started in 2011 -- it's not sure when it's going to happen -- it's a different matter, but when will it come, Karakash, the CEO of TOGG, said: "For the battery, which is one of the most basic components -- for this car -- we've met with six Chinese-weight companies, and we're going to agree with one of them. We've agreed with the German company, Bosch, for the electric engine. We've agreed with the German engineering firm EDAG, who is also a partner in technology in car integration. In the mechanical evenings, we agreed with the British company Myra (BiH) for the chassis systems. We also agreed with the Italians for the design. Now, we have six or seven companies to build domestic automobiles. Well, I don't know what's native about this car. We all like to see a fine, fine, leveled native automobile on our streets, on our streets, but it can't go beyond this fantasy. The Ministry of Industry and Technology took action on the domestic car in the first 2015, and then made a deal with the Swedish company Saab. At the present stage, there will be no deals with the Saab firm, but with other firms. The Saab company has also been paid $40m; with this $40m, much more can be done in Turkey, while the money that is being paid to this Saab firm is now in fact in the trash, which is of no use to it. Our domestic car dream will likely continue to be a dream for a long time, and not a native one will not be able to go beyond being an automobile. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0047par0033	It's Mr. Ayşe Driver's turn to speak. Here you go, Mr. Driver.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0048par0036	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our people and our thousands of comrades in prisons who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. I have a pledge on behalf of my party on the budget of the GAP Regional Development Administration. Yes, as the budget talks continue, I would like to talk about what happened in the area of the GAP project, where you have budgeted serious budgets: there have been no permanent solutions to the region's problems over the years, including energy and employment. Turkey's largest dam, the Ataturk Dam, is able to meet 20 per cent of the country's energy needs, while there are serious power cuts in Viranşehir, Siverek, Suruç, Hilvan, Halfeti and a division of the country. We've brought up the power outages in Urbana over and over again, but so far, no solutions have been reached. The Ataturk Dam is also located in the GAP region, but in the agricultural activity in the area of the Gap, the farmer has to build a transformer, open a well and pay industrial-type electricity bills in order to reach water. The lack of water channels compels DEDAŞ, and it also forces the farmer to give up production. On top of that, the decision to take the support of the farmer who owes DEDAŞ money directly from the bank and transfer it to DEDAŞ is published in the Official Gazette, and thousands of citizens are victimised in this way. You can't find such an example anywhere in the world. In short, the AKP's power is compressing the public socially and economically with the help of the DEDAŞ in Urbana, Mardin and Diyarbakir, impacting agricultural production and day-to-day life. So where you're going to be a social government, you've taken on a special state for corporations. We'd like to ask you if you're aware of the work that DEDAS did to the people of the region, to the farmers, to the shopkeepers. Your import policies against the farmer who wants to produce are so out of control that you now bring grain, olives and olive oil from northern and eastern Syria. But just so you know, the delivery of the Afrin olives is not import; it's, in the least, agricultural combo. Students who should be home-schooled because of the pandemic are currently living in isolation from education and even from the world because you do not establish Internet and network infrastructure in many parts of the region, especially Urbana. If the budget is to be planned, these problems must be planned by taking into account. Again, because you do not provide employment in the region, thousands of people go to cities far away from the cities with high unemployment rates, such as Urbana, Mardin and Diyarbakır, each year as seasonal agricultural workers. If you had applied the GAP project on the right basis and could have been the answer to the public, the Harran seasonal farm workers would not have returned to Urbana in coffins in a car accident in Kumak. Yes, seven people were killed in that accident. Once again, dozens of people are dying on seasonal farming roads, and the example I'm talking about is just one of them. Urbane is a large agricultural city with fertile soil. This has to come to your consciousness and provide solutions in that direction. Let's plan this budget to include women, children, seasonal farm workers and people. People can be fed where they were born. Because seasonal farm workers are trying to survive three seasons in 25 square metres of tents. Children's seasonal agricultural workers strive to contribute to their families' livelihoods, far from education and social rights in the age of development. Here, if the current budget does not respond to these problems, it is necessary to ask again whose budget is this budget? We're renegotiating the country's budget, but unless NGOs, farmers, trade unions, women, children, disabled and animal rights advocates have been fully applied, that means this budget is not for the public, but for the palace, for the government, for the 40 companies and the torpedo companies -- the construction company -- is the budget.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0049par0044	5 plus 2.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0048par0045	Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0050par0047	It's Nusrettin's turn. Here you go, Mr. Gamein.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0051par0050	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. At first, I honor all the martyrs of peace and democracy in the person of the Tahir Elçi. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) I salute all prisoners of freedom in the person of our former Co-Chair, Selahattin Demirtaş. [[Applause from HDP rows]] While we're discussing the country's budget, I'd like to start by saying that I personally have no personal problems with any member of parliament here, nor can we, but we have problems with AKP power. The AKP's power, to me, is a legitimate government, and has brought the country to the edge of a cliff in 18 years. The budget of this illegal government is never legitimate. So I'm not going to talk about the budget and I'm not going to criticize the AKP. Turkey has become a problem with all countries where it is politically historically related and is geographically neighbouring. In domestic politics, there's no such mechanism as separation of forces. Justice, law, legislation has completely entered the monopoly of one man. Legislative activities are supposed to be the main operating ground of the House, but the law proposed by bureaucrats of the one-man regime is held by raising hands in parliament. Elections in Turkey have lost democratic function. On June 7, 2015, he took our people to the November 1st election so that they could not accept the outcome of the election and build their own dictatorship. In the local elections of 31 March 2019, co-mayors elected by the will of the Kurdish people were detained, arrested, and replaced by special officials. Political genocide operations against HDP, the roof party of peace, democracy and freedom in Turkey, continue nonstop. All those who criticize power and seek its rights are declared terrorists. According to the AKP, I want workers, workers who are after their sweats, and workers who are going to die. The shopkeepers, who are questioning, students, Kurds who are seeking their rights, Kurds who are fighting for their rights are already terrorists. I want to give you a few examples of where power has brought the country economic, social and politically, where it has brought it: the unemployed army has survived 12-13 million, there are more than 600,000 teachers waiting to be appointed; and also, in the pandemic process, when all countries are opening support programmes for their citizens, the AKP has sent power to the people; it is literally checkmate. I've had enough of myself, I'd like to die. Dear friends, a dozen bodies, a dozen bodies. There have been mass suicides in this country due to economic deprivation. We witnessed suicides by parents, teachers, municipal workers and truck drivers who could not bring bread to their homes. We all remember the suicides with cyanide, the cyanide, according to the AKP. Maybe someone forgot them, we didn't, we won't. According to the Labor Health and Occupational Safety Council report on the November work murders, 294 workers lost their lives in November and 2,032 workers in 11 months. Clearly, the AKP views workers, workers, farmers, women, nature and all living things as objects, and considers it a natural right for the capital to impose judgment on them. There's no other explanation for what happened. The German rating agency Scope Ratings, which was considered to represent the European Union's economic approach, published the Report on Foreign Breakness and Persistence on May 3, 2020. The latest three countries, including notes on 69 countries, are Argentina, Turkey and Georgia. Friends, in this country, it's an unwanted issue: the Kurdish issue. So what is this Kurdish thing? What is the truth of this matter that is being discussed differently by everyone? Dear lawmakers, this issue came up with the 1916 Sykes-Picot Agreement, with 22 Arab states drawn with a ruler under Ottoman control. With this share, the Kurdish geography was divided into four parts. From that day on, the Kurds failed in international order with this agreement. The Sheikh Sait movement was the main goal of all these actions, including Ağrım, Dersim, Koçgiri, Zilan, and the struggle for Kurds' right to determine their own destiny. These actions were suppressed with the support of imperial forces, particularly the Turkish regime. The Mahabad Kurdish Republic, founded in Iran in 1946-47, supported and condoned the destruction of the Kurdish Republic of Mahabad, the Democratic Republic of Azerbaijan, in 1945, after the threat of the Soviet Union by the United States and the United Kingdom. Again, on March 11, 1970, the issue of autonomy between the Kurdish regional administration and Saddam remained the only issue of Kerkok, while the Baas regime agreed with the Iranian regime to deal with the Algerian Agreement in 1975 and share the water route with Iran. Together, after suppressing the Kurdish movement, the Baas regime broke its agreement with Iran, killing people from Iran and Iraq for over eight years who were more than a million people for this Shattular and water road. Now, again, the independence referendum held by the Iraqi Kurdish Regional Government on September 25, 2017 was 92 per cent, yes. The Kurds who lived there were saying that we now want independence. So what happened? The common concept of Turkey, Iran and Iraq, on the other hand, stepped in the way of independence by allowing the imperial forces to condone the situation. As Kurds, we are the largest people in the 20th century who have been massacred by imperial forces and by their support. In order to overthrow Saddam's dictatorship, the Kurds acted together because they partnered with some imperial forces, particularly the United States. This is exactly what happened in Rojava today. Now, as Kurds today, we struggle to live together in equal and free conditions with neighboring peoples on our geography, we insist on peace. In Turkey, we continue the struggle for Turkey's Turkish and Kurdish people to live together in equal and free conditions, and we will continue to continue. Vice President Fuat Oktay has been trying to show that he is the only one representing the Kurds, but the Kurds are represented by this Parliament. Now I say: Mr. Fuat Oktay, if this Parliament represents Kurds, let's make a new constitution, secure the existence of Kurds and all the peoples living in Turkey; let's make sure that all the peoples are educated in their native language; let's support the press and cultural and artistic activities of all the peoples; let's give these people a place in the budget. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But we know very well that you have returned from the Kurdish issue to denial policy. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) We all remember as if it were yesterday, the AKP needed Kurds' votes in order for it to come to power in the first term. That's why he brought up the Kurdish problem, but all the Kurds know they've been setting up trap politics to cheat the Kurds and to undo their gains, not to solve the problem from the start.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0052par0068	Thank you, Mr. Gamein.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0051par0069	But the Kurds really wanted to solve their own problem. The material spiritual loss of 35 or 40 years of conflict has become unbearable for the Kurdish people.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0052par0070	Congressman...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0051par0071	Even if there was a 1 in a thousand chance of a solution, the Kurds would stand up for it. It is our call to our people: Let us turn HDP's march of democracy in June into a ruling march in the upcoming elections.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0052par0074	The order belongs to Mr Murat Çepni. Here you go, Mr. Chepni.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0053par0077	Thank you, Mayor. The General Assembly and our valued people, yes, there were two presentations here yesterday. I want to go through with them by saying a few things, because the budgets of all ministries, like the ones that actually complement each other, want capital, and the ministries are working hard to get them out. The minister said: "If we don't invest in this population and energy that poisons nature, our lamps will be shut down for three days, five days, ten days. He made a statement, but in his statements, there was not a sentence on the fields that had been destroyed, there was no sentence on the water that had been destroyed. If we did this, the forest would be lost, so much water would be lost. If there was no sentence, there was no profit, and there was no pattern that they would build on it. Again, the thermal plant offered us as an investment, and on the one hand, it said they were aiming to eliminate the use of fossil fuels in the same sentence, a presentation filled with such inconsistency. The nuclear plant, its poison, its betrayal, its crime, its promise to us here. Again, the other Minister said that in the presentation -- you think it comes from a different world, not from another country, but from another world -- it opens the way for unionisation. Yeah, it's a crime to be unionized in Turkey today, and workers are being fired for being unionized. The workers of the Baldur Suspension of Meadowova, the PTT workers in Corrum, the metal, the workers and so on... we are now faced with a painting like this. Dear friends, yesterday in Samsun, one of our people committed suicide by saying: "Work and food." This suicide wasn't the first and last, in which hundreds of people had to find death under the rule of the AKP-MHP coalition, but under the rule of the palace coalition, and I regret to say so. In Istanbul, the tradesman went bankrupt and became unable to pay the loans he received, chose to commit suicide because he could not pay the loans he received. Yes, this power is an enemy to the people, an enemy to nature, a laborer, an enemy to the tradesman. So what's real isn't the dust pink paintings that are presented here, but the real picture that people live in every day. Look, dear friends, in 2002, a total of 6.6 billion loans were used under housing, transportation, and needs loans, and in 2019 the ratio increased to 618.5 billion TL, and think of the difference, dear friends. In just 2020, 739,756 people failed to pay their loans until September. Again, in 2002, he owed $6.6 billion in debt per household. This ratio rises to 618.5 billion in 2019, up to 836.8 billion in September in 2020; see the difference. In the last year, the number of loanors has increased to 2,268 thousand, dear friends. So, we're going to look at the Black Sea in this table, which is the East Black Sea Development Project. This project is actually a project to finish the East Black Sea, to attract capital from the East Black Sea. What's this project doing? He's doing two things: one is chasing the Black Sea into Arab tourism, chasing Arab capital, chasing Qatar capital, building construction projects for it. Another is Project Green Road, which is the Green Road Project, which is being held up despite being stopped by the State Department. What's in this? There's restaurants, there's gas stations, there's gas stations, there's whatever you're looking for, but it's just the beginning, there's 38 projects right now. So, what's next? DOCAP did the cost-priced Tea Market Project in Rize. Again, instead of supporting the teamaker, instead of revising the tea fields -- look where he's pouring the money -- instead of improving the technology of the tea gardens, what he's doing is he's doing exactly what he's doing instead of spending money on companies. In 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019, a total of 309 million dollars were transferred to these companies, such as the AKP in all these years, keeping their companies in the area warm, keeping their pockets warm. Now, in these circumstances, one of Rize's greatest sources is tea, one of the largest sources in the Black Sea is tea and nuts. Again, you know, they tendered the nut to the Italian Ferrero company, they went after it. It also hurts every year, so the AKP bureaucrats can't sell the tea, and they're doing their best not to sell the tea. He can't sell his tea so private companies can increase market domination, increase their profits, maybe give him an excuse to sell CHIKUR. Now, the same goes for Iconia. So, you know, there's a development project in Iconya. It is one of the 25 river basins in Turkey, which is one of the largest droughts in Turkey, where some 350 sinkholes have formed. Here, one third of Turkey's underground waters are being destroyed in the Plains of Iconium, where underground waters are completely out of control. So, what does power do? This is what the government does: build airports, build third bridges, build Osmangazi Bridges, and transfer money to the five-alarm gang; that's exactly what it does.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0054par0087	5 plus 2.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0053par0088	Yes, this project, even the third-rate budget, is the runt budget of an unrecognizable company, and each budget is essentially the poverty of the public, the unemployment of the people. There's no such thing as a bad production here, there's no mistake here, there's a pure choice here; there's a preference for capital, rants and profits. So we don't call out to AKP power from here, we call out directly to our people: this is the struggle of those who steal your sweat with sweat; this is the struggle of lies and truth; this is the struggle of fascism and freedom; this is the struggle of greenness against decay, dear friends. Once again, we, the People's Democratic Party, raise the fight for budgets and public power for the people. Let us all work together, with courage and determination, to destroy this order of lies and plunder, and the reign of these sinners. I say we have the power, we have the power of the people, we can all get rid of this persecution and fascism together. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0055par0092	Dilşat Canbaz Kaya is next in line. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0056par0095	Mr. President, I send my love and respect to our fellow lawmakers and our dear people, who are watching us at the beginning of their screens; first, our co-Chairs in prisons, Figen Yüksekdağ, Selahattin Demirtaş, and all our fellow prisoners. [[Applause from HDP rows]] I've made a commitment to the Industrial and Technology budget. First of all, we remember Minister of Industry and Technology Mustafa Varank, a bag of legislation that encouraged workers to work unsafely, the workers' response, after the opposition stood back, as he served to the boss's organizations. We want to see the business world with us again. I'd like to say that all anti-employee and anti-employee law offers are a reflection of a management policy based on the interests of the bosses. This is the public confession of the workers, who no longer see the democratic problems of the people, except the profits of the bosses who put the welfare of the poor behind their backs. Members of parliament, the government has made many Turkish Cypriots and thousands of scientists unemployed and unable to continue their scientific activities after July 20, 2016. Many scientists have either had to work at very low wages in jobs outside their field or were forced to emigrate abroad. Anti-democratic, nationalist, racist political climate and relentless detention, terror of arrest, and scientists who will do valuable work in our geography -- especially young scientists -- are forced to migrate abroad every day more and more. According to the German government's immigration report 2019, Turkey's number of high-quality labour force, labour migration and asylums continues to increase. 990 people from Turkey received the Blue Card, while 10,784 applied for asylum. According to statistics, the number of migrations from Turkey to Germany was 51,610 people with an increase of 8.8 per cent compared to 2018. This is only the data from Germany, and the Turkish-based migration to EU countries is larger. The AKP's government has appointed its party members to the rectories following a militant line that began in 2016. Former AKP MPs were quickly made chancellor, dean. This partyist attitude in the Academy and science is a major obstacle to the development of scientific thinking and work. As you well know, many scientists, known as peace academics, were first targeted for using freedoms of opinion and expression, then expelled, and many lawsuits were filed against them. At the time, many academics were acquitted of these cases. Therefore, academics must be extradited immediately. Turkey is making a more defensive industrial investment in defence and technology investments. Investments in science and technology must be planned to solve the basic problems and expectations of the public. Look, in the pandemic process, many students and teachers are unable to access telephones, Internet, tablet, computer communication tools, so they can't stay away from teaching or access a qualified teaching program. Turkey is a country that imports technology. And because a lot of technological things are indexed to dollars, that's why the majority of the people in our country are having major economic problems. While investing in science and technology, the Ministry of Industry and Technology should not ignore the basic needs and expectations of the public. The situation of Turkey's economy: Today, we are also in a massive decline in technology and industry. The government's budget offer is far from a solution to this crisis in favour of the workers. Concerns that the government has taken as a reference to the budget are not solving the basic economic problems of the public. Such economic policy and budget distribution cannot be expected to solve the basic needs and demands of the public. We're looking at another budget proposal that ignores workers, women, students, tradesmen, and doesn't see the ecological crisis. This offer offers nothing more than last year or the years before. Such a budget offer to the workers and the public, which is central to the needs of a handful of investors who are exploiting workers to the last penny and sustaining them, has nothing to offer. This budget offer does not see unemployed college graduates who can't pay off their KYK debt, peasants who have to sell their tractors that they drive their land, millions of workers who are forced to live on minimum wage. This budget does not see people we meet more every day, taking food out of the garbage. This budget does not see the poor who hang themselves because they can't get along, who burn themselves. Dear friends, if you go to any neighborhood market at the end of Sunday afternoon, you'll be dealing with people who want to buy the latest products cheaper in the market. This budget is not the budget of those who have to collect or get the remnants at the local market for less. In Turkey, poverty has now become common. The AKP and the MHP's power are self-inflicted through this continued poverty. The bread they hang on hangers, the teas they throw to the people, the peasant they brush in the street; the worker they have beaten to the police, the gendarme, reveals the true face of this exploitation alliance. The unfair division of the economy makes the poor more poor and the rich richer every day. This understanding of governance, called capitalism, is gradually destroying the future of humanity and the future of nature, and Turkey's economics operates all its issues to the end. What the president perceives as overrated is a period when real poor people burn themselves in front of public buildings. In a country where millions of poor people have to live on minimum wage, we can't bring bread to our home. Sadly, it is the power that tells us that the economy is on its way, not the service driver's servant. The workers, young people, unborn children of this geography don't have to pay the bill for anything. Every day the bosses and their representatives in power intend to pay the bill for their economic and political crisis to the public and the workers. What the AKP's president described as a prescription for the pain in the past few weeks gives away plans to covet the last penny left in the public pocket. We ask, "Is this people a share in your profits, so that they may share in your losses?" (APPLAUSE) If the pain is to be written by someone or someone, a handful of bosses who profited by power and its support must first write this prescription to themselves and pay the bill for the crisis themselves. Today, workers who are fighting for their rights in many parts of our geography resist because they will receive less than 1 percent of the millions, as you call them. It is the government's responsibility to protect the rights of millions of workers whose rights have been seized and faced with insecurity. I'd like to count a number of workers' resistance: PTT workers, Sinbo workers, Bimeks workers, Atlasglobal workers. Today is his fourth day, we discuss the budget, we discuss the ministries. At the end of each ministry, there is a beauty, a reception, a beautiful ministry, a beautiful budget, a wonderful budget. We say that today, as we discuss these budgets, eight Atlasglobal workers were taken into custody by police yesterday. Well, whose budget is this? I'm not saying much, but I'd like to make a statement made by the President yesterday. He says this country has reached a very good point in the field of rights and freedoms for 18 years. For the democracy, freedom and rights point you've come to, I'd like to say that in terms of democracy, yes, you're in a very good place, you're groundbreaking! Women are killed every day in your freedom and democracy. In your freedom and democracy, Kurds are still being thrown out of helicopters. Youths are taken into custody in your freedom and democracy, workers are taken into custody, journalists are arrested, and today, the MPs are preparing a trial for speaking from this bench, politicians are arrested. Yes, that's the step in the field of freedom, in the field of democracy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We'd like to remind you again that in this coming democracy, we don't accept this budget.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0057par0114	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0058par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you and the Grand General Assembly, sir. Mr. President, members of the law, let the gendarmes, Captain Yasin Kurt, and Sergeant Oguzhan Anar. May God bless their places, so that they will be.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0059par0120	Amen.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0058par0121	I'm sorry for the loss of our nation's family. I'm always saying, a congressman of ours just told me, the martyr won't be the last. Of course, we're all prepared to drink the testimony, including the 584 MPs here, in case something happens to our country's integrity, our independence, our flag, our reputation in the region, our rights and interests in the region, including the blue country, but, of course, we're all willing to face these sufferings, the sufferings that shouldn't be the cause of some of the wrong policies of the government. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I say on every occasion - is not a condolence tent. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a parliament with the strength and power to take all measures, if possible, so that a Mehmet-chik (not-to-be-bleed) of course) should not be compromised. In the past, our House has shown examples of this. I, for example, shall I say that we are in Syria, east of Fırat, which I said several times in parliament -- who controls geography east of Fırat? The United States of America and the P.D. judge. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One minute... Of Firat, of Firat, of Firat, of Firat, of Firat, of
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0060par0127	Wait a minute... Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0058par0129	These bureaucrats have a grudge against me. And I'm starting to think they deliberately opened my microphone late. Mr. President, who is west of Fırat? There's Russia and Syrian Central Administration. What are we doing there? I won't say it, I know it will be abused. Our Mehmet-chik is being martyred there, of course we'd all be martyrs for the country, but I think there's been a mistake in Turkey's Syrian policy. Even so, I find it necessary to give a warning to the government. Mr. President, on the other hand, there's a Hellal Accreditation Agency in the budget we discussed today. Friends have mentioned that the forbidden is not just to consume some foods that Islam forbids. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] For example, the right of a servant is forbidden, the right to squander public money is forbidden, the taking of state property is forbidden, the absence of trust in the affairs of state is forbidden, the provision of state money is forbidden, the provision of state money is forbidden, the right of a state is forbidden, the right of an orphan is forbidden, the right of an orphan is forbidden, the unlawful is forbidden, the unlawful is forbidden, the state-force is forbidden, and the rich of politics is forbidden, Mr. President. On this occasion, Mr Murat Çepni has just said: "This power is an enemy to the people and to the workers." I don't agree with that because this power is an enemy to everyone who isn't. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0061par0137	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0062par0138	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0061par0140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, at the beginning of my words, I bless our saints Mehmet, who have been martyrs of religion and state, country and nation's defences in the region of Rafiayn, and ask for immediate healing for the wounded. Yesterday was a truly important day of national pride for our nation. The liberation of the land of Azerbaijan after thirty years, the freedom of the land occupied by Armenia, and the presence of Mr. President with the state of the Republic of Turkey and our nation on December 10th, gave rise to a thrill, a thrill, a righteous pride. In this respect, under the leadership of our commander-in-chief, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, it is a historic event that our Mehmet-duke really eliminates any threat to our national security both outside and inside. In Syria, Iraq, indeed, the destruction of the terror state is a national security requirement. Therefore, any threat to the future of 83 million of our terrorists, both inside and out, has surely been eliminated and eliminated. In this framework, it has been appreciated and seen by the world how the drones and the SIHA, showing Turkey's technological superiority and development, have benefited greatly from the use of the Azerbaijan army. Yes, it's a national defence industry that we've raised from 20 percent to 70 percent. However, we're not just in a technological state of mind about this. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] At the same time, in a short period of 14 days, we are equipped and capable of designing, designing, and manufacturing our needed ventilator, a place where we can build hospitals with 1,008 beds in 45 days, where each room can be converted into intensive care. So we're going to leave the people who make different interpretations of certain religious references under their own external logic to each other, but let everyone know that the most sacred, the politics of lies and slander is the politics of lies and slander. I invite everyone to the truth and reality, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0063par0146	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0064par0147	He accused me of clearly lying, slandering politics.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0063par0148	I said Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0064par0149	Okay.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0063par0150	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0065par0152	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, two of our soldiers were killed and eight of our soldiers were injured in a traitorous attack by PKK terror organization at the checkpoint of our security forces in Operation Peace Fountain area. I ask God's mercy on our martyrs, his condolences on his relatives, and the immediate healing of our wounded. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Mr. President, the Republic of Turkey is a border north of Syria -- which corresponds to 911 kilometers -- Turkey's security, Operation Peace Fountain for peace and peace of the region, the Firat Shield, the olive branch, and these are both major operations that have contributed to the peace of the region as well as to the security of Turkey. Therefore, we all need to understand that these challenges were fought as a matter of a national policy and a matter of beka of the Republic of Turkey, but without purpose, but without nature, without nature, without doubt, without shadow and without shadow. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0066par0156	Mr. Altay, lying is forbidden to politics.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0067par0157	No, the politics of lying and slander...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0066par0158	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0067par0159	On the stand or here, sir?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0066par0160	Here, I'll give it to you from there.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0067par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. The Republican People's Party doesn't lie, it's behind what they say. I'd like to give you a simplistic example: on the 7th of the month, our President-General, on the 8th of the month, I said that the father of Beşiktas was paid 121 lira, and then it went up to $192 in four years. The AK PARTI Group shouted, "I am lying. I have shown the document. Fuat Oktay will examine it and return to you. He said, "It has been five days, and he has not returned. It is a shame to give an ambulance driver $7 as an additional performance fee, $24 to a sister, $32 to a doctor; I said it would not be a state! You said it was a lie. You said it was a lie. We showed you a document, you shut up. Mr. President said he and we were being bugged; he showed us the address. There's no need to address the prosecutor, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan's own statement which says: "O Kılıçdaroğlu, I am listening to your breath, I know it is Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan who says, Gene, when the Minister of Transport of the period is asked this question, what if you have nothing to fear? If you have nothing to be afraid of, what do you need to rest for? So there are no lies in us, there are no lies in us. But I would like to take this opportunity to say that at the point of lying, we have a lot to say to the AK PARTY administration, and now that I'm done, I'm not saying them, when the time comes, but it's time to count health workers as martyrs when we're talking and not let them pass through. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0068par0169	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0069par0170	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0070par0171	Dear Oluç...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0068par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, today we're going to discuss these issues throughout the day, and I want to make a few brief points, and Mr. Akbasoglu is very excited to talk about it. Now, the more the military testing complex develops in a country, the more it develops. A claim called "the country" is never acceptable, nor is it a proven claim. Because as your military testing complex develops, you don't actually develop the technology you need to develop in other areas, you don't invest. Look, I'm going to talk about 2 areas, and 2 of them are areas that point to your very current problems today. One is education. We experienced problems in the field of education again because of pandemics, in the context of education and technology. There are 19 million students and teachers in Turkey on the matter of remote education. A million people tried to connect, the EBA collapsed. So you haven't developed your technology, and you haven't made any investments in the development of that technology. Second, it's a medical facility. Again, I'm going to say pandemic. There was no investment in the mechanical ventilator area, for example. Suddenly, his pandemic came out, and in the midst of problems in intensive care, we began to wonder, "What are we going to do? Why? Because, as a mindset, no policy has been developed on making such investments in healthcare. But let's make a tank, make a cannon, build a missile, build a rocket, develop the technology of death. But let's develop the technology of life. This has not been looked at with a mindset called life. Now, I'm going to make one more point, and we'll continue to discuss it in the day. I don't have much time, so I can't take it long. It's a matter of domestic and national cars.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0071par0180	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0068par0181	Thank you. Now, I'm an engineer, and I'm very excited about making a domestic and national car. I'm never far from something like this. When the Anadol was made, we were all very excited about how domestic and national it was in Turkey. Now, look, the CEO of TOGG says we're meeting with Bosch for the electric engine of the vehicle. We're interviewing six Chinese-sized companies for batteries. We've chosen the German engineering company EDAG. Myra is one of our partners in the chassis, especially in mechanical evenings, where she was accepted in England. We've agreed with the Italians to design. We're building a domestic and national car. It doesn't work like that, you know. I'm not saying this because it's wrong. You don't sell this work with domestic and national nonsense; we make cars, make cars, let them run around the streets, but don't use it for political gain, because we all know it's not local and national. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0072par0186	Mr. Akbasoglu, I'd appreciate it if you'd use your statements to continue our agenda. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0073par0189	Thank you very much. Time is short, many examples can be given, but first, it's the bear with the wound. I said, "The greatest illicit is the politics of lies and slander, one."
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0074par0191	Yeah, yeah, we're in.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0073par0192	Secondly, the CHP leader who went to Ashliye, he kept the public busy, didn't he? Then, the journalist who reported it apologized to Mr. President. Then who explained where this was staged? CHP presidential candidate Muharrem Ence said: "The headquarters of lying, slander and conspiracy is the CHP headquarters." So answer him. In this regard, the mentality that prevents the revolutionary automobile will not be able to touch the TOGG, with Allah's permission, and it will be assigned to our nation by getting off the tape in 2022. However, I would also like to point out that thousands of people are actually supported by our Ministry of Industry, our Ministry of Education, our Ministry of National Education, our government, in different areas, at the point of the excavator, at the local vaccine, about medicine, at the R-D point, with the DEEYAPs, with the TEKNOFESTs, with the doctorates and with the master's studies. With industry, there is a tremendous study of the development of universities, scientific centers. By ignoring all of this, trying to move these things to a different point is missing the truth. He says our duty is to reveal the truth, and I pay my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0075par0195	Well, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0076par0196	People are starving!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0077par0197	Sir, I offer my pleasure to your grace, and the credit is yours.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0075par0198	Gentlemen... here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0077par0199	For one thing, I don't find it right: there's no such thing as an AK PARTY doing the right thing all the time. I'll take the credit, but...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0078par0200	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0075par0201	Mr. Oluç, let's get on with our program, and then...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0077par0202	But, Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0075par0203	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0077par0205	Now, there's a lot to say to Mr. President, and I even have a note that says...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0079par0206	I had something to say. I didn't say it.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0077par0207	Yes, there is, there's no end to it. About the lie -- and I'll give it to you in a little while -- and I'll tell you this: I repeat, God damn him who's rich in politics, damn him, damn him.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0080par0210	Amen.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0077par0211	Secondly, people can lie, but the government doesn't. For seven months, the state has been lying to the nation about the fight against Covid-19, and the EC PARTY government is responsible for that. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0080par0214	Dear Oluç...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0081par0216	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0080par0217	Mr. Oluç, it'll be on the agenda...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0081par0218	I'll tell you something about the agenda. I mean, Mr. Akbasoglu objected again. Look, I want to say something in numbers, to tell you my problem: I'm saying that investments are inadequate, I'm not saying it's wrong, it's inadequate. Look, the Volkswagen -- I'm just talking about one company -- is worth more than $15 billion. According to Turkey's TÜİK figures, the amount of spending in this area is $8 billion. Yeah, I'm talking about a firm. Look at the universities; the annual funding of MIT (U.S.) in the United States is $10 billion; one of the most important universities in Turkey is the annual grant from the central budget of ODTU (U.S.) -- we are all raising our hands and downloading our hands together -- 653 million lira. One of them is $10 billion... which is what I'm talking about, so if there's going to be investments, I want research, development, and that's for healthcare and education, or I'm not objecting to what's being done. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0082par0223	Well, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0083par0224	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0084par0225	Our speaker is ready, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0085par0226	Mr. President, this has gone on long enough, really.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0086par0227	We think it's enough.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0087par0228	Mr. Akbasoglu, I think we've had a lot of this discussion.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0088par0229	Mr. President, let's...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0087par0230	I'll tell you one thing for all of you: I hope that our work will cause the thief, the cheeky, the separatist to stop breathing.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0088par0232	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0087par0233	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0088par0235	Mr. President, look, I'm only pledging because I'm in a defensive position to respond to criticisms, incorrect approaches.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0089par0236	It means what we're saying isn't true.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0088par0237	So there's nothing more natural than that. What I'm saying is, look, let me make this very clear: Turkey is really making great progress in everything. We can't accept any of the approaches expressed earlier, we've already made statements about this. Mr. Fuat, our Vice President -- here in the presidential budget and here in closing -- will surely answer for this matter. And there's no problem with that. Thus, Turkey is determined to move towards its goals as a fully independent Turkey, which cuts its own belly, and in this regard, technology, industry, science is indeed making great progress. Everyone, please be seated. With the merger of state-nationality, the future belongs to Turkey, our nation, I salute you all. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] 1) Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Trade Ministry 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Competitive Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Helal Accreditation Agency 2019 Central Management Final Account == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account EPISODE TO PRODUCTION AND PRODUCTION OF LITTLE AND DEAD EMPLOYMENTS [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the Development and Support Administration of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2021 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Standards Institute Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent and Brand Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Patent and brand institution 2019 Central Management Final Account ISBN 0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0! [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management 2019 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Space Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Space Agency Final Account for Central Management 2019
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0090par0289	Now it belongs to Aykut Erdoğdu on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0091par0292	Mr. President, we're discussing the budget of our state of the Republic of Turkey in 2021. During these budget talks, I would like to share with you the five major risks that concern Turkey's economy closely. If these five major risks happen, the budget we've worked so hard on will mean nothing, no income, no debt projections, we're not going to be able to make it. Dear friends, the first huge risk ahead is the budget deficit. Look, in 2019, we had a 123 billion-dollar budget deficit. But that number isn't real, because even though the Federal Reserve has taken 120 billion from what we call the reserve money, this huge budget deficit has been cut off. The first ten months of the year 2020 took place. As of right now, we have a $145 billion budget deficit, but our budget deficit isn't real because we owe 256 billion. Normally, we have to borrow as much as we can. You're predicting a $245 billion budget deficit next year. Dear friends, there's no way you can get it right. As of last year, this nation has paid all the taxes you call it, despite the pandemic, she's lost her life and paid for it, our revenues have come true. And our expense projections were almost done because even though it was pandemic, this citizen was given nothing. Well, guys, in 2019, there were 1.3 quadrillion total government loans, and in 2020 there were 1.9 quadrillion, 600 billion dollars in between. You say the budget deficit is 145 billion, there are 600 billion differences. Let's say it's due to a certain amount of courtship. So, where did the money go, dear friends? Because you've sunk the country through the asset fund and public banks. This money goes to black holes. It goes to these black holes that we can't calculate, that we can't see, that you don't show. So, what happens next year? No more lives, no more taxes, no more extra taxes. Citizens are dying, businesses are dying. You have to, you have to, you have to owe more. The more you owe, the more the interest will go up. 15 percent today, I'm telling you, there's no way it's going to stop there, it's going to exceed 20 per cent; this state has to be in debt over 20 per cent when there's half a point interest in the world. What happens if the government borrows money? If the state borrows money, the interest will go up, the recession will go up more, unemployment will go up, we'll get pressure from demand, we'll already have a lot of money, we'll have a cost inflation, it'll be much worse. What's the second big risk, precious lawmakers? Cari's open. Look, we used to keep the deal open and grow up, and today, we're cutting it short when we're shrinking. We're in need of 70 cents. The current number was announced today. We're 33 billion years short. Cari, what's going on? It's an external debt. We have $420 billion in external debt today. We're one of the first five countries to have the highest debt to the world's national income. Guys, it's a big risk. And where would we cover this current deficit and the savings of the foreign debt, the capital and interest payments? From the Federal Reserves. We were counting on that reservation, weren't we? We're supposed to have a net reserve, at least as much as our short-term foreign debt, which is preferable. That's $180 billion. So, what's in the Federal Reserve vault, guys? The day can change, near minus 60 billion dollars, and clearly the inside of the Central Bank has been emptied. What does that mean? That means we're on the verge of an external payment crisis, friends, which means this country is facing a very dangerous situation. Dear friends, the third biggest risk in this country is banking. Look, as of last year, we have 2.6 quadrillion credits. What happened when we came this year? 3.6 quadrillion, up 40 percent, up 40 percent despite this crisis. Why? Because Erdogan and his son-in-law said, "Let the country grow up and look good." If they were that simple, the whole world would do it. Give me the loan... what happened? He's gone, he's got a cell phone; he's gone, he's got a citizen, he's got a car; he's gone, he's got a citizen, he's got a dwelling. What exploded? It's open with inflation. What did he blow up? He blew it dry with interest, didn't he? As we arrived today, the Central Bank has been evacuated. The banking industry, with its active rasio, you beat these banks into these loans. From what interest did the public use the loans specifically? Seven percent, eight percent. What's the interest today? 15 percent Central Bank interest, 20% on credit. What happens tomorrow? It'll be 30%. By 8 percent, you will borrow from the public bank and tomorrow you will return the same money to the public bank at 30 per cent, which means the banks will sink. There's no such thing, most of them public banks. What do you think of today's bankrupt loan rate in banking? Four and a half. It's all fake, just like it's all fake. The minimum, with the best calculations, is 15%. There's 3.6 quadrillion; you say there's 150 billion sinks; there's at least 500, 600 billion sinks, 70-80 billion dollars. If this crisis continues tomorrow, it will rise to 20 percent, 100 billion dollars. What are you going to say to us, "Let the banks sink"? You can't, you're gonna save those banks, we all know what you're doing. Besides, banking is the heart of this economy. What about $100 billion? The Istanbul approach, the Anatolian approach, the Eskişehir approach, you'll approach the citizens in some way. The Treasury will have to take over these loans, and most of the bankrupt loans are guaranteed by the KGF... and you guarantee the KGF 25 billion and 250 billion. What is it? 5 per cent goes down. The loans are all in the KGF anyway. 100 billion dollars will be coming at you, 100 billion dollars will come if you don't take precautions. Friends, the fourth big risk is counterfeiting statistics in the economy. You call inflation 14.3 per cent, not friends, AK PARTY MPs, not. Look, they're tricking you trying to trick us. Imagine that you're a doctor, you're going to treat a patient; you're going to measure his sugar; you're going to get 280; they're going to call you 120; you're going to measure the blood pressure; you're going to get 18, they're going to call you 11, can you do that right? Please don't let yourself be deceived. Just think, unemployment 12.7, for God's sake, look at the messages on your phone, look around, is unemployment 12.7 in this country? It's 30 percent unemployment now, and no layoffs. Dear friends, there are 6.7 growths. Oh, God, fear God, 203 billion dollars in revenues went down to 197 billion dollars in growth at the time you called it. Moreover, the banks have grown. If BDDK floats banks' bankrupt loans, of course it looks like they've grown; who are you cheating on? But you can't fool one thing, economic players, especially foreigners, don't fall for it. Your interest is 15 percent - much higher - you can't keep your course at 7.80, and you can't keep it when you're taking the Minister of Justice with you. The president of the Central Bank and the new Minister of Finance are trying, but I don't think it will, because you have a structural disorder. We're dealing with a pandemic, a plague of infectious disease, friends, which increases all these risks by impact. Tell the truth, for God's sake, no one gets hurt directly. Look, you raised the number of cases 500,000 a day. Does that suit the state of the Republic of Turkey? You're here, we're going to get the vaccine... where the vaccine is, where the money is. All the countries have ordered, and we are waiting for a vaccine with our necks down; we have a patient; we have an old man; don't do it, don't do it. Dear friends, the risk of taking the sixth major risk in front of this country, I mean it with all my heart. The Republic of Turkey is right and correct in the eastern Mediterranean. They're waiting to bury us on our own shores, trying to make it impossible to catch fish on the banks of Izmir. We're very right here, but since you're taking a very bad foreign policy, I'm afraid in your foreign policy, we're threatened by your leader's assets, the country cannot be in danger, friends, I'm asking you not to. He shouldn't! (CHP cheers) Today they call us the CAATSA sanctions. We're a country with national independence, we have a choice. They didn't sell it to us, we had to buy the S-400, but in such a terrible relationship, we became such an incredible, unreliable country that we couldn't share our rights. Dear friends, I'll tell you the solution in a minute. Without democracy and justice, there is no solution in this country, not in its economy, not in its foreign policy. If democracy and justice have a price for you, you have to pay it. Two people came out -- and I had nothing to do with them -- actually, he told you, we're in the concordato now, and if we don't take precautions, we'll go bankrupt. They said, "You've driven us away from your party." I'm not bailing them both out, I'm just judging by the word.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0092par0300	No suspension, wrong.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0091par0301	As for the second issue, you have to fight transparency and corruption. If you don't do this, there's no chance this country's economy will recover. You have to repent of lying, first statistics, case numbers. If you lie, this country has no future. And fourth, you will follow a stable and consistent foreign policy. We need a foreign policy to protect the dignity of the honorable people of the Republic of Turkey, where we have brought the country to the republic, where we have not been threatened with our property. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0093par0306	Mr. Orhan Sumer... Here you go, Mr. Sumer.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0094par0309	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the Trade Ministry budget of 2021. I salute the General Assembly. The Ministry of Commerce, where we will discuss the 6.5 billion budget, has failed, failed, failed in this extraordinary 2020 year, and, most importantly, failed our tradesman. The cause of the ministry's failure today is not just an epidemic. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Commerce is badly managed. I'd like to give you a few examples of the missing millions from the mismanagement of the Ministry of Commerce, which should be based on the local manufacturer, while not even 10 lira to pay the trade bill. The loss is $4 billion, 172m in public tenders due to the lack of legislation and errors in tax, image and mortar exceptions provided in public tenders for international accession. High-value accounting, account, loss of $3.8 billion due to registration errors. The damage is $562 million due to miscalculations in customs doors with a do-it-yourself model. The damage is $65 million due to the lack of inventory, surveillance, collection and accounting of seed loans. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm afraid a lot of damage pens like this are in the Court's reports. However, the Trade Ministry did not support its tradesman, nor did it protect competition, and the tradesman preferred to ignore it while he was dying. Because it's easier to invest in the manufacturer, agriculture, industry, not as profitable as the concrete economy; it's easier to support a five-bit gang, to wipe out a billion-dollar tax payment in one piece, than to support a citizen. Therefore, unfortunately, for the AKP's rulings, not the tradesmen and the SMEs, but the belligerents of the palace rule are valued. We can't manage the ruling economy, they don't support the trade, the manufacturer is in trouble, the citizen is in distress. As they say, the country has a crisis, they've started drawing pink paintings. The palace never noticed the power, but our hundreds of thousands of tradesmen shut down because of the crisis that the citizen felt up to his bones. There is no crisis. Immediately after his speech, many tradesmen, business owners, committed suicide because of their debt, inflation broke the record for the past 18 years. Many of our college friends are unemployed. From March to today, almost 10,000 trades go bankrupt every month. What the Ministry of Commerce boasts about when it should be a cure for all this is the import of garbage from England for recycling. Unfortunately, the Turkish model, which imports the world's garbage in England, barley, wheat, and hay, is the work of AKP authorities. We've seen guaranteed hospitals, passenger-fly guaranteed airports, crossing bridges, but unfortunately we've never seen audience guaranteed television channels in the world. The Ministry of Commerce has not made a sound here since the government paid $300m for the Bein Sports TV channel, which unfortunately sold to foreign investors. There's injustice here, there's protection for your own ally. As a minister, I must oppose this trade. He could not say, "He did not say. " I'd like to ask you, what good is the Competition Foundation? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Secretary, valuable lawmakers, if we're going to boost trade and production, we have to reduce entry costs, increase production-based investments. When we look at the budget of 2021, some do not compromise their luxurious lives in their palaces, while the small-income citizen, the tradesman, the minimum-paying pensioner, a large percentage of society, cannot pay its rent, natural gas, electricity, water bills, or even pay its child an allowance. All sectors in our country have come to a standstill. 43 per cent of the businesses in Turkey are in the service sector, and 36 per cent are in the trade sector, while the service sector in terms of employment is 40 per cent of the total business areas. Today, millions of our workers in the service industry are out of work. Have you been on the side of our citizens in power? I'm afraid not. The Ministry of Commerce has found that there are people who receive a salary of $140,000 per month, and it is a shame to give a citizen $39.40 per day when it has been determined that subsidiary companies abroad are given $50,000 a month's rent allowance. It is not the state's policy to disrupt the public's budget while organizing the palace's budget. They're leading our country into a major economic crisis that's not clear where it's being thrown away with a sense of righteousness and a sense of power. The budget of 2021 is generally free from public, transparency, income distribution justice, even though it pleases its supporters, brokers, court cabinets, Qatar partners. This budget says that the citizen has a fire in his pocket, a hole in his belt, a hump on his back, a conscience, wishing that your power should be his last budget, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0095par0319	It belongs to Ismet Tokdemir. Here you go, Mr. Tokdemir.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0096par0322	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my Republican People's Party group regarding the Competitive Association budget. I salute our following citizens and your grand delegation. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The basic principle based on the market economy is the assumption that economic relations are competitive. Its job is to prevent competitive, disruptive, restrictive agreements, decisions and practices and attempts to control the market from abusing these sovereigntys. As a matter of fact, the Competitive Association is the authority to prevent powerful and sovereigns from exploiting the weak by agreeing amongst themselves. Competition institutions exist all over the world and are extremely important institutions. The most important thing about competition is that it's independent. At the moment, all members of the institution have been appointed by the President, thus making the members of the institution completely political, completely independent and dysfunctional. With the latest amendment, the institution has been authorized for structural measures. In this way, the order that can interfere with companies and operate in favour of non-compulsive companies will become even more obvious. In this arbitrary scheme created by administrative fine sanctions imposed by the institution, power has created balances in its own favour. This threat has left no balance in the market. While the councils in Turkey have lost their autonomy, the Competition Association, especially media and trade, has watched large-scale monologues on the market for years. Doesn't the Competitiveness Agency see the singularity in the press in particular? Newspapers and televisions produced by three or five conglomerates, which are related to each other, feeding from the same pool, have created the largest monopoly in Turkey. As our president-in-chief stated, the State is being harmed by the Press Administrator. Look, there are newspapers that don't have circulation, nobody knows his name, but he's sold 50 grand, and he's getting paid by the press ad agency over 50 grand. Are there any investigations, any investigations? Is there a competition in Turkey now? Five contractors get all the public contracts. There are cartels in the press. The bosses of these companies are also the heads of the press. He's in complete control. Are these companies being audited? It's never been audited. Are there any investigations? It's never done. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Those who say that there is not enough resources to control the epidemic, to compensate for the economic and social effects of the epidemic, are making sure that they pay for projects that are guaranteed to transition or patients today. The government, which does not pay for the private sector's VAT in time, or does not pay for the biomedical sector's dues or is forced to pay for its share of discounts, has opened and paid for guaranteed projects to the end, disrupting the competition. Dear lawmakers, all economic recovery efforts or reforms today have been set up on foreign investments. Even attempts at law reform are aimed at correcting the foreign investor's negative perception of our country. We have to ensure the independence of the Competition Foundation, which has a very important place for the external expansion of the Turkish economy and boosting the competitiveness of Turkish industry. In a single government, such institutions can never be independent, transparent, and manageable. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, as with ministers and bureaucrats, the president of the Competition Association and its members look into the President's eyes and mouth, who has appointed themselves to this post. It is imperative that the Competitiveness Foundation, which has unlimited control and punishment powers, is independent. As I complete my words, I would like to address him as a son of Hatay, the city of civilizations, whose heart beats with the love of country and nation, which has reached a 125 percent increase in our Hatay in recent days. What is the cause of this increase? My fellow Hatays are very concerned about their rise in Covid-19. Tests and filaments are inconclusive, hospitals are full of intensive care units, test results are revealed too late. Hatay must be monitored in order to prevent increased rates in our Hatay. The weekend restrictions are insufficient. In order to avoid further casualties, our countrymen should be put into full quarantine for at least two weeks without being economically victimized. The head of everything says health, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0097par0335	It belongs to Izmir MP Mahir Polat (Izmir MP). Here you go, Mr. Polat.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0098par0338	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. The Ministry of Commerce has a large area, big problems, no impact on solutions, I'm afraid. The Court's findings continue today from last year. There have been 14 problems with accounting and money use this year, and the Ministry has not developed anything about their solution. We're dealing with a ministry that violates the principle of unity and transparency of the treasure. I asked the Ministry again last year, and I'd like to repeat it from here. The Court asks you why you invested the rights to the Ministry's rights, not to the Ministry accounts, but to a private company account, due to the modernisation and renovation of customs you have made with the Turkish Chambers and Stock Exchanges Association. You do not answer this question the Court has asked since 2015 and correct it. I'm afraid it's obvious. We've got a lot of Rifat Citadels these days. Dear friends, the gentleman who reduced the 14-day quarantine app to ten days because of the pandemic says, as we'll see in customs, the government does what he says. I asked Minister Hanım, during the budget talks, about the problems of the customs advisors, particularly the law of the room; you did not give the room of the customs advisors, who were due to Article 4458, which was based on the 6th Amendment, until today, I asked him why you did not give them the room, and I showed him the document, Mr. Rifat Hezarcikoğlu had a intention on the customs advisors. The Ministry's response to this was to tell me the exact same thing as the interim 6th article. Mr. Secretary, anyone who earns a living as a customs consultant has memorized the temporary 6th clause for 20 years, and the answer you sent me about it was not serious. If there was continuity in the state, if you had an undersecretary there instead of the Deputy Secretary, he wouldn't have made me give that answer. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Again, customs advisers had the right to an uninterrupted test from Law No. 1615, and the right to an infinite test. You've been indexing this to three exams for 20 years, three exams. Dear friends, there are friends here who are freelance professionals, lawyers, accountants, which one of you is tested by three tests? And this is to be given back our rights... to an unlimited test... even if you can't do it, our rights need to be raised. Again, additional punishments are imposed on customs advisers for the Law of Offenses. It's actually against the law. As a result of the meeting of the Minister of the period, Hayati Printer and Customs Advisors Association, Hayati Printer Bey expressed that this would not be so, and said: "There are no two Posts from a sheep." You are now removing three pelts from a sheep. How? By writing 21/5/2020, you punish both the importer company and the customs consultant. Please, I want you to consider that, and I want you to eliminate it. You also said that during curfews, customs would work for foreign trade. Mr. Secretary, there's no regulation in the generals about the release of customs consultants and friends who work for him. This arrangement needs to be done quickly. Everyone's talking about exporters. We're talking about how exports are going to be worth $500 billion. These are good numbers, pink dreams like that. What do we have to do to accomplish all this? Turkey must use its full capacity. Is the use of capacities enough? No, we need to export the add-on product. To do that, we have to open businesses that produce high-profile products. I don't have this. Unfortunately, exporters have problems, too, and we'd like you to take care of them. For example, Russia gave Turkey incredible privileges, so you know the defence industry, the S-400. With all the privileges we know about nuclear energy in the open, Mr. Secretary, we can't lift the tomato quota, which is 200,000 tons of tomato exports. Again, exporters are entitled to their DFI purchases, they are written to the Central Bank, the Central Bank has no funds. You need to work on that, too. Again, one of the important issues is that in Far Asia, there was a formation called RCEP Τ, which will govern one third of the world's trade, including China, Japan, Korea. You have to get in touch with them quickly, and we can be their gateway to the West. If you want to withdraw investment and trade, you can declare Izmir as a free city, Dear Minister. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Again, you can't block the foreign trade deficit by blocking imports. On April 27th, you sent all imports to a red line with a healing warning. If there was an undersecretary behind you, the Secretary would have told you that you've been disrupting exports while you've been working on imports, just as you've increased the risk of infection. In short, we need to say a few words about the Hellal Accreditation Agency. An institution has been established since 2017, and its budget will exceed 30 million this year, and they've issued around 400 documents. We're paying $6 to prove our origins. When we divide this budget into a total of work, over 60,000 liras are a source per job. Dear friends, I'd like to point out that 60 thousand lira per unit... that's what I'm saying is the state of the Harmzads' budget, the Hellal Accreditation Agency. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0099par0358	The order belongs to Mr. Abdurrahman Tutdere. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0100par0361	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the GAP Regional Development Administration. I salute and cherish the General Assembly and all our fellow citizens who follow us on their screens. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, the GAP Administration was established thirty-one years ago. The purpose of the establishment was to develop all the provinces of the region in a socioeconomic sense and raise the welfare level of the people here. When we look at 18 years of AK PARTY power, it's useful to see if the Development Administration has done its job fully, if the money has been paid, if the budget has been used in its place. When we look at the Court reports, we see that the Development Administration is not doing its job. Dear friends, the GAP Administration has failed to carry out any of the 2018 projects in the 2014-2018 Action Plan, not the 2019 Action Plan. Minister, when we look at the unemployment rate of cities in the region, we see that the Development Administration has failed. According to 2019 data from the Turkish Statistical Institution, the unemployment rate in the region is 22.4 per cent, and the unemployment rate across Turkey is 13.7 per cent. There is more than 65 per cent difference between unemployment in the districts and unemployment in Turkey. Dear friends, Mr. Secretary, the development administration is now an obstacle to public service. The GAP Development Administration has been unable to update its website. Development agencies have returned to empty buildings, no longer pursuing projects, no longer pursuing the money they gave them during the AK PARTI rule. From here, all our nations are from development agencies, and the Minister expects your services. Dear friends, the Gap was the greatest project of our country and our republic. During the AK PARTY administrations, no promises were kept. Mr. President, when he was Prime Minister of the period, we will finish this project in five years in Diyarbakir. The Minister of the period said, "We will complete this project," the government said. So, in spite of the long time, have you completed these projects as power? We just talked, you said lying politics. Now, you have made the state a liar, and we will finish it in five years. You said, "But you haven't finished it." [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, why didn't you finish the Gap? No resources. You say, you squandered resources. Your minister and your economy administration, who don't care about the dollar in particular, doesn't understand the finances, and if they really did use the resources right, the Gap would be finished today. Because of your mismanagement, this nation's $128 billion of poor poverty has been wasted, vaporized, destroyed. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, do you know what would have happened in Turkey today if 128 billion dollars hadn't been wasted? Dear friends, the total cost of the Ataturk Dam, the largest dam in our country, is $4 billion. If this 128 billion hadn't been wasted, there would have been 32 Ataturk Dams today, 32 Ataturk Dams. If it weren't for your incompetence, this 128 billion dollars would have finished four GAP projects. (CHP) Here you have squandered people's money and these projects have not been completed due to lack of resources. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the budget, there's a $245 billion deficit in the budget, there's $179 billion interest costs. You know what the budget says when we look at this budget, guys? He says that inflation will increase unemployment. I'm going to break up the income distribution, he says. I will increase the suffering of the past, he says. I'm going to increase dependency on the outside. He says I'm not going to do anything in education, in health, in technology. I'm going to put Turkey back. You know what this budget says, fellas? This budget says I can't save your power either.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0101par0375	Bravo!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0100par0376	Dear friends, your budget, your interest budget, your budget is the budget that crushes the poor, your budget is the budget that protects the rich and happy minority; your budget, the budget that robs the state, is the budget of waste and destruction; your budget, the budget, the budget that increases unemployment, the budget that corrupts justice in the distribution of revenues, the budget that increases poverty and poverty. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In the words of our president-in-chief, your budget is the budget of the embezzlers. (HPP) We'll make the budget, which, hopefully, puts the public above the people in the power of the people. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0102par0381	The order belongs to Mr. Bedri Serter.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0103par0382	Mr. President, we don't have an industrial minister. Where has he been for a long time?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0104par0383	The future, the future, went to the bathroom.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0103par0384	I mean, he's been gone a long time.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0105par0385	Not for an hour, not for an hour.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0106par0386	Here you go, Mr. Serker.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0107par0388	Thank you. I'm aware that we're going to talk to the Minister once every three hundred and sixty-five days, not today, not again. The Minister should be here, I'll speak to the Minister, please come here, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget for the President of Small and Medium Enterprises Development and Support Management. I salute the High Council. We have two martyrs, we have a burning lung. My Engin President sang very well. Let it be the last time. It's hard to raise and raise children, but it's easy to lose. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I hope no one knows the meaning of the SME. Companies with 250 employees and 125m euros at the most are called COBI enterprises. About 99 per cent of the 3.9 million enterprises established in Turkey are KOBI. I will explain to you how these SMEs have been dealt with at this time by the grave mistakes of power. I told you, COBIs don't have that much capital. The smallest -- I'll tell you -- is as small as a grocery store; the largest is as small as a textile workshop that employs 250 workers. THE owners of these SMEs set up their business by ruining their own assets, their children's jewelry at weddings, by borrowing money from family and relatives. THE founders of the SME have no more expectations of their government. Their happiness is that they can work with them, and they can pay their wages in return for their hard work, and they can sweat and produce them. And you know what else they care about? Taxes to the state, the SGK, the electricity and the water debt are a debt of honor to deposit in full and on time. All they want from the government is for them to run Turkey well. We are scorched in our own oil, do not cast a shadow on us, we do not ask for any more gifts. These SME businesses are people of so many lives that they don't miss the slightest mistake the government has ever made. They love their country. They are well aware of the basic principles and values of the republic, of what the great Ataturk had entrusted to the Republic of Turkey and what it had gained. In all the SMEs, you will see pictures of the great Ataturk, the great Leader. They know what is unlawful and what is lawful, and do not turn away from them. Because the smallest business, together with their families, is up to 10 people, bread, and the largest COBI is over 1,500 people, bread, so they know their earnings are lawful. BEFORE the outbreak, our COBIs faced many negativeities. The outbreak of Covid became the salt pepper of the collapse of the KOBI, and the painting became very heavy. As a matter of fact, Vice President Fuat Oktay was very clear about the painful painting that came out after the pandemic period. Between 11 March and 22 November, 86,000 businesses were closed. You know what that means? On average, 10 million people with no soup and no bread. But the government is still ignoring them and trying to save the day with treatments. Welcome, Mr. Secretary. One of these treatments was KGF loans. Three years ago, KGF loans came out, handed out 30 million, 100 million, 200 million to sign companies, as if they had distributed their father's money. Then what is the matter with them that they are not questioned? Yeah, even the Court reports didn't show those numbers. The final point of a dead-end power is that the central bank reserves reach minus 60 million. That night, the president of the Federal Reserve lost his head. Then what happened? This is very important friends. He said that the groom, the groom, the minister, God bless us. He left with his tweet. (CHEERING) No, does anyone know where the groom is? Moreover, at the point of arrival today, 3,800,000 SMEs - all of them - owe money to banks. When the loans reached 860 billion liras, when they were tracking 288,000, if a million of the loans to those sign companies were distributed to them, they would have been perfect, and you wouldn't have had any trouble. Again, from 128 billion dollars unaccounted for to whom, the sum from those who earned the money was to be supported by 1.5 million COBIs of the profit figure, so be it forbidden, and so be it! How many factories would we have saved, how many factories, how many businesses would we have built with $192 billion interest on loan sharks in England? We've got 13 million unemployed, Mr. Secretary, 13 million unemployed young people, and they had to go there. So, why are these interest payments paid for? The road, the bridge, and the money that comes with external resources for the construction of the high-speed train are given to three or five contractors, and 85 million of our people have been exploited to the bone. Just yesterday from Van... my time is up... Yes, that's enough. The COBIs say, "Come and save us." We'll come to power as soon as we can. We'll all come together.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0108par0402	Dream, dream! Dream, dream!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0107par0403	We're coming, we're coming.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0109par0404	In turn, it belongs to Ismail Atakan Üsver. Here you go, Mr. Ünver.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0110par0407	Mr. President, I have been promised the KOP Regional Development Administration budget, and I salute the General Assembly. Given the purpose of the KOP administration, the primary priority in the KOP region of Turkey, which has a fifth of its agricultural areas, is to increase the watering areas, thus increasing agricultural production. Karaman, for example, should increase the amount of watered-down land in the agricultural areas of 120,000 decrepit and 130,000 decrepit farms so that more productive agriculture can be produced in Karaman. Were you able to do that? No, you didn't. For two years, I've been asking you to support agricultural electricity by 65, 55, 45, 35, 25 percent for at least five years, as you have done in the provinces of Diyarbakir, Şanlıurfa, Mardin, Siirt, Şırnak, Batman. Then why did you set up this KOP administration? Last year at the budget talks, I told you that projects in the KOP area can't be finished, and nothing's changed this year. In this context, I'd like to talk about some projects that can't be finished in Karaman. Karaman-Conya Speed Train Line: It started in 2014 and was said to be finished by the end of 2015. Since then, it has been said next year. We have reached the end of the year 2020, but that next year, he never came. 21km Karaman Environment Road: It started in 2014, we're entering 2021, and yet, the first stage that was said to be in the service in 2016 was not available. The Transport Ministry announced that the project would be finished in 2021, in its investment file in 2019, which is impossible to finish. Karaman-Ermenek Road: Karaman Τ's Ermenek, Sarıveli, Başyayla districts have no direct territorial connection. We can reach our counties by traveling about 100km across the provinces of Konya or Mersin. This has been a 31-year shame since we became a province and in the last 18 years, when the AK PARTY was in power. In every bet, we made the road, as if it were edible. The AK PARTI boasted that it was not able to complete the road for a hundred miles in 18 years. This road is not in the Ministry of Transport's 2023 split-way target. I've asked the ministry, the date they're going to end up answering my written question motion, it's not there again. Sertavul tunnels began in 2017, which would be finished in 2021. Although it was said that Karaman could reach the sea in 45 minutes when it was finished, as of today, it will not be for much longer. It's a dream trade. Karaman Logistics Center: When it was launched in 2016, it was as if it would be launched tomorrow and all problems would be cured. According to the Ministry of Transport's budget presentation, it's still in the process of study and planning. Karaman Airport: The project is forgotten, the date for what to start and what to finish is set. When President Erdoğan gave Karaman the news of 2 million passenger-access airports in 2017, there was no shortage of AK PARTY politicians, and now, no one has a voice on the line. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Çamlıca Viyaşı: The foundation was laid in 2016, will be completed at the end of 2018 and will be Turkey's highest bridge. Now, in its place, there's just a piece of concrete that's poured out as a foundation. City stadium: Started in 2017, was to be completed in six hundred and fifty calendar days, we are about to enter 2021, the stadium is still not finished. How many calendar days has it been? You do the math. Closed gym: The tender was held on December 24, 2015; it was intended to be launched in 2017; it was still not available. Those who view themselves as the owners of these projects with people's money should now have these projects that have no chance of being finished in time. I suggest they get it finished and served as soon as possible, make sure they can, at least in this way, try to save the zewahir. (CHEERING) Or let them continue on as they know it. When we come in the first election, we'll complete it all and add new ones to it. The only regime brought by the AK PARTY and the MHP is under the administrative and economic crisis created by Covid-19, and under the hands of incompetent ministers, from his employee, from his tradesman to his industrialist, from his farmer to his pensioner, from his student to his unemployed. Let them know there's no cure for their troubles in this budget. In these matters, the ruling politicians, whose voices were not heard, took pictures from time to time with the ministers and delivered problems. They are trying to create perception. So be it; the office of power is not the office of request, my friends; it is the office of execution. You're not going to create problems, you're going to solve them. People, you're not gonna be a part of the problem by pointing your finger at the law that's not in your best interests. You've been in power for 18 years, and if there's a problem, it's you. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] I have a wish: God, let not the politician, the minister, the minister, who is forced to present no one -- and no even politician -- to offer the country's gardens or the prisons or to-do prisons to the projects and cities, which are sold by the contractor's head, and by the means of the treasury, and by the means of the citizens' money, or by the insistence to do so for a stubborn purpose. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0111par0425	Mr. Cetin Arik... Here you go, Mr. Arik.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0112par0428	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the Veteran Assembly. Again, we're looking at a robbery budget with a lot of numbers in it, but in essence, no citizens in need of bread. I'd like to give you an example of what kind of robbery, what kind of robbery is being created in our country, from a small district of Kayseri. Tomarza is a small town with a population of 22,000, and the administration is at the Justice and Development Party. A similar structure has been established in Tomarza, as our country's resources are being transferred to the five-alarm gang.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0113par0431	Tell me about Yalova.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0112par0432	The city of Tomarza started in January 2017 and paid 4 trillion liras to a company owned by the deputy mayor, called the Sema Structural. I don't know how much was paid in 2016, in 2018, in 2019, in 2020. Those who appoint millions of dollars in chocolate cans as ambassadors may laugh at these numbers. They may say, "What's wrong with that?" But we owe honor to ask for the money of the undigested orphan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My time is six minutes, and I know I'm not gonna have time to explain these bills that the city pays. About 100 bills were paid in a year, but none of them exceeded $55,000. Because if he exceeds 55 thousand liras, he'll have to go into the tender. He won't be able to say, "Here's my rose, give it to me." I'd like to give you a few examples of these bills.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0113par0435	Can you give me an example of Menemen?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0112par0436	The deputy mayor, Dadaloğlu Kayapınar neighborhood. He billed $17,500. What's on the bill? There's cement, there's briket, there's lime, there's oil, there's paint on the outside. What's not on the bill? He's building roads, no sand, no asphalt, Mr. Lawmakers. He also charged $220 for a litre of oil paint, except for VAT. Today, the best oil dye is 22 liras per liter. Mr. Deputy President of the AKP, appoint an MP of yours, we'll go together, we'll buy a box of oil paint right now. He billed 10 times that three years ago, Mr. Deputy Mayor. Again, I repaired the roof of the village mansion of the Three Lodges neighborhood. He billed 41,000 lira. What's on the bill? He's making roofs, you see, coatings, tiles, neteks, interior paint. What's not on the bill? No tiles. (CHP rows) Mr. Ibrahim, no tiles, no roofs, no tiles, no roads, no asphalts. There's paint on the side of the road, interior paint on the roof. Here's a scam, here's a bruise.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0113par0438	Tell me about Hatay Metropolitan rentals.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0112par0439	Again, Pusatlı has toiletd his neighborhood, Mr. Group Vice President, has filed a $44,000 bill to the toilet. The stuff used is the same as the roof, the same way, because there's no difference! See, three months later, the vice president couldn't get his speed back, he made another toilet for Pusatlı, but this time, there's no automatic door, and he cut the bill for 53 grand. He's billed 53,000 liras, my lawmakers. They use the same stuff to build roads, roofs, toilets, because these bills are imaginary bills. And they don't need 100 grand worth of toilets that my pusatian countrymen are gonna fuck up. (CHP rows) He stayed in the crop field, where Mehmet emmin's tractor was impounded, his cow had no straw in his barn, and the boy he had her sell her bracelet and teach, was not appointed. Ali is the engineer's son, ashamed of his father, taking his mother's kitchen allowance. Congressmans, look, just yesterday we had a 45-year-old citizen in Samsun, who committed suicide by writing work and food in his hand. People are dying, people are hungry, people are unemployed. Dear MPs, this is a $46,500 bill from the city councilman's fuel station to the municipality's LPG/fuel vehicles. There are no LPG vehicles in the municipality; there are no gas vehicles in the municipality; and this is the foreclosure sent to our Toharza farmer, whose hands are callous and whose sweats are poured into the ground; 76,000 lira Mr İbrahim Bey, 76 thousand liras. (CHP clapping in rows) Honesty drew water out of his time water field to bring home bread, 76,000 lira foreclosure. The mighty have fallen in need of the dry onions, and the poor are full from the back of the poor. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Congressmans, this is the receipt from the Tomarza Mayor's father's shop from the Light Market. The mayor bought liquid soap from his father's shop for $5,500 because we were so dirty. Mr. President, no matter how many OMOs there are, how many Tursils there are, how many Persils there are, pour into the waters of Time; you can't be washed, not 3 times, but 40 times. Because you're dirty enough to make the city pay for a 60-dollar hotel for the AKP County President! It's a shame, it's a sin, it's a shame!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0114par0444	Why don't you tell me, sir, that the CHP has sold the fairground?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0115par0445	It's time to...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0114par0446	Come in, the city's selling the fairgrounds, but you're not talking about it?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0115par0447	Congressman...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0116par0448	Shall I give you the bill?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0115par0449	Dear Meek, thank you. The order belongs to Mr. Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Bakırlıoğlu.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0117par0453	You don't know when you're selling the CHP's municipal fairground, and you don't talk.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0118par0454	Can you check the bills?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0117par0455	Check Hatay Metropolitan, he's selling the fairgrounds, Hatay Metropolitan, you don't know. You're selling the fairground, go check it out, Hatay Metropolitan. Check the rentals.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0119par0456	Congressmans, let's hear it. Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0120par0458	Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the Ministry of Industry and Technology budget of 2021. I salute the General Assembly. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The industry is undoubtedly one of the most important sectors in the economy, a truth and industry, especially the structure of manufacturing industry, the added value, the growth in industrial production, capacity usage rates and efficiency, no doubt contributing to the country's growth, employment, the rate of imports, and therefore the closure of the current deficit. So, where's our country at in industrial production? I'd like to give you some data to better understand the situation. In the early 2000s, the share of high-tech products in exports was 6.73 percent. The year is 2019, and the rate has dropped to 3.62 per cent. The weight of the commodity we exported in 2014 was an average of $1.59; 2019 a year reduced to under $1. Turkey's share of the world's goods exports is 0.98 per cent in 2019, and it has not exceeded 1.1% in years. Our competitive power is melting day by day. According to the World Economic Forum's 2019 Global Competitiveness Report, Turkey is 61st among 141 countries. In 2014, we were ranked 43, and we were ranked 2019, 61. The bottom parameters are even worse. In short, Turkey is a country that is stuck between a relatively weak national innovation system and a strong global value chain, which is struggling to produce high-value products, losing its competitiveness day by day. Dear lawmakers, the whole world is fighting a virus, and this virus has caused economic destruction in our country, as in the world. But our country is leaving the world here. Turkey entered this pandemic as the world's most fragile economy. According to a report by the United Nations Development and Analysis Department in 2018, Turkey is number 1 in the world at the Economic Fragile Index. So the country with the most fragile economy is now Turkey in the world. That's why only the Republic of Turkey in the world had to give its citizen an IBAN number. [[Applause from CHP rows]] That's why so many countries around the world have loaned billions of euros to their trades, pensions, farmers, citizens, billions of dollars, billions of euros, to our tradesman, our farmer, our citizen, billions of dollars to the state, and we've built up the debt of the citizens to the state of the SGK and tax. On the one hand, there's pandemic, there's recession, there's a crisis, and you're lending a lot of money for it, and on the other hand, I've turned to the people you lent it to, and I've reconstructed your past debts. You'd better start paying in January, February. And on the other hand, you're deleting billions of pounds of debt; it's not enough, you're giving Tunis $5 million to cover his budget deficit. Oh, yeah? The late Ismet Pasha has something good to say in these cases: Come on! This incident is showing us how far the power is from the truth. When it comes to industry, you can't talk about COBI. Because they're the flagship of the industry in our country. SMEs share in employment is 60 per cent, their share in exports is 55 per cent, and our share in manufacturing industry is 99 per cent, and our SMEs are among the most affected by this economic crisis. Dear MPs, we recently visited the SME as a party. We listened to our SMEs, and our solution proposals were discussed by our president, matter by matter. In the period of the epidemic, orders have fallen, turnovers have fallen, capacities have fallen, everything has fallen, but costs have increased. Worst of all, they couldn't account for the cost. Our COBIs have become unable to keep track of their work from following the dollar bill. Worst of all, they've lost hope. To them, the future is dark, and they no longer have the appetite to invest. We said the costs went up, and the other thing that's going up is their debt. AS of October, 862 billion liras were owed to the banks, and in October last year the number was $618 billion. Do you know how much the increase is? 40%. IN ONE year, our COBIs' debt to banks increased by 40 percent - an incredible number. The bank's deadlines for monitoring the purchases have been increased from 90 days to 150 days, and this application has been extended until June 2021. With this app, the goal is to keep the firms from going bankrupt. Other countries around the world have used similar methods, but in the winter of 2021, a huge wave of bankruptcy is expected in the world. According to 2021 and 2019, bankruptcy will increase by 35 per cent. Last year at the budget talks, we used the expression "National Winter," not "Black Winter," for 2020. It seems that 2021 was a global crisis, while Turkey, the world's most economically fragile country, and unfortunately the budget that we're discussing is far from protecting our SMEs, our tradesmen, our farmers, our workers, our citizens. With these feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0121par0472	In order to speak, it belongs to Mr Kemal Zeybek. Here you are, Mr. Zeybek.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0122par0475	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Technology in 2021. Turkey will be able to increase its importance to science and technology. Turkey's share of national income for RD spending is one per cent in Turkey, even though it is 2.4 average in EU countries. A single man's directive from the Ministry of Industry and Technology, about $12.6 billion in budgets separated by the presidency, can't support the industry's 4.1 billion budget for support from the ministry. The aims the ministry has envisioned in its Industrial Strategy Document have nothing to do with national and domestic industry, and the industrial move as a technology has nothing to do with the Ministry's incentives and support practices. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Turkey's economy is based on small and medium-sized businesses. 60 per cent of workers in industry, 70 per cent of them are employed in small businesses. It's not possible for these businesses to survive without support, Minister. (HPP rows, sounds, applause) More critically, the withdrawal of these businesses from economic activity is not to say that unemployment can exceed 50 per cent, it is to have a prophecy; it already appears, Mr. Secretary. Dear lawmakers, another name for the Ministry of Industry and Technology is the Ministry of Education. The development of our country's industry and technology is very important. The ministry's incentives are so full of legislation that it is not known which sector to provide support and incentives to which establishment. The incentive system must be simplified and assembled in a single institution as much as possible, Mr. Secretary. The Minister of Industry explains that $3.2 billion in investments and incentives have been paid interest in interest, as stated in the budget manual. The last decade's budget is worth about 8 trillion liras when we've been trading with the 2020 budget. It's not enough, it's ridiculous, to have $3.2 billion in incentive interest in the budget that's being used like this. The interest on loans used in investment incentive documents should be covered by 100 per cent of the state. The Republican People's Party will surely do so.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0123par0482	In your dreams, in your dreams.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0122par0483	For your applications, unemployment continues at 20 to 30 per cent; industry doesn't develop, investments don't develop, production doesn't increase, external dependency increases; it continues at 70 to 80 billion dollars per year. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I am the one who makes the budget, I am the one who does everything, and I am the one who says to the president, "You made this budget, and you gave it to the minister. Support the industrialist, let the investors get more credits, let the loans are extended, let the interest be paid 100 per cent, let's invest, let's get jobs, let's get jobs. You've made this country a debt by printing unrequited money. You destroyed the future of our children. By means of the Central Bank, you pumped money into the People's Bank, into the Bank of Foundations, into the Bank of Agriculture, which the country did not obtain, and for which there was no reward. Mr. Secretary, investing in the industry in this country means that the worker, the producer, the producer, is producing, the country's economy is growing healthy. This budget is not the budget of the industrialist, the shopkeeper, the worker, the farmer, the craftsman, the officer, the pensioner, the student, the rights provider. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Guys, there was an incident yesterday in my department, in Canik County. A citizen of ours committed suicide by writing about work and food. I ask for God's mercy, and I ask for patience for his kinsmen. It's so sad. I condemn this political power that has written and committed suicide in your hand, which has caused these people's suicides. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0124par0492	Yes, it's Mr. Ahmet Kaya's turn to speak. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0125par0495	With respect and respect to the General Assembly and our fellow citizens who are watching us on their screens. Dear friends, we're in budget negotiations. Citizens are calling, my dear Regent, asking what's in the budget for us? I'm afraid there's nothing you want. I have to say it. The merchants are looking, the young are calling, I'm afraid that's what I'm saying, folks. How do you want it? Look, I've looked at the budget figures, and the investment has 89.1 billion dollars, and the interest costs are $179.5 billion. So it looks like you've sunk the country into interest and debt helix. Our tradesmen have closed down their shops, our tradesmen are waiting for backup. You published a statement, told our tradesmen: shut down your shops. All of our merchants acted according to your motto, but then you didn't ask our shopkeepers how you live, how you bring bread to your home? Now, my friends, if these phrases can solve these things, then publish another sentence and say: "We'll pay the rent of our masters, we'll pay the taxes of our tradesmen. (HPP and GOOD PARTY) We're postponing loan debts from our tradesmen. You have to do this for our tradesmen, for our people. In many countries around the world, many nations -- I'm sorry to say -- do this to their citizens. The state of the Republic of Turkey is a great state, and you have to do what you have to do. But you guys don't have that problem, you don't have that problem. Look, Mr. President made a statement recently. He said: "We give money to some countries, and we give health supplies and equipment to 156 countries. " I said, "Lord, take care of our minds after we have heard these words. Guys, after this corona virus came out during the crisis, you threw away IBAN and raised money from this nation. Now with that money, you're sending $5 million to Tunisia, $3.5 million to Somalia. In the country, people are hungry, they've closed shop, they're retired, you're in so much trouble, you're sending the money of the unfinished orphan to other countries, you don't have the right, you should know that for once. If we have money, we will help, of course, if we can, we are a charitable people, but first life, then canan. Look, in this country, people collect food from garbage and try to cook. Early in the morning, a lot of our people come into the bread line to get 25 cents' worth of bread. There are suicides -- Mr. Kemal just told me -- we have people who call themselves workers and commit suicide, our tradesmen's shops are closed, it can't happen, my friends. You're also referring to 156 countries with medical benefits. Look, friends, we have children from SMA in this country, and recently their parents came, crying and weeping, and saying, "Save our children." If we have money, the government's first duty should be to save the lives of those cubs. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Again, our university hospitals -- I'm an MP for Tripoli -- the Black Sea Technical University Hospital and all the university hospitals are in trouble. - What's that, guys? Surgery gloves, 10 cents, 20 cents of surgical gloves-- we don't have surgical gloves, so bring gloves. They say, "Get gloves." That's our college hospitals. We don't have Baticon in our college hospitals, but instead they use liquid detergent, some hospitals, maybe that's why people get infected, they die. It's as if there's nothing wrong with our country, our country, we're talking about giving money to countries, we're talking about giving health care to countries. I mean really smart, really a conscience. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, look, now, again, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group has just said that politics is not done by lying, it is forbidden. Well, friends, look, there's been a political party in power in this country for years, and unfortunately, he's been lying to these people about a lot of things. Look, they said the People's Party of the Republic doesn't have an ostracized tree. There's no factory built by the People's Party of the Republic. There's no nail nailed by the People's Party of the Republic. With a lot of apologies, friends, let's see what the Republican People's Party has done to this country in a list.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0126par0508	They're stories, they're all stories, they're just stuff. What did he do? Name one.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0125par0509	Look, this 50-foot list is a list of factories, ports, industrial facilities that the Republican People's Party has built for this country. Here, read it and don't slander. Look, guys, this list, this list here, is a list of what the AKP has sold in 18 years, and I'm throwing it out. Look, friends, it's a 13-metre list, friends, it's a list of what the AKP has sold, friends.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0126par0511	People know it all, they're all stories, they're all stories, they're all stories; people know the truth.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0125par0513	Republican People's Party... look, friends, listen, please listen, this country has seen the days when it needs 70 cents, there have been days when this country needs 70 cents, but no government has bothered to sell this country's 70 cents worth of goods until the AKP's power.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0126par0515	You're not showing off. It's not a show, it's the truth, it's the show. Why don't you read what you've written, and let's see what CHP's done to this country?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0127par0516	Don't show off, don't show off. Tell me about the trustee municipalities.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0128par0517	Yes, well, thank you, Congressman.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0129par0518	I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0128par0520	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0130par0523	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yes, we've just seen a show, but what CHP has done in 80 years...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0131par0525	Here's the list. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0130par0526	...chp's mentality only comes from the bench to its place in 80 years, but the services done by the AK PARTY go from Edirne to Kars. Yeah, that's the difference.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0132par0527	Who did what you sold? Whose property did you sell? Who built those factories?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0130par0528	Dear friends, what have you done...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0132par0530	It's obvious.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0133par0531	You sold the country, now you're having a hard time.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0134par0532	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0135par0533	Mr. President, if you'd like to gather around.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0134par0534	Mr. Akbasoglu, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0135par0535	Let's get these packed up, it's disrupting my staff, and then I'll take my time, please, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0136par0536	You sold them all, all of them.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0134par0537	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0135par0538	So, sir, the difference is that what the Republican People's Party has been able to do in 80 years can only come from the bench to its own place, but what the AK PARTY has done goes from Kars. In 80 years...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0134par0539	Well, thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0137par0540	What did you do? You sold factories and built roads.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0138par0541	They have committed corruption, corruption, and nothing else, from Kars to Edirne.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0139par0542	Look, what did you do? It's 6,100 kilometers in 80 years. In 18 years of AK PARTY power, this has increased to 27,000 kilometers, and that's the difference.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0140par0544	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0139par0545	Let me show you the difference again: what's the difference in horizon? On the one hand, a will that builds the world's third largest dam, and on the other hand, a mindset that puts a tap in the fountain that we've made, which we've tasted. That's the difference, that's the horizon.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit02spe0140par0547	Congressmans, our lawmakers have a request for the airing of the hall, airing the hall. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0140par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. 1) Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Trade Ministry 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Competitive Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Helal Accreditation Agency 2019 Central Management Final Account == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account EPISODE TO PRODUCTION AND PRODUCTION OF LITTLE AND DEAD EMPLOYMENTS [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the Development and Support Administration of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2021 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Standards Institute Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent and Brand Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Patent and brand institution 2019 Central Management Final Account ISBN 0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0! [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management 2019 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Space Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Space Agency Final Account for Central Management 2019 We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. Commission? He's in position. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Bulent Tüfenkci. Here you go, Mr. Tüfenkci.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0141par0056	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Commerce. I hereby salute the High Council and the citizens who follow us on their screens with love and respect. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As I begin with my words, I hope that the budget of 2021 will bring blessings to our country, to our Veteran Assembly, and to our great nation. We just saw a show of opposition that we're really ashamed of. If they want to see the services of the AK PARTY, they'll go east, they'll see the AK PARTY, they'll see the AK PARTY, they'll go north, they'll see the AK PARTY, they'll go south, they'll see the AK PARTY. When they go through the bridges, they see the AK PARTY, they see the AK PARTY when they pass through Marmaray, they see the AK PARTY when they go to the city hospitals, they see the AK PARTY when they go to organised industries, they see the AK PARTY near the shop. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Despite a recession in global trade due to the epidemic, growing protective trends in international trade and attacks on our economy, the EC PARTY President continues to work decisively under the leadership of Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The Presidential Cabinet has taken and taken the necessary measures so that we can get through the crisis with minimal damage and quickly recover. As a matter of fact, we're starting to see the consequences. Turkey's economy grew by 6.7 per cent in the third quarter, becoming the fastest growing country in G20 countries with data released. Our strong growth rates in the third quarter indicate that our country is entering a rapid recovery process. Despite the re-enactment epidemic restrictions, we predict a positive growth of 2020 years. We are the 13th largest country in the world and the 7th largest in the OECD. According to the World Doing Business Index, the 2020 ranking has increased by 27 digits in the last two years alone. In response to the recent recession of our recent history, which the world faces because of its pandemic, our Trade Ministry is working to ensure that our exports are not interrupted and that we are minimally affected by the process. Our ministry, which develops new markets, new goals and innovative export approaches, is continuing to boost our country's foreign trade performance. The exports of $17.3 billion in exports in October, while the exports of large countries around the world declined, not just in 2020, but in the largest monthly exports of all time. Turkey remains an important actor in the Covid-19 process and then in global trade. The ministry's effort to increase our exports is satisfactory. That is why I congratulate and congratulate our entire team of ministers, Rusar Pekcan and the Ministry of Commerce. Mr. President, our ministry has quickly adapted to conditions that have changed due to the pandemic, developed effective solutions, initiated non-contact trade practices, virtual trade delegations and virtual fairs, easy export platforms, digital customs, customs in place, air and sea roads, and has best survived this process with digital customs. As we look at it, our international exporter numbers are being given the support needed to increase the competitiveness of our exports, to spread exports on the basis; in this year our exports have been paid $2.48 billion in Turkish dollars. During the year, Turkish EXIMBANK provided $37.7 billion in financing, with an increase of 5 per cent from the same period last year. The tradesmen and artists, of course, were affected by this epidemic. When we look at the benefits they've been given, some of us are really uncomfortable with them -- interest reductions, loans from the People's Bank. Why do you provide these cheap loans? They say, but we will continue to provide these cheap loans, and we will continue to be with the tradesman at all times. Because our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is a business-friendly President, a President, a leader. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thus, we will continue to stand by our tradesman, as people of the community. I wish the good fortune of our budget to the Lord of God.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0142par0070	The order belongs to Mr. Halil Etamamez. Here you go, Mr. Meatball.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0143par0073	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group for the Competitive Association's budget of 2021. I salute you all. I ask God's mercy on our martyr soldiers and an immediate cure for the wounded. Dear lawmakers, the 2021-year budget, which we consider a road map of our operations, the 19th and third budget of our EC PARTY governments, the presidency government system, has been prepared with our nation's most effective vision of delivering services to our nation. Our government, our President and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who performs historical reforms in all areas from education to health, from justice to safety, from transport to industry, from social security to environment, is taking our country to light tomorrows in a sense of unrestricted service and success in the leadership of our president and president, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Dear lawmakers, morality is the essence of man, the foundation of our social peace. The greatest virtue of superiority is good morality. What makes competition moral or immoral is not competition itself, but what values, what goals, and how it is done. For this, we need to know that competition has formal and formal rules, and competition has a moral and law. Leaving the markets on its own will increase the risk of taking initiatives in the market instead of competing for social well-being and economic development to businesses that could have a negative impact on economic development. This will also limit freedom of enterprise, thus disrupt basic democratic rights and freedoms. Dear lawmakers want to succeed in economic attacks that they have failed with coups and invasions, the focus of evil within and outside of us, the people who have committed treacherous terrorist attacks. We see that evil centers aim to prevent our country's progress by manipulating the internal market, by attempting to disrupt commercial life. Here, at this very moment, the importance and function of the Competition Foundation is once again revealed. The Competitive Association is working on its mission to prevent cartelisation and monopoly, to increase consumer benefit, to contribute to the healthy functioning of the market mechanism, to contribute to boosting international competitiveness. During our administration, arrangements have been made to ensure the creation of modern competitive law legislation, the capture of modern levels of competitive law, and the need for the Competitive Institution to meet the markets better. The most important requirement for contributing to consumer well-being is the establishment of effective competition. As we look at the work done by the Competitiveness Agency, which has been up to the capillaries of the economy, with its decisions, over the past year, in total 34 investigations, the institution has made final decisions, has launched some 30 new investigations, has opened up about 60 cases of competition violations, and has made decisions about 170 to take over. As a result of all investigations carried out by the institution, about $2.4 billion of administrative sanctions have been imposed this year as a result of the detection of competitive violations. As measured by the reference methodology of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the Competitive Competitiveness Agency is promoting consumer benefit to the country's economy for about $3 billion a year. Dear lawmakers, Covid-19 has once again shown us that the criteria for success of good institutions are ready for all kinds of risks and plagues. There are no surprises for good institutions. As a government, we have implemented and implemented policies aimed at the less impact of our producers, consumers and entrepreneurs in the process. In this sense, our institutions have been on the side of our beloved nation, making swift decisions without regard for sector division or authority jealousy. In the process, the Competition Association has shown us how important it is to implement effective competitive law. I'd like to thank our Ministry and your Competitive Association here in the presence of our Minister of Commerce, Rusar Pekcan. We have witnessed the zealous work of trade and consumer protection. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear MPs, on behalf of the nation I represent, I salute our great Assembly, that our government will never compromise its courage, national vision, and idealism on its way forward; that these values will always strengthen our democracy and civilization.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0144par0082	It's Mr. Fahri Cakir's turn to speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0145par0085	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. I've been promised the Hellal Accreditation Agency on behalf of my group. Hopefully, I'll try to convey the lawful and the unlawful in the measure of my time, but I wish our martyrs, whom we sent to Rahmetirahman yesterday, once again, to our veterans, to seek immediate healing. Dear friends, of course healing is a certificate, a document. It has a divine terminology in its name, perhaps a religious terminology, but there is a need for it; the laws are created based on institutions and needs. So, when the majority of Muslim countries come together and decide to form an alliance with such an institution, Turkey is the first country to lead it. I congratulate our Ministry of Commerce on this, thank them for responding to this need. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] So, it's not just a matter of Muslims, it's a concept of non-Muslims, Hindus, and nations of different religions. Because now the trade has become infertile to a point where a lot of documents are now being sought for the sale of commercial metas, goods, and trades for about two trillion dollars. That's why Jews, especially Jewish merchants, and producers, have adapted these documents in the marketplace, in the market, in the international Indian to reach the volume of the trade that they need, and they've also created these documents -- even from our exporters -- they've applied to those documents, so they need them. When we think about 1.8 billion people, in a world like this, where there's an absolute volume of trade for 2 trillion dollars, there's no doubt that our institutions are needed. A president of 50 personnel -- a young president, a remarkable experience -- a staff of 50 people with direct contacts and individuals in the past, and a government of five, again, competent individuals. Hopefully, I'd like to say to the children of this country that they're going to export from this country, that they're going to contribute to their production, to their well-being. Dear friends, this budget, of course, has been mentioned a lot on this bench, and it's been said a lot. Believe me, I'm not just saying it to answer, but I think what we want to say by putting our hands on our conscience is that this nation, the great nation, this nation, is not limited to just 83 million. A nation that appeals to our heart geography, to the province, to its entire region, to its culture geography, and to the geography of the heart. So, hopefully, this nation will have a bright future, both yesterday and today. So I curse those who say, "This budget is a war budget," coming from this platform to the eyes of the nation. This budget is not a war budget. This budget is the legal budget of this nation's mother's milk. So today, when we think that about 7.5 billion people live in the world, we live in a world where a certain number of people are obese from eating too much and some die because they can't find bread or food. In such a world, it is the greatest betrayal of this nation that everyone should boast of this country, that the budget for war should be proud. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, this country made a cannon, made a rifle, made a tank, made a missile, made a drone, made an I.R.A., made a U.S.A. budget in particular, for God's sake! I would especially like to thank our ministers, the members of the Cabinet, for handing over the domestic weapons that this nation has produced in its hands. Mr. Ministers, why didn't you work a little more overtime and produce more weapons? Mr. Ministers, why didn't you bring in the advanced technology on this matter at once?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0146par0094	Well, thank you, Congressman. The order belongs to Mr. Genghis Demirkaya.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0147par0097	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Technology. I salute you and those watching us at the beginning of the screens. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Precious lawmakers are shrinking economies due to the pandemic that surrounds the world. As a country, we work hard to achieve our goals on the road to 2023. With our vision of national technology, strong industry, we've given speed to our policies, and we'll continue to win, to encourage growth through high production leadership. Our Ministry of Industry and Technology, from advanced technology and innovation to digital transformation movement, from domestic automobile to respiratory device, from mind and zero emissions to the I.T. Valley of our country, from OSB to COSGEB, is moving our country into the future with strong steps in the field of technology and technology. GAP, DAP, DOCAP and KOP are meeting with our local industries, local production, local technology, with projects that promote regional development management. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are conducting the most comprehensive regional development project in our republic's history, which directly affects our nine provinces, including my constituency district of the GAP Regional Development Administration, which is part of our Ministry of Industry and Technology. Investments within the GAP have been made even more important in the period of EC PARTI, led by our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, since 2002. Dear friends, in 2003-2019 the GAP was earmarked for about $138 billion at current prices, and 89 per cent of the source was converted into 123 billion in investments. With these investments, 19 dams and 14 hydropower plants have been completed so far. The main irrigation canal between Şanlıurfa-Mardin was completed to meet the fertile and fertile territory of our province. Mardin Central, Derik, Kızıltepe and Nusaybin are now nearing the end of the construction of Mardin Derik water storage area where land can be watered down in our districts. About 360 million dollars were spent on this storage area at 2020 prices. In this way, the net income increase of about $324 million a year will be in the pockets of our farmers. When this project is finished, Mardin will be able to water a total of 171,000 hectares, and our farmers will not be dependent on electricity, and entry costs will be lowered. If the irrigation grids are complete, the shortage of electricity will be removed. For this, the city of tolerance and civilizations is needed for the completion of four projects in the area of our ancient city, where stone and silver live in skilled hands, which continue to be built within the borders of Mardin. Our ministry will complete these projects as soon as possible and submit them to the services of our Mardin farmers. In a nutshell, the GAP project has not only been limited to physical investments such as dams, hydropower plants, irrigation structures, but has also contributed to the development of socioeconomic sectors such as agricultural development, industrial, urban and rural infrastructure, communication, education, health, culture, tourism and other social services. Mr. President, the valued MPs will become the world's most efficient agricultural, animalism, trade and tourism centre when the GAP project is completed in the heart of Mesopotamia, which is called the modern-day crescent. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I put an end to my words, I ask that our Ministry of Industry and Technology's 2021 budget be blessed to our country, to our nation, to our industrialist, to God.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0148par0107	The order belongs to Mr. Mehmet Ali Cevheri. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0149par0109	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Southeastern Anatolia Project, whose short name is.GAP. As I begin my speech, I wish our 2021 budget to be good for our country and our nation, and I salute the entire House. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] On April 3, 1977, the foundation of the GAP was laid off by the region's people, called the Seven Earring Bride. On that day there was another festival in Şanlıurfa. The fertile crescent, the land of Upper Mesopotamia, which had been waiting for centuries, would be watered, and the vast plains would be abundant, and our people would work on their own land, and they would no longer carry water from miles [miles] [miles] [miles] [miles] away] in front of mothers and sisters. (AC PARTY) On that day, a new age of civilization was beginning for the Southeast Anatolian region as everyone was weeping with joy. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have found the most effective and broad implementation of regional development projects so far. The GAP is one of the most comprehensive projects in the history of the Republic, both financially and technologically. The GAP includes aims and policies to increase regional development in habitable cities and sustainable environments, to improve the quality of life as a human being, to reduce the difference in intergalactic development. With this approach, the GAP is a major project that has become international literature and has a brand value. Mr. President, valued MPs Adıyaman, Batman, Diyarbakır, Gaziantep, Kilis, Mardin, Siirt, Şanlıurfa and Şırnak counties as geographical areas and populations of about 10 per cent of Turkey. We see that the GAP project has a significant share of watering and energy investments. As part of this project, the construction of 22 dams, 19 hydropower plants in the region, and 221km long canals and irrigation networks stretching from Şanlıurfa to Cizre has come to an end. As of the end of 2019, 571.591 hectares of land were opened to water in the GAP region, and 403.830 hectares were taken into operation in Şanlıurfa. In addition, construction of the irrigation networks of 81,745 hectares is under way in Şanlıurfa, and in 277,874 hectares are still under way. However, the Hilvan-Sivrek-Viranşehir project, worth 1 million 580,000 Dekars, which is of great importance to Şanlıurfa, is still waiting to come to life. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, since the Ilisu Dam and the hydropower plant have been activated, the rate of energy projects has exceeded 91 per cent. Today, the GAP region has made the region star and pioneer in all areas, with its production, its contribution to employment and economics. When we look at some socioeconomic values in the region, we see it very clearly. Exports in the GAP region in 2002 amounted to $689.4 million, while in 2019 9.2 billion and increased more than 13 stories. The GAP region's share in total exports has risen from 1.9 per cent to 5.3 per cent. The region has made significant progress in the transport sector, providing air transport to all cities in the region. In 2002, the highway, which was 63 kilometers, increased to 294 kilometers, to 2,437 kilometers [304 km], and was provided by highway to the ports of Mersin and Alexander. Mr. President, when we look at the value of the lawmakers, the number of students per class in 2004 dropped from 50. The number of students per class dropped from 2018-2019 in the school year to 30. When we look at the schooling rate, it has risen to 45.9 per cent in preschool education; it has reached 100 per cent in primary school; it has become 92.7% in secondary school. The number of universities in the region has risen to nine, with the establishment of six new public universities. Again, there have been significant improvements in health care, and in 2000 the number of hospitals, 63, increased in 2018 to 130. The total number of beds 8,223 was 20,541, while the total number of physicians was 4,430 in 2002 and 11.458 in 2018. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The GAP project will continue to contribute and provide valuable socioeconomic contributions to the region, as noted in the statistical data quoted above. As I end my words, 2020 wishes our central budget and the GAP budget to be good, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0150par0123	Jacob Stone, Adıyaman MP.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0151par0125	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group on the budget for the East Anatolian Project (DAP) Regional Development Administration, which is part of the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute you all. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I wish God's mercy to our two soldiers who died yesterday, and to our wounded, and to our nation's heads. The East Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration budget for 2021 was set at $666,000. The purpose of the DAP Administration established during the EC PARTI period in 2011 is to speed up social, economic, environmental and urban development of the Eastern Anatolian Region, which is in development, to improve the region's development index, to re-coordinate, to carry out research, planning, projecting, monitoring, evaluation and coordination services required by investments in the region. Regional development, considered part of economic development, is also one of the key tools for providing social justice. With that understanding, the East Anatolian region was more important than the past during our AK PARTY administrations. The DAP Administration has provided financial support for the projects of many public institutions, local governments and universities in the region, by implementing programmes for various sectors starting in 2013. It financed major projects such as small scale agricultural irrigation, animal drinking water ponds, development of plant animal infrastructure, revitalisation of historical urban culture, development of reading culture and solar energy. Since its start in 2013, the DAP Administration supported 1,723 projects, and a total of $826m grants were earmarked for these projects. It supported 849 projects from 2013-2020, as part of small-scale agricultural irrigation projects. With the completion of these projects, 4,245km of canals have been built to water 1,666,000 hectares. A total of 285 equipment supports were provided from 2014-2020 under the Project on the Development of Plant Production Infrastructure. In addition, the living conditions of nomads have been improved and supported in 255 hectares of mera. Three farmers' education centres were established at the University of Ataturk, the University of Fırat and the University of Van Hundred Years, for our farmers operating in East Anatolia. Very valuable friends, between 2014-2020, the need for animal drinking water has been met by supporting 244 animal drinking projects capable of 4 million cubic metres of water storage capacity. At the ceremony, 35,121 suvats were distributed for animals to need water. The added value of animalism has also been supported by 30 animal markets and 35 slaughterhouses to be made in a higher way. In addition, the DAP Administration's financial aid has been developed and delivered 1 (period) to the DAP Administration provinces, offering the use of farmers in the mobile bathroom DAP region, which is the first in Turkey. 35 projects have been supported by a $41m budget for restoration to revitalise historically-identified areas. In particular, in order to increase the interest of children and young people living in low-income settlements and to make them qualified, technological, modern spaces were created, and a total of $28,950,000 was transferred to 154 projects. In our country, administrations and agencies are doing very valuable work to address the difference in development between regions, which is a particularly important issue. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers thanking our Minister of Industry and Technology, our Director of Development Agency, the Director of the DAP Administration and all employees, who have produced, encouraged, supported, and supported the development of East Anatolia, and all employees, and I wish you all the blessings of the Central Management of 2021.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0152par0136	The order belongs to Mr. Ahmet Inquisitor. Here you go, Mr. Interrogation.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0153par0139	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget for 2021. I hereby salute the entire General Assembly. At the very beginning of my words, I pray for God's mercy to our martyrs, to heal our wounded, and to send my condolences to their families. Dear lawmakers, the head of the KOP Regional Development Administration aims to meet the region's main watering and basic infrastructure needs, speed up economic and social development, sustainable and human-focused development. Central Anatolia, which is part of the KOP region, is Turkey's geography, a tolerance, a heart basin, which produces values on a global scale of knowledge, knowledge, morality. Many of the heart-lovers, such as Mazreddin Konevi, Muhiddin Arabi, Hajji Bektas Veli, Ahi Evran, have announced their universal message to the world from this region. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are operating in the KOP region, where water resources are the most limited despite large farmland, but also strategically for our country's food safety, with sustainable use of land and water resources and rural development priorities. The importance of food safety that has arisen along with the Hassaten coronavirus epidemic has once again uncovered the appeal of this region. The COP Administration also aims to promote social development through projects aimed at developing energy, tourism, industry and human capacity for the region's economic and social development. So far, the KOP Administration has provided 1.7 billion dollars in support for the region. As it is known, all living things are created from water. Man, animal and plant can never live without water, but so far, no alternative to water has ever been produced. At the same time, the Salt Lake and Carpınar Basin, located within the KOP region, is the least rainy area in Turkey with 250 millimeters of rain. The amount of underwater water in the closed basin for agricultural purposes is naturally higher than the amount of water that falls in the region. That's why there are many sinkholes in the area and they continue to form. In order to compensate for the water shortage in the basin, the two centuries-old dream of the Conium region, the KOP region, was first made up of two centuries. In the age of Abdulhamit Khan, in the early 1900s, the Ottoman project was the first project of construction and distribution of water from Lake Beyşehir to the Plain of Kolya. The second water transfer out of the basin is during the AK PARTI rule, led by our President, with the zeal of our Minister Veysel Eroglu... and I humbly thank you here. (AK PARTY applause) The 17100km Blue Tunnel (Greeks) from Skysu to Mediterranean Sea, the empty waters were transferred to the Conium Closed Basin, where 100 million cubic metres of water were divided into drinking, using water. Again, studies continue on additional water transfers from Ermenek Tea and Aksu. More support for agricultural life in the region, therefore, for the survival of the natural water cycle, additional water supply from outside the basin, the efficient, saving, efficient use of water, and the more water-needed plant pattern, is important. Dear MPs, it's the eve of the 747th anniversary of your vuslat. I hereby wish to put an end to my words by expressing the seven counsels of the Lord. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Be like the stream of generosity and charity. Be like the sun in compassion and mercy. Be like the night to cover other people's flaws. Be dead in anger and anger. Be as dust in humility and humility. Be like the sea in tolerance. It's either look who you are, or be who you seem to be, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0154par0151	The order belongs to our Giresun MP Kadir Aydın.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0155par0153	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group and on behalf of myself, on the budget of the head of the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration, whose short name is DOC. First of all, on behalf of myself and my group, I salute your grand delegation and our holy nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I thank you, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our state, who brought the Republic into our country as a regime, a way to make democratic elections a power, and turned this Veteran Assembly into the center of our nation. I remember with mercy and gratitude the mighty martyrs and veterans who contributed to our nation's fire of independence by burning their own bodies, including those who founded the 42nd and 47th Giresun Volunteer Regiments, and those who drank their testimony in these regiments, who allowed us to live freely and independently in this land. In particular, I pray for God's mercy and immediate healing for our wounded, for our soldiers who were killed in the flood of Giresun on August 22nd and for the safety of the road, and for our 10 citizens who were killed yesterday in the Fountain of Peace. In addition, I also remember and remember my beloved father, Tolz. Mehmet, whom I accepted the greatest inheritance of all the good foods he left us on December 12, 2017, just three years ago. In 2011, the head of the Eastern Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration, the central province of Giresun, was established and began its activities in 2012, in order for the region's potentials to be implemented. The service area is designated as the provinces of Rize, Artvin, Bayburt, Giresun, Silverhouse, Army, Samsun and Tripoli. During 2016, the Tokat were also included in the area of DOKAP and the Amasya and Çorum provinces in the year 2020, and were released from the administration's service area with 11. The DOCAP aims to coordinate the applications of the East Black Sea Project, and to speed up development of the region by providing research, planning, programming, projecting, monitoring, assessment and co-ordination services required in the cities in which development projects are implemented. Mr. President, precious MPs, I can't help but marvel at what the opposition, especially the budget talks, has said on this bench, and sometimes in awe. I'm amazed at the way I see it, because the system they call the only man's regime is called the presidency system, and it's a constitutional process of changing by the vote of the nation. The president of this country is the one man, and even some of them are calling him a didictator, and has been elected by the votes of our nation. I'm also admiring them, because how they talk and pretend to believe that they can't even believe in themselves! How they assassinate the values of the people! Everyone should know that trying to discredit people's values and values won't give anyone any credit or altitude. Because everyone's reputation is hidden in their own making and in their own past. One of the things that amazes us is that we challenge PKK/PYD, DEAS, terrorist organizations, sound comes from here; if we oppress our own people and turn our borders into a terror nest, the voice comes from here; for the future of our nation in the Mediterranean, we touch Greece, the Greek, the Greek, the Greek, the Greek, the voice comes from here; we touch Armenia for the law of our Azerbaijan brothers; the voice comes from here; if we touch Hafter, the voice comes from here; if we touch Kandil. We want your opposition to our President not to discredit the state and the political institution; we want our voice to always rise for the sake of our state, for the welfare of our nation. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we wish you the best of success in your mission to Mr. Hakan Gültekin, our new DOKAP president. I salute the precious members of our Veteran Assembly, the sons of our country who have been on guard for 24 hours to live in peace, all political actors, who, even though not under the same roof, have brought value to politics in language and style, to our state's back, to the welfare of our nation and to the challenge of seven heifers, Mr. State Gardens and President Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0156par0161	The order belongs to Mr. Ahmet Tan. Please come in.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0157par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the President of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration in the 2021 budget for budget talks. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation, watching us on their screens, with love, respect, and conversation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Because of their roles in economic and social development, the COBI, which is the engine of economies, is more important because of their roles in economic and social development, providing more production and product diversity with fewer investments, creating employment with low investment costs, creating infrastructure for large industrial investments, promoting the bottom of revenue distribution. In recent years, the diversity of KOSGEB support programmes, support costs, and average support per COBI are increasing. In this scope, the Foreign Market Support Programme was adopted in 2020 to make more KOBI exporters and increase the capacity of exporting businesses to open new markets. The revised support model in 2019 opened the way for the manufacturer entrepreneurs to receive grants of up to 375,000 Turkish liras, while for entrepreneurs in traditional sectors, up to 65,000 Turkish liras. In these supports, young, women, disabled, veterans and first-degree martyr-related entrepreneurs are privileged, favourably discriminated against. From 1990 to 2002, 4,000 businesses were paid 14.5m Turkish liras for support in 12 years, while from 2003 to today 487,000 businesses were paid 7.5 billion Turkish dollars for support. The same is true in my constituency, Kütahya. From 1990 to 2002, only 4 businesses were paid $33,000 in support, and from 2003 to 2003, $2,705 in 18 years has been supported by businesses. So I'm supposed to point out here that we've achieved about one and a half times, twelve years, eighteen years, about the same time, but 120 times as many businesses in Turkey; we've achieved 676 times as many businesses in Kütahya -- my constituent region. In the same way, we've provided 500 times more support in Turkey as a amount; we've provided 1,250 times more support in my constituency, Kütahya. Of course, our friends, why does this nation love the AK PARTY? I think they've been asking questions for 18 years, maybe they can't find the answers, and that's why. Of course, this support is in the hearts of our nation, which a party born from within its nation, who thinks of its people, is also acceptable to its people. They say: "Where do these coins come from?" There are blessings, friends, blessings, blessings. But the face of our martyrs is for the sake of water, but the face of our praying people is for the sake of water, and my Lord helps this nation.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0158par0170	Why do you want an IBAN? If there's plenty, why do you want an IBAN?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0157par0171	The season is now in the direction of spring, and each day will be much better than the day before that. Don't worry about it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We, the AK PARTY, are also working to adapt the COBIs to industrial production. Since 2002, we had one organised industrial area in Kütahya, and now we have seven organised industrial areas: 1. Industry, 2. Industry, Victory Organised Industry, Rabbited Organised Industry, Gediz Organised Industry, Reformed Industry, Ihtisas Organised Industry, and Simav Geothermal Seraism, which we are currently working on. Victory, our Organised Industrial Zone, which is worth a great deal to our province, has six million square feet [6 million m] in its advantages, such as its proximity to the Victory Regional Airport, the high-speed train route. I hereby thank Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President, who has never denied his support in bringing six organised industrial zones into our province in 18 years, on behalf of our former ministers and all those who have done their work, especially Mr. Mustafa Varank, our Minister of Industry and Technology, on behalf of our people, Kütahya. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As I finish my words here, I salute your great delegation and our beloved nation, wishing that the 2021 year budget be better, with respect.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0159par0179	It's Mr. Mustafa Özrli's turn to speak. Here you go, Mr. Biserli.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0160par0182	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group regarding the budget of the Turkish Standards Institute for our Ministry of Industry and Technology. Before I begin, I salute you and our beloved nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The EC PARTY, which raised our country's standards in all areas, is determined to bring Turkey into the top 10 economies in the world by supporting growth and development under our President's leadership and the requirements of democracy and the legal state. Despite every attack our power has been subjected to, the AK PARTI will continue without giving up its strong, large, prosperous and democratic Turkey ideal. (AK PARTI) In the agenda of the EC PARTI, the legal and economic reforms, the epidemic that affects the world, the world's most volatile and controversial relations, while protecting our country's rights and laws, its interests, we regretfully follow with the opposition's agenda to complain to its enemies of Turkey, to create unnecessary agendas, away from the country's reality. Dear lawmakers, the rise in production and export level is crucial at the point of reaching our goal of entering the top 10 economies in the world between our country's 2023, 2053 and 2071 targets. Today, more than 80 per cent of the world's trade has been found to be affected by standardisation and technical regulations. At this point, there is no blame on global trade to say that common language is standards. The trend in the world is to gain the advantage of competition by allowing countries' national standards to become international and regional standards. In this context, the Turkish Institute of Standards has conducted standardisation and compatibility assessments in order to facilitate our country's competitiveness, facilitate national and international trade on the national and international level for sixty-six years, while neutral, independent, efficient and reliable, as well as representation of its activities in my city. Turkey's Standards Institute continues its work with a staff of 1 representative in Kırşehir, 2 staffed staff and 5 full-time analysts. The Turkish Standards Institute's services for the development of Turkey's industry are diversification, but its most basic activity is co-ordination in standardization studies. The institute is an institution of strategic importance for our economy in determining the conditions of products and services with standards prepared for current needs. The institute allows our industry to enter global markets with standards, while increasing its efficiency in the process of preparing international standards. At the same time, the Turkish Standards Institute serves as a guarantee of product and service safety for our consumers with the TSE brand, as well as all the certification, examination and testing services our country needs in the field of proper assessment. The Turkish Institute of Standards conducts about 20,000 product documents each year, 4,000 management system documents and 30,000 service credentials. He also documented technical competence for about 30,000 people in training programmes. More than 100,000 probationary procedures, over 85,000 experiments, transport with a calibration report, have produced over 300,000 documents in logistics. The Turkish Institute of Standards has taken critical steps towards the pandemic process. These are the setting of the TSE K 599 criteria for washable cloth masks, the preparation of manuals that involve maintaining the health of workers in the manufacturing industry and in the service sector, to ensure continuity in production. The Turkish Standard Institute of Standards, under its authority from the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, has signed the Security Tourism Document, the Employment Union Protocol with the Ministry of National Education and carried out the study of clean documentation in our schools. He also created a documenting model for shopping malls. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I put an end to my words, I wish our ministers, our TSE President, our country and our nation the best budget of 2021, our Veteran Assembly, and I salute you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0161par0192	The order belongs to Mr. Derya Bakbak. Here you go, Mr. Bak Bakk.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0162par0194	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my AK PARTY Group on the budget of 2021 of the Turkish Patent and Marka Corporation. At first, I salute our beloved nation and the Veterans' Assembly, and I ask God's mercy to all our martyrs. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The Turkish Patent and Marka Foundation performs important tasks such as patents, useful models, brands, geographical signs, traditional product names, designs, license registration, registration procedures, the protection of test property rights. In addition, Turkey's Patent and Marka institution, which governs national and international policies in the field of testing, serves to register, commercialise, and boost competitiveness. As our president, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, said, testing property rights, particularly patents and brands, are the most important indicator of the development and innovation performance of businesses and countries. With this consciousness, with our testing property system, we're building a high-tech infrastructure, high-velocity, internationally competitive, big and strong Turkey. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to point out a few issues: we've implemented patent-based technology transfer support. In 2006, we implemented the Hezarfen Project to increase the innovation capacity of the KOBI. The 2023 target was moved by the vision of 2053-71, and we laid the foundation of our factory by previewing the car of Turkey. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We've started producing our country's first domestic auto-shock device and exporting it and donating it. We continued our local vaccine studies and synthesized the substance of the drug as domestic and national. N95, we developed the N99 mask filters domestically and licensed them to our industry. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We created our brands with national capabilities and showed everyone the power of Turkey's technology.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0163par0200	Bravo!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0162par0201	We've developed our sequel-piercing drone bombs, HABRAS, Bozdoğan, Skyborn air missiles. We've built the first domestic and national GPS receiver of Turkey, KASIF (Kalil), the national processor, the national smart card operating system, the laser weapons system. Our country has produced its own brands, including HURJET, ATAK, Raşcı, Bayraktar TB2, TCG Anadolu, TURKSAT 6A and national software. We have the right pride of creating our brand in every field from the bottom of the sea to the depths of space. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] See, if we didn't make our drones, our SIHA, our tanks, our rifles, with domestic and national resources that fear the enemy, would we be so powerful in our region today? (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Could we have written epics in Operation Firat Shield, Olive Branch, Peace Fountain? (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Would we be able to nullify the corridor of terror that was meant to be built along our border and hit terrorist organizations with the most severe blows? Would we be able to make the ICU ventilator that the whole world needs in a very short time? Here's where we came under the leadership of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Turkey, which we're proud of. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] See, in the past 18 years, Turkey has been ranked 13th in international patent applications, 8th in brand applications, 5th in design applications. The number of patent applications, which were 1,874 in 2002, increased to 12.628 during the period of September 2020-January, to the number of brand applications, to 31.010, to the number of design applications, to 31,650, to the number of useful model applications, to 2,581, to the number of local patents from the university, increased to 1.143 degrees in 2002, while the number of patents from 2019 were 17 times higher in 2002.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0164par0207	Bravo!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0162par0208	The total number of geographical marker registrations has risen to 547. Meanwhile, in the European Commission, Gaziantep is the first most successful city in our country with 33 registered geographical signs -- one of which is one of the most successful -- and the Antep baklava is the second in the number of products. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Over 100,000 young people from 81 countries and 84 countries have applied with 20,197 teams, which have contributed greatly to our country's national technology move. I'd like to say with pride that our veteran city has set a record of 3,891 projects for TEKNOFEST. It is the unity that makes us strong, the faith that we have in our union, in our beloved nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As an AK PARTY, I hope we can raise our moon-star flag to the highest in the light of science and technology. With these feelings, I wish you all the best in the 2021 budget, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0165par0217	Yes, it's Mr. Emine Yavuz's turn to speak. Here you go, Mr. Google.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0166par0220	Mr. President, honorable MPs, I have made a pledge on the budget of the Turkish Scientific and Technological Research Agency TÜBITAK. As a powerful Turkey, we've signed success stories from yesterday to today with a vision of technology, powerful industrial vision in technology as well as in any field, and we'll continue to write new success stories, hopefully. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] TUBITAK, which conducted critical research from defence to health, from space to polar work, food to environment, energy to IT, in many areas, encouraged businesses to invest more in RD with millions of grants to RD projects. 18,000 projects are being conducted at RD centers. The mass production of an intensive care ventilator designed by our techno park company during the outbreak during which the entire world struggled with Covid-19. Again, the TÜBITAK Marmara Research Centre leads our ecosystem by co-ordinating the co-ordination of vaccines and pharmaceutical development of the Covid-19 platform, where 436 researchers from 49 different institutions and organisations have gathered. In our national technology move, we contribute to the growth of scientists in the future with human understanding, scholarship programs, and the tryEYAP workshops that raise future technology stars. In 2021, our thousand undergraduate students will be able to experience TÜBITAK research projects by joining the Intern Research Program. Dear lawmakers, the Bursa Metropolitan Municipality of Bursa is the city of agriculture, tourism, history, culture and industry, but in addition to these, it is one of the top nine airports and space centers in Europe and one of the first in our country, the Bursa Technical University Technology Development Zone, the symbol of the new Industrial Revolution, TEKNOSA, BTSO, Bursa Metropolitan City Municipality, the first in the world, and the first in the world, the Bursa Gökmen Space and Aerospace Education Center, the symbol of the new Industrial Revolution, the electric network, the annual network, the 60th edition of our automobile, and the best in the world. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, this budget is a complementary budget called from education to health, industry to technology, where compassion is stronger than our civilization, embraces all parts of society, and everyone finds themselves. This budget, as our President has always expressed, is possible if there is faith. It is a budget that gives us the power to build new dreams with our nation's trust. (AC PARTY) This budget, like our reforms that have been implemented so far, continues to follow us, a harbinger of lasting, powerful reforms. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Who in this budget can't find themselves? Every chance he gets to talk about women's rights, he's a traitor, he's a scoundrel -- the pit is a level -- the PKK's terror group kidnapped him to the mountain, forced him to become a terrorist, their dreams stolen girls, their abuses ignored, they can't find themselves in this budget. (AK PARTY) I do not call the teacher following the power. The separatist mindset, who does not think as he does, of course, cannot find itself in this budget. (APPLAUSE) The world is bigger than five........ as we walk safely towards our goals, as our President, who stands with dignity and uprightness...... says, "What am I doing here?......"and those who beg for democracy from outside can't find themselves in this budget." [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] With the resurrection of Ayasofya, as our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan put it, we have new words for the whole world. By strengthening our bonds with our values that make us who we are, our country will come much stronger and we will build men and women together, and I give my regards.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0167par0232	This is Mr. Ceyda Cetin Erens. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0168par0235	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group on the chair of the Turkish Academy of Sciences. I salute our General Assembly and our beloved nation, who are watching us on their screens. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Established in 1993, the Turkish Academy of Sciences is the continuation of the Councilmen-i Danish, the first Turkish academy established by the Ottoman State in 1851, and a successful representative of our country in the field of science. Supporting studies of science and education, rewarding scientific studies, leading our young people to science, research, is one of the main goals of TUBA. TUBA, a respected member of academic institutions in the international world of science, shares its work with foreign science academys, roof establishments and scientists. (AK PARTI) The Turkish-Islamic Cultural Heritage Project, conducted under the protection of our presidency, published 29 works. In addition, nine works and many publications, including valuable information on medicine, geography, politics, and etiquette, have been delivered to scientists by the academy. In 2001, TÜBA introduced nearly a thousand prizes in various fields to our scientists, to encourage scientists and internationally qualified projects and publications. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President, who provided all the support in our country for the enrichment of scientific work, also favours the TÜBA awards. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Members of parliament, the thousand-year-old Anatolian civilization has surrounded the world of ideas of all mankind, with centuries of learned hearts, as if it were a great tree reaching into the vastness of the branches. The oldest university known in the world is on this land. The 81 provinces of our country were equipped with dynamic, innovative and science-based universities during our AK PARTY period. (AK PARTY) Both of our scholars are in our city, our city, the land of founding and salvation, the capital of China, Kütahya.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0169par0243	Bravo!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0168par0244	Our Dumlupınar University, one of the major universities of our country, and the University of Health Sciences, which is from the three universities of health science in Turkey, is able to contribute successfully to our city, our country, and our nation, with academic staffs and valuable students with scientific vision. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We believe total development will be done with science and education. Under the leadership of our President, we have achieved many achievements that we are proud of on the road that we set out with the goal of digital Turkey in a domestic and national technology move, saying that we will build the new Turkey in the light of science, science, innovation, and innovation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our drones, our NEHA, our ANKA, our ANKA, our HURKÜSTAN, and our native motor will fly the earth's astonishing and jealous eyes, and the importance of our AK PARTI governments to technology and science will not only be in the heavens, where Ataturk's word is not in words, but in action; who's work, and who's making words, and who's making words. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In 14 days, our country produced its own ventilator, while European countries who describe themselves as the superpowers of the world can't find a ventilator for Covid-19 patients.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0170par0252	We're in the top 10 percent of the world, and we're in the top 10 percent of the world! In Covid, we are the world's top 10th.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0168par0253	With our native automobile, with developments in the space and pharmaceutical industry, with our ships and submarines and many more successes, we are moving firmly towards our goal of fully independent Turkey. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) In the world, there is determination, courage and struggle behind all successes. Praise be to God, this spirit is present in our nation, in our young people, in our scientists, and we, the EC PARTY, are always there for them, and we believe that our future will be much brighter. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] With these thoughts, I wish our budget would be the cause of efforts to help our country's scientific development, to open the horizon of mankind, and I salute our great Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0171par0257	It's Mr. Zeynep's turn to speak. Here you are, Miss Zeynep.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0172par0260	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group regarding the 2021 budget of the Turkish Space Agency, our very precious nation, who has been following us from the beginning of the screens. I'd like to start by saluting you all with respect and respect. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As a matter of fact, in our daily lives, it's a miracle to suddenly look up and see the sky. The feeling of eternity that exists in man is the need to watch the sky, the desert, and the sea. In fact, each one of us is part of God and carries an eternity within us as a ruler. From our cells to galaxies, it's actually one of humanity's main issues. In fact, when Westerners described space with the word "space", Muslim scientists described it as simply the knowledge of the community of the spheres, or the knowledge of the spheres, or the science of the spirals. In fact, it shows us something valuable: space is an unknown to us, not a void, but a awareness. Thus, the contribution of Turkish and Muslim scientists to the common heritage of humanity is being tried to be taken to a giant parentheses in the history of the world, an act of insecurity. We will continue to tell ourselves and the world that this is not so. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] At this point, the Turkish Space Agency is one of the organizations that has established an important bridge between our historical codes and our future. It's the organization that coordinates both our vision of space and the institutions that work in space. So it's both a budget that we're talking about and an additional income in the 8th article of the decree. At this point, the Turkish Space Agency is open to the world, creating with the world, revealing a vision of leaving a trail to space. So at this point, the Turkish Space Agency actually signed up for very valuable business units -- APSCO, COSPAR, ISNET, EURISY, IAF and SpaceX -- as of last year. It was found in co-ordination at the point where Turkish engineers provide software to satellites produced by the European Space Agency and the Chinese Space Agency. And yet, our ENGLISH 5A satellite will soon meet space. At this point, we will be developing our ability to transport data both in our orbital rights and in the data-based economic system. However, at the point of rapid internet use, I would like to share with you the information that the UTITAK-sponsored Uca Native and National 5G Project is continuing rapidly at the point of rapid internet use. Of course, what we produce with our own means is not limited to that. Our high-resolution monitoring satellite, developed by domestic and national infrastructure, was completed in June. Our first domestic communications satellite, TKSAT 6A, is one of the developments we've been following closely. Of course, the question of access to space is as critical and strategic as the software for the nationalization of communications systems. At this point, on October 29th, ROKETSAN managed to access space with liquid-fueled rocket engine technology, doing so for the fourth time. The micro satellite launch system development project is under way by ROKETSAN again. I thank the Turkish engineers who have given us these developments and our president, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has opened space for them. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Ladies and gentlemen, last year I told you about the success of young people on this bench, the students of the Bulent Ecevit University, who were the first in the first in the TEKNOFEST, the first in the model satellite competition. Those students took their achievements one step further, and on January 14, 2021, the team of the Grizu263 will launch the mobile satellite they originally designed by SpaceX's Falcon X rocket into space. This actually shows us one thing: on the basis of the equality of opportunity, young people have begun to explore their own abilities within the ecosystem of the global technology movement, which they have started to do in their own country. And at this point, there are two capitals behind young people: one is their intelligence and their workforce, and the other is the state of the Republic of Turkey, which stands behind their achievements until the end. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You know how someone always says that geography is destiny, geography is destiny? They're trying to inject a pessimism. And we say, yes, geography is destiny. Glorious El Battani of Harran, you know, is the one who calculates that one year is 365 days, so that includes our destiny. Al Cezeri, the father of the Cybernetics, is from Cizre; Edirne, the grandson of Ali Kuşçu, was raised by Mirim Çelebi. The land of Cacabey is our destiny, and the sky is ours. So young people who are part of this fate will design our quantum satellites, our cube satellites, our launch systems, design our space stations. At this point, let the young be free to be proud of the true achievements of this country and love their country as much as possible. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0173par0275	It's time for the good party...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0174par0276	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0173par0277	Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0174par0278	There was a taunt, and if you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer from the stand.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0173par0279	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0175par0280	Who picked on you?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0174par0283	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, the speaker said: "I curse those who call the war budget. I return that curse to him, and I return it to him.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0175par0284	You too, you too!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0174par0285	Now, look, we're gonna talk. We're talking about the 2021 budget, you're not spending your father's money, and even when you're spending it, your father asks you how you spent it.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0175par0286	Are we wasting your father's money?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0174par0287	We're discussing how to reshape a budget collected from the public's taxes. Of course we're going to say, "Separate more budgets for education." Of course we're going to say, "Separate more budgets for health." Of course we're going to say, "Search more budgets for research." Could there be anything more natural than that? You've emptied the treasure, you've reduced the Central Bank to less, you've expanded the budget deficit, you've expanded the current deficit, you've raised the budget debt to 304 billion Turkish dollars, it's not clear where you're taking $128 billion; you've bounced the currency, you've charged Turkish lira, you've brought inflation and unemployment to the top; let's not discuss this, shall we? You've ruined the worker, the laborer, the peasant, the tradesman, the farmer, the young woman, and let's not discuss it? You've got five conglomerates in Turkey; let's not discuss them, huh? [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] And you've completed a budget he hasn't completed so far with another Treasury and Finance Minister; we're flying the economy. When he says he's crashed, let's not discuss it, shall we? We're dealing with all kinds of decay, all kinds of evil, a government policy, so let's not discuss it? Look, the budget is the most basic democratic right, the basic democratic right of the people. So to discuss this in democracy... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, sir. Two plus one, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0176par0294	It was two plus one, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0174par0295	I have two sentences left, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0176par0296	Mr. President, but two plus one...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0177par0297	Wait a minute, I won't allow this discussion, I will, but we've determined that from the start. I said, "Do you want to talk about it?" I said, "No, from here." He said, "I'll give you two minutes to tease."
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0174par0298	Well...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0177par0299	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0178par0300	Mr. President, there's no need to prolong it, just for the record.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0177par0301	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0178par0302	All speeches can be criticised for all of them, but when their own speakers make some unjust, unjust, insulting remarks and attacks, they actually jump when they tell them what they're saying. As a result, I'm returning his exact speech to the speaker. I congratulate all our friends on their talks, and I commend them, that we are all behind them as a group, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0179par0304	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0177par0305	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0179par0306	Mr. President, this is our Ankara MP, Zeynep Yildiz, who was just speaking. It's a good speech, and it's hopeful. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0180par0307	All our speakers were, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0179par0308	I couldn't listen to some of it, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0181par0309	Listen, then, you'll be happy.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0179par0310	She also said one good thing, and quoted the great Ataturk. Mr. Congressman, before you arrived, the words of the great Ataturk were written on the planes of Turkish Airlines, and when the AK PARTY came after you, it was erased.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0182par0311	No, no, no.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0179par0312	Deleted, deleted. I wanted to put that on the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0183par0315	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0184par0316	Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0183par0319	Thank you. Mr. President, if the Deputy Chairman of Justice and Development Party had said, I wouldn't object to any of the other things you said... look, we're being critical here, we're being critical, we're being critical, aren't we? But what a curse! What a curse! We're not going to ask you what words, what concepts we're going to criticize this budget with. We're going to criticize with our own concepts, and you're going to respond to criticism, and you're going to answer hard, but if we start arguing with sentences like curses, desecrations, concepts, does that end? At least don't criticize it. Say, "It's not appropriate." You own it.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0185par0321	There's no such thing as a proxy, there's no such thing as a curse.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0186par0322	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0187par0323	And you don't have to open it, Mr. President, for the reports...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0186par0324	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0187par0325	I say, "Look, authority belongs to the free, unconditional nation. " It says, "We feel it in our hearts, and we reveal it in our practices. " It is in the heavens. Says Ataturk, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, by raising 26 airports to 56. We sign this statement in order to carry out the airway as a public road.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0188par0327	He misunderstood Ataturk, and did not descend from the heavens, but set up a fleet of airplanes.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0186par0328	Thank you, Mr. Akbasoglu. 1) Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Trade Ministry 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Competitive Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Helal Accreditation Agency 2019 Central Management Final Account == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account EPISODE TO PRODUCTION AND PRODUCTION OF LITTLE AND DEAD EMPLOYMENTS [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the Development and Support Administration of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2021 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Standards Institute Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent and Brand Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Patent and brand institution 2019 Central Management Final Account ISBN 0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0! [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management 2019 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Space Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Space Agency Final Account for Central Management 2019 Mr. Bedri Yaşar on behalf of the Good Party.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0189par0380	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Captain Yasin Kurt and Sergeant Oğuzhan Anar. I ask God's mercy, and my condolences to his grieving family. In the year of his death, I bless Hussain Nihal Nihal without his horse, God rest his soul. The Ministry of Commerce's budget for 2021 is estimated at 6 billion, 585 million, 834,000 liras. 29 per cent of this budget is earmarked for personnel and social security costs and 63 per cent for current transfers. The government's budgets are crucial to the emergence of economic and social goals. The budget covers not only certain parts of society, but all of its entire households, and is of great interest to the entire household, because budgets are actually a harbinger of production, employment, investment; a harbinger of prosperity, abundance, and fertility. This budget is not a budget of abundance, nor is it a budget of prosperity... Unfortunately, there's taxes for every division, interest payments; unfortunately, there's an additional budget deficit. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] One of the most affected areas of the pandemic was 2,250,000 tradesmen and artists. There are thousands of businesses in the trade district that have not been opened since March or have been profitable, even if opened. The rents of these businesses, social security premiums, electricity and gas bills have become unpayable. In closed schools, 20,000 school canteens have been closed for ten months. Again, orders have been cancelled in hundreds of Turkey's locomotive sectors, and the wheels are not turning. With 350,000 school and business service drivers; again, 110 thousand hotels, including restaurants, the restaurant owner; cook, waiter, busboy are unemployed. The public bus and the van shop, carrying 50/50 passengers, operates with great sacrifice, under very difficult circumstances, at loss. 100,000 citadels and coffee shop owners have been victims for months, as well as their employees. We've asked these merchants to at least provide monthly financial assistance at a certain rate; unfortunately, no one has heard from the government. At least we agreed to pay $500 per person or $2,000 per institution, which you didn't hear or hear. (APPLAUSE) The pandemic damage of businesses has not been met until today; it has only been tried to divert loans from loans, but its deadline has passed, six months have passed, and now the payments have doubled; SGO payments, tax payments, credit payments; unfortunately, the pandemide has peaked; come out if you can get out. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Dear lawmakers, of course, lawmakers from the ruling party here have always praised the budget, praised it. I'm saying that our two ministers are here; our Trade Minister is here, our Minister of Industry is here; look, the investments we've made in these ministries, the budgets we've provided, you know? He comes back in height, comes back as a job, comes back as a job. You've been clapping all the time, look, we're offering from here, we're saying, "Come, let's increase the budget of these ministries. But who's in the living room, who's in the hall, who's in the hall? In fact, this budget actually helped, you know, we got to know friends we didn't know, we got to see them up close, and we got to see most of our congressman friends on the stand because of the budget meeting. Dear lawmakers, look, today small and medium-sized businesses have about 12 million jobs in the service sector. Turkey has about 3 million 155,000 small and medium-sized businesses. About 55 per cent of our country's exports are provided with these small and medium-sized enterprises, and another 80 per cent of the non-national population is provided with the ability of the KOBI. Unfortunately, loans from small and medium enterprises reached $619 billion as of January 2020. About 10 per cent of those debts were also followed by 62 billion liras. Thus, the number of small and medium-sized businesses that followed increased to 317,550. Now, before every budget, Mr. President talks about the bitter prescription, he says: "We have to apply painful prescriptions." That's what the country's been doing in 18 years. So, what's in the bitter prescription? The pain prescription will say: there's pressure, there's additional taxes, there's unemployment, there's increased inflation, there's deficits. Is there a plan or a schedule for all this? We haven't heard any advice from our fellow lawmakers in power, nor have we heard any suggestions. They think it's all about roses and roses. They think their house is the wedding house, so everything's fine, there's no problem, it's all going well, there's no problem. Outside, we have unemployment rates, youth unemployment rates of 26 per cent; according to the figures, we have average unemployment of 12. Inflation 14-15. How do we figure this out? I told you, the solution is to increase the budget of the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Commerce. We're going to increase their budget so that they can support the tradesman, the manufacturer, the industrialist, and they can create jobs, and everyone in their business will pay their taxes, and our government will invest in taxes. But we didn't see or hear any suggestions about it. Of course, there's export numbers. In April... In the 100th year of the republic, for example, we had 2023 goals; we were talking about $500 billion in exports, we were talking about one-digit inflation, fixed currency rates, and then exchange rates that were raised to figure 8. Look, guys, it's obvious that none of this is going to happen today. In the same way, we were aiming for a $139 billion budget deficit for 2019, and we gave our Minister 5 per cent of the power to increase our president by 5 per cent. Unfortunately, they weren't enough, they're up to 200 billion budget deficits. And so, in this year's budget, we've predicted 245 billion budget deficits. What's it gonna be? We have no idea if he'll hold it. So there's also an institution in Turkey called TİK; whether we believe it or not, should we follow it, then follow it, we don't know where to go, we don't understand. Yeah, well, let's just say that's true. So we didn't see, hear, hear. I'm originally from the Silver House. The Silver House has been invaded by the Russians. There's a Kop Pass between the Silver House and Bayburt. There's a village we didn't hear just to the right of Kop Pass. You know what? The Russians came from Erzurum, and from Bayburt, and came, and occupied the Silver House, and stopped for two years, and returned, and never heard of it. We haven't heard of this village. Now we're looking at the same thing here, guys, you haven't heard, you haven't heard, you haven't heard, you haven't heard, you haven't heard, you haven't heard, you haven't heard, you haven't heard, you haven't heard, you haven't heard, you haven't heard, you haven't heard, you haven't heard, you haven't heard, you haven't heard, you haven't heard, you don't heard, you don't see people in the street, you don't stop at the barbers? Don't you ever stop by town? So you're not going to the grocery store at all? Don't you ever get around young people? Our Samsun MP just told us that a 29-year-old boy killed himself yesterday. Did that not cause your conscience to suffer? I'm talking for nothing, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Dear friends, under normal circumstances of this budget... well, we've looked at it recently; Turkey has grown 6.7. I mean, how did Turkey get 6.7 percent bigger when all the world's economies were shrinking? I don't understand much either, but we understand that you're talking more about this growth of consumption. A growth based on consumption is of no use to anyone, it comes and goes like the wind. What we want is growth based on production, growth based on exports, growth based on employment, so that at least our young people can get a future in this country. Unfortunately, an important part of our young people are out looking for their future. They don't think there's an area in the country anymore. We have a young population; we have young, educated people, but unfortunately we can't promise them a future. And speaking of which, there are certain problems with trade soldiers, especially with our Trade Minister here, to increase exports. These small, medium-sized businesses should definitely increase export volumes, not at the level we want. In the same way, trade attachés need to guide them. I also said in the budget recently that there are more employees working in the trade attaches of China today than in their own embassy. So by strengthening our trade attaches, we definitely need to clear the way for the manufacturer, the job, the exporter. Of course, those who work abroad have certain problems, they have some debts, especially in Central Asia, and we have companies that work in Africa. And what they're going to get -- they're going to get to us from time to time -- our friends say there's no serious distance. We need backup on that, too. Again, there are loans provided by EXIMBANK. Sadly, small and medium-sized businesses exporting a significant portion of the requirements required to use on them also cannot meet those conditions. Of course, since my president won't give me time, since I know it from the beginning, there is one thing, I have to make it clear. It's a subject of our Samsun. There is a SOCR in Samsun, which has been operating since 1965, about 5,000 people work at this facility, and 12,000 people with their families bring home the bread. It has been an important means of production and employment for our country so far. I'm afraid the business has gone all the way to the bankruptcy desk because of your debt to the banks. Today, of course, the state shares in certain companies because of pandemics in Germany, and then once they're back on track, they'll pass on their shares, so give a hand to a car that's on the road, and let's walk it out. This is just plain. So we're talking about a business that deals with about 12,000 populations in Samsun. Therefore, it awaits the government's hand of compassion. At the very least, let him come in and make up our debts. It's a business that appeals to a very serious population. If it can be structured, we will make serious contributions both in terms of exports and in terms of employment." he says, "He expects our help in this matter as well. Otherwise, we're gonna lose these businesses one by one. There is no need to state the importance of businesses in Asia Minor, and you all know it. Of course, I also want to talk about the Competition Board, the competition environment, especially after these privatisation efforts. Today in the Aegean, the price of cement, the price of concrete, you write the fines, but it says, "I'll pay the fine, I'll keep applying the same prices." I think there should be something further than that. Of course, competition should be not only in the food industry, but also in the business sector. Madam was just saying, Mr. President, the world is bigger than five. I say, Mr. President, that five horsemen of your apocalypse, Turkey is greater than five horsemen of that apocalypse. If you can't create competition, you can't lower prices if you can't create competition in each sector. We say, "God bless anyone who puts stone on stone in this country." For example, we voted for the defense industry, Mr. Secretary, and you have your work, thank you. We didn't think the defense industry budget was enough. The defence industry should be invested in the security of the country. We never see this as a war budget, we raise our teeth, we raise our nails, we approve that whatever it takes for the safety of this country. So we're willing to contribute to all kinds of support, but, as we say, open up this competition in the construction industry, and the costs will go down. We're not against the road, the bridge, the hospital; they cost a lot of money, we're against it. Open up to competition, and you'll see that the government will have very serious savings. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] I wish the budget of 2021 to be a blessing to our Ministry of Industry and Commerce, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0190par0403	Thank you, Mr. Yasar. The order belongs to Mr. Aydın Adnan Sezgin. Here you go, Mr. Sezgin.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0191par0407	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as opposition, we often criticize power from this bench. Why do you do this? They're on my website, complaining. When we look at your 2011 election statement, it's clear why you don't deserve the thanks. According to your election statement, we would enter the world's top 10 economies in the 100th year of our republic in terms of the GDP size. As of the end of 2019, we're in the 19th place, so we're back. Our national income per capita would exceed $25,000. In 2019, it was announced as $9.042. It's going to get smaller in 2020, and it's going to get smaller this year, that's for sure. In your 18 years of power, there's been a bit more than twice as much income. At the same time, there were five stories in Kazakhstan, six times in Romania, and 3.5 times in Serbia. You said inflation and interest rates would be permanently reduced to low and single digits. Inflation, however, is over 14 percent. The interest rate of the Central Bank has been raised to 15 per cent. Our exports would reach $500 billion. As of November, however, our annual export was at $117 billion. In 2019, the Coronavirus was only able to reach 182 billion dollars without effect. Our export of high-tech products per kilogram is behind a lot of developing countries with $1.69. High-tech products in exports were 2.3% in our country in 2018, 13 per cent in Brazil, 21 per cent in Mexico. Our share of the world's trade will be more than 1.5 percent. You said that, but that share is still less than 1%. The size of our economy remained only about $3.1....about the two trillion-dollar goal set by power. The unemployment rate will go down to 5 per cent. You said, 12.7 per cent according to TİK figures. The reality of these figures should also be highly controversial. Non-agricultural unemployment has been 15%. The employment rate will reach 50 per cent. You said, 44 per cent remain. In 2019 it was 1.06 per cent in Israel and 3.27 per cent in Japan and 3.30 per cent in Sweden. With a population of 9 million, Israel has earmarked $16.35 billion for RD spending, while Turkey has been able to allocate $8 billion. There's also a problem with areas where RD expenditures are directed. Unfortunately, our expenses are mostly shifting to traditional areas. Our native aircraft would be in the sky, our native automobile on the roads, our native aircraft carrier on our seas. Our native plane is not in the sky, but our performance is on the ground. We have no native aircraft carriers, but our ships in the eastern Mediterranean are treated as pirates, unauthorized and unauthorized searches can be made. Our native automobile is still in the prototype phase, its engine is from Germany, its battery is from China, its technology partner for integration is from Germany, its chassis is from England, and its design is from Italy. I won't mention the disaster with the Tank Palette Factory, but in the early 2020s, we're going to build the ALTAY tank on a domestic engine, and your promise is still not fulfilled. No serious commitments have been made regarding the industry and the economy. Over the years, you've had every opportunity to run the state under complete control, you've eliminated what you call custody, you've been rid of whatever terrorist organization you've given them over the years, you've seized very large economic assets on the basis of the State of Emergency, you've started to mortgage all state institutions by building an asset fund, you haven't left it in the vault; you haven't left it in the central bank reserves; you've suppressed opposition, free press, social responses, threats; you've digested them; you've kept no room for civil society and politics; you've established a regime almost as authoritarian as much as China; and you haven't even dropped any of its goals. Dear friends, the main pillar of every developed economy is industry and technology. The failure to meet the goals I count has left Turkey behind in industry and technology, pushing out of innovative areas such as artificial intelligence and robotics, which give other economies an advantage. If we're going to talk about the Great Turkey, we must first close this gap in the order. This happens not with cosmetic measures, but with genuine structural reforms. Our private sector, yes, has been able to compete worldwide with significant knowledge and skill in some parts of the industrial field in particular. The government continues to block them with false policies, delay structural reforms and avoid the law. In order to advance in the fields of industry 4.0 and high-tech, power must be overcome by its corrupt management mentality. With the President referring to the digital economy, the digital economy doesn't go through. Members of parliament, at one time the European Union industrial sector saw Turkey as a natural part of its investment geography. There is a very opposite trend today. We need to move in the same direction with the world's dynamic economies, with the economy that generates high-velocity value; you won't be able to do it with that mentality, we know that, after the future elections, this mission will fall to us, and we know that. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Turkey has gone far back both in terms of good governance and in terms of the climate to promote, transform, and in terms of legal order, and in terms of democracy as well. Under these conditions, the industrial and technology development we need in Turkey is not possible. Our industrial structure, large facilities or SMEs, is shaped by our agreements with the European Union and the current customs union. The customs union is ultimately useful to the economy of Turkey, and in daily life, it is clearly revealed. Yes, the European Union has made major errors in itself and against Turkey, it has fallen into vision flaws, and the final decision of sanctions is part of the chain of mistakes, all sides of the curve. However, it is wrong to approach the European Union when it suits you, to abuse them and us, to replace them, to enter exploitation literature, and to defend what an important project the European Union is for Turkey when it suits you -- momentary, impulsive rhetoric and policies -- is all wrong. Let's say the mistakes of the European Union, but let's not ignore our own stumbles, what we can't do, our lack of wills, our double approach, our backward steps. The European Union, after all, is our most important market and partner. In terms of mutual interests, the European Union and its customs union must be deepened and improved. This was a very important project, unfortunately suspended. In any case, Turkey should be able to contribute to revitalising the project for deepening and development of the customs union. The obstacle is that Turkey is far from the rule of law, human rights, basic freedoms and democratic criteria. The reconstruction of these will enable the resuscitation of the new Customs Union Agreement, thus mobilising important dynamics in our economy, particularly our industry. In addition, the project of the customs union, which includes investments in the European Union, will reboot the TTIP, and with the implementation of this project, the world's largest market will emerge. In order for Turkey to improve the standards of its citizens' well-being and quality of life and the potential of its economy to improve as it should, it must, certainly and certainly, participate in this new formation as an equal entity. It's very difficult to do that with the current mentality. It is clear that this must also be done with a change in power. Dear friends, in the speech of our Ankara MP Durmus Yilmaz. I would like to mention one more issue that he highlighted regarding fixed investments in the speech of our Ankara MP the other day, which is reflected in the press today. Mr. Yilmaz said there were 23 per cent investments in machines and equipment in the third quarter growth in 2020, adding that the market was curious about where this investment came from. In 2020, there is a claim that 22 billion dollars of gold imported so far have been evaluated as part of this pen, which makes 23 percent of the machine the essence of equipment growth. Is that true? Has Turkey's economy, which has not really grown for eight quarters, been able to invest, made a constant investment of 23 per cent in this quarter, or is there another factor under this growth image? This question must be answered. Finally, I want to remind you that my country, Aydın, has been neglected for 18 years in terms of public investments and industrial investments. I remember a statement made last year by friends of the AK PARTI. In 2019, though, they had used their expressions as an investment year. As always, these promises proved to be empty again. Speaking of friends from the AK PARTY, I'm reporting that the Partners-Selçuk Iron Road Tunnel, the Yellowchay Dam, the Aydın-Sea Highway Project, and the Aydın Courthouse are the main projects we will follow. The Container Train Line Project will be on our agenda in Nazilli Organised Industry District. We'll get the Sumerbank factory working again at Nazilli.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0192par0420	On our agenda, it's all done.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0191par0421	The renovation of the road of Nazilli-Beydağ-paid land will also be on our agenda. We will also follow the Sumerian university project, which was planned to be established in Nazilli. There are no significant improvements to these investments, unfortunately.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0192par0422	We're working, we're doing it.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0191par0423	Answer me if you have to. The Enlightenment-Marine Highway Project has been tendered, but the contract is a total freak. The rule's habit of failing to keep its promises remains stable on the local plane, as in the national plane. I have no doubt that you will see the reaction of unsatisfactory promises in the first election. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0193par0427	Thank you. On behalf of the Good PARTY Group, it's Fahrettin Ridge. Here you go, Mr. Hill.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0194par0431	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I beg Allah's mercy on Captain Yasin Kurt and Specialist Oğuzhan Anar, who were first killed in a terrorist attack in Syria yesterday. My condolences to the Turkish nation. And once again, I curse the PKK terror organization from this stand. And again, today, on the 45th anniversary of death, I would like to present to you the statement of Huseyin Nihal Horseless Bey: "I can't ride in the palaces, I can't drive in the mountains, I won't change my orphan Turkishness." [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Dear lawmakers, I have made a promise to you regarding the Conium Plain Project. Our Lion Plain Project (KOP) began in 1985, reaching eight more provinces in 2016, adding four more provinces, which covers the provinces of Konya, Karaman, Niğde, Aksaray, Nevşehir, Yozgat, Çıkkale and Kırşehir. The goal of this project was to ensure economic and social development, especially in the region's watering and basic needs, and to restore sustainable economic order to the region. However, despite the fact that the KOP project was in 8 provinces, last year only $118 million was earmarked. Our objections were raised to 500 million Turkish liras this year over our reactions. What happens if you actually go up to 5 billion? The outcome will not change again because the Conium Plain Project and these eight provinces have suffered years of neglect. You know what that means, and we all know how to ignore it. I'll tell you the only measure: the population growth of our 8 counties from 2002 to 19 is only 10 percent, but in the same period, our Turkey grew by 27 percent average. So you know what that means? Eight of our provinces in the KOP region have lost 680,000 populations in the AK PARTY administration, migrating. For God's sake, I'm asking you, why did he emigrate so much? Why are these eight provinces empty? Why is Central Anatolia empty? Because you didn't invest, you didn't claim, you didn't invest in industry and infrastructure, you didn't give agriculture and feeder what it deserved, and most importantly, you didn't provide enough water for the region. Look, there are so many problems in the KOP area today that it's especially based on the Conium. This region is at the beginning of our least rainy areas, and this area needs an annual supply of extra water, 8 provinces, 8 billion cubic metres per year, but 3 billion cubic metres [3 billion cubic meters] [3 billion cubic meters] [3 billion cubic m] of] Konya. These waters are drawn out of the wells, and the valleys of Iconium are passing away, and the sinkholes of Iconium are growing exponentially. It is a pity that the line of the cones, the land of Karapınar, the land of Jahanbeyli, the Kulu, the Yunak, the Çeltic line is becoming a desert. We say: "Come, let us save this region; come, let us save our agriculture; let us bring water to this region; let us stop the migration in this inner Anatolian region." And I call on all my fellow MPs in this region: let's insist that we go against Canal KOP. No, Ranta, if there is one, there must be one. Let's say it's the ring. Let's call it service to Anadolu. Because over 5 million of our people living in this area are miserable and migrating. No agriculture, no control over the territory, no citizens. So I say: The way to stop this migration is to bring at least 8-10 billion cubic metres of water from the Tigris-Firaat line to the Conium Plain, to the Plain of Conium, to the province of Iconium, and we have the means to do so. This is what we do for one quarter of the cost of Canal İstanbul, but if you choose Canal İstanbul and Ranttan, Interior Anatolia won't forgive you, and if this project doesn't come to life, the Turkish nation won't forgive you. I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0195par0438	The order belongs to Muhammad Naci Cinisli. Here you go, Mr. Cinisli.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0196par0441	Dear President, I have made a commitment to the budgets of the Eastern Anatolia Project and the Southeastern Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration's 2021 budgets. I salute you and our beloved nation. I pray for the mercy of our heroic soldiers, our brothers and sisters, who were killed in the evenings of the evening, and for the speedy healing of our wounded. Our nation's head, our government. On this occasion, I wish God's mercy to thousands of our citizens who have died of Covid-19 disease, which almost caused mass deaths, which, unfortunately, the government did not take sufficient measures, and to our patients, I wish them all the best. I'd like to express my gratitude to our health workers who are struggling with this relentless illness in a superhuman way. The goal of regional development administrations that I've been promised is to improve the income level and quality of life by planning and implementing public investments. Public and private sector industrial investments, which are trapped inside the Marmara Region in our country, must be shared both in sustainability and in the context of competency. We need to revitalize the population in Anatolia and enrich the population, as the accumulated, overflowed investments are sprinkled into Anatolia. While planning this economic transfer, we can also build brand cities according to the sectors. On the other hand, development management cannot manage its resources. Although they have their own budgets, they currently have an operation that provides funding for other public institutions, particularly the sunken AK PARTI municipalities. In particular, such operations, which are far from the main task of the DAP Administration, are included in the Court reports. In this framework, I would like to share with you the Court statements on the transfer of unsustainable sums to the bank accounts of the unsustainable budget year; I read from the report: the East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration's investment programme for projects in 2019 budgets for capital transfers to capital transactions; a total of $114m,753,000 dollars in the year of the grant, only 21 million 465,571 euros, 191% of which can be spent, the remaining 93m,229 euros, and the 811% of which have been imposed on account of the budget's budgetary costs; in addition to the following years, the state-funded transactions have been issued, and the amount of the state-funded documents that cannot be used, and the amount of which cannot be used, has been used, except for the amount of the amount of the amount that has been used, or the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the state-respondingsponspons. In the meantime, I would like to submit to your information that the DAP Administration's budget for 2019 has been adopted as $90 million by our General Assembly, and its procedures and foundations have been raised to $126m per cent, with more than 30 per cent increased by the Minister. What could be the secret to this increase in more than $30 million that the administration had not foreseen in the budget planning of 2019? And who are the executive institutions in the Court's reports, where 81 per cent of its budget is transferred? This question is answered by the Plan and Budget Commission, at a meeting of Mr. Minister, the esteemed Erzurum MP of the EC PARTY, my dear fellow citizen İbrahim Aydemir Bey, with examples to the chairman of the GAP Administration and to the Minister. I'm reading from the reports that our Erzurum Metropolitan Municipality -- here I have -- has sent you dozens of projects. We have other municipalities - Palandöken, Yakutiye, Aziziye. They're all directed at you, and they support those institutions as much as they can afford. It's a great blessing. So I would like to make a note of them, my dear Minister. What do you say, Minister, is it possible, or is it proper? The main tasks of the DAP and GAP Regional Development Administration are not municipal funding. These are not party institutions, they are state institutions. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Congressmans, the reality of the situation is even greater. If the Court's auditors are like this in the year 2019, what are the past years? They study the practices of the past five years collectively. In 2015-2019, they find that $525m from the central budget was not spent within the year of $434m and transferred to the accounts opened. At this rate, by February 2020, $324 billion has been spent. It is also immediately noted that the results of projects that are funded by administrations are low in completion rates, given the reports. Therefore, regional development administrations are being established temporarily, but their mandates are being extended continuously. For example, the DAP Development Administration. The administration was established in 2011 with a five-year deadline. His mandate was extended until the end of 2019 because he failed to achieve his goals. The administration then had a mandate by the end of 2020 years, according to the presidential decision. Finally, a decision made by Mr. President last week was announced that the administration mandate was extended until 8 June 2021. The GAP Regional Development Administration's mandate was extended directly until the end of 2023. From here, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary, how are these dates determined? What are the reasons why the DAP Regional Development Administration's mandate has been extended for six months? Are they supposed to finish projects that have not been completed for years with an optimistic thought in six months? Or do you want to create new resources for the ruined AK PARTY through the management budgets of 2021? We'd like to know with what intent and logic the one-year budget for the six-month term extended to the institution. Dear lawmakers, since it's the district where I've been elected MP, I may be giving more examples through the head of the DAP Regional Development Administration. However, the key stone of Anatolia, the centre of East Anatolia, is deeply upsetting to every citizen who loves his country, who loves his state, that Erzurum, who has made sacrifices throughout history, cannot receive an investment worthy of the region. When I think of their loyal support for the AK PARTY, it is only natural for my dear Erzurum people to feel deceived. Their sadness is based on the limit of anger. Many of our eastern cities, such as Erzurum, who gave serious support to the AK PARTY, have been deceived, humiliated, and arrogantly said, "Sit down, don't speak."
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0197par0451	A Erzurum? All of Turkey, all of Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0196par0452	In these dark winter days, the unknown expensive natural gas that our people can't burn, the debt that the farmer owes to the unrefundable extent that he's afraid to look the family in the face.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0198par0453	30 billion invested, 30 billion.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0196par0454	You will come here, and you will tell me about Erzurum's problems, and one day we will listen; and I have not heard until now.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0198par0455	It's not done. You can't do it!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0196par0456	It doesn't, no.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0198par0457	We invested 30 billion dollars. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0196par0458	In the region, the situation of the less-fingered industrialists does not concern the AK PARTI's power and politicians; it does not concern our Erzurum as well. The situation of the hundreds of thousands of children and young ones, who have not been educated in 18 years, has not been able to build an Internet infrastructure that is more important than computer distress. In Eastern Anatolia, how do people live in negative degrees? In the absence of natural gas, such as bread, water, life is almost impossible, and in the winter of nine months East Anatolia, natural gas prices need to be reduced to a reasonable level. In my earlier proposal for the law, which has not been processed, I've advised that there should be no VATs or VATs in the area, so I'd like to ask that it be taken seriously. In this framework, rather than discussing the budgets of the institutions we're talking about, I suggest that the mindset of the main region be changed. I hope that the Eastern Anatolian region will be addressed collectively, before it's too late, with a rational state policy, and I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0199par0462	The order belongs to Mr. Imam Hussein Flitz. Here you go, Mr. Flitz.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0200par0465	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the good PARTI Group regarding the CoBI Development and Support Administration's budget, which is part of the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the High Council and the great Turkish nation. Precious lawmakers, according to TÜİK data, 99.8 per cent of all businesses, 3 million 800,000, are made up of SMEs and provide 76 per cent of the total employment. These rates and numbers show dramatically the size and location of the KOBIs in regional development, providing jobs in our country's economy. Precious lawmakers are important for simplifying legislation to open the way for sustainable production and new investments, raising qualified staff, opening new markets, developing a fair tax regime, providing support for the SMEs in developing technology and innovation capacity, growing our country's economy and increasing employment. THE COBIESTs are still struggling with many problems. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to share with you the complaints of a COBI executive. The first problem is electricity and gas prices. An average of 2 CNC counters and 1 welding machine, 100-150 square feet [100-150 m] of gas to warm a workshop, with a gas bill worth 2,000 euros, and an electric bill worth around $2,500 when the machines are fully operational. These numbers are very high, many SMEs are at a point where they can't pay these numbers. Another problem is the cost of a minimum-paying employee to the COBI. In addition to the SGK bonus the employer should pay, the net amount increases 1.5 times more to the SME when added to the salary stopage, which is too heavy for the SMEs. Dear lawmakers, another problem is the VATs at the counter. For example, the VAT is 8 per cent of the conventional tornado counter, while the VAT is 18 per cent of the CNC steep processing center. The difference between these two, one of them has a mechanism, the cutting teams are there, and there's no other difference. This must be corrected immediately. Another problem with SMEs is the cash problem, the COBIs trade 80 per cent in open accounts or checks. Due to economic distress, most of the checks are bounced. The company is forced to take the three-month check to the factoring company, and it has to pay about $3,000 for a three-month check, for example. Dear lawmakers have complained that even though many businesses have built the world's best machine, they can't get KOSGEB support for their projects without familiar, friendly, friendly projects. Evaluations should be made transparent, not to be challenged, and should be checked whether experts who study projects pay attention to neutrality and scientific principles. Dear lawmakers, as a result, the SMEs are unable to pay excessive taxes, VATs, SGKs, stopages and so on. They have to close down their businesses because of the savings. We expect the Minister and the COSGEB administration to show the necessary sensitivity to address the problems of the KOBI. Dear lawmakers, in this part of my speech, I'd like to address a few issues concerning the GAP. The Southeastern Anatolia Project, the most comprehensive, costly project in our republic's history, started in 1976 and encompassed our southeast provinces, has yet to be completed. Although a significant portion of the dams that have already been included in the Gap are finished, 1,300,000 hectares of land are still waiting for water. This is a vital issue. Despite differences between the GAP (GAP) and the region and the national development approach towards economic development at the national level, aside from the illegal domestic product per capita, Mardin, Şırnak, Adıyaman, Batman, Siirt, Diyarbakır and Şanlıurfa are less than half of the Turkish average. Unemployment remains a problem. The unemployment rate is 30.9% in Mardin, Batman, Şırnak and Siirt. Once again, we realized how important agriculture was during the epidemic. So in order for our country to meet its needs and reach the level of income that our people in the region will be comfortable with, one of our top jobs is to finish the GAP project by completing its irrigation projects, and I salute the High Assembly with regards to the well-being of the 2021 budget.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0201par0477	Thank you. Mr. Huseyin Anris... Here you go, Mr. Anres.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0202par0481	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI Group to discuss the budget of the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration -- shortly -- to welcome you all with my deepest respect. Deputies of lawmakers, Artvin, Bayburt, Giresun, Silverhouse, Army, Rize, Samsun, Tokat and Tripoli, were then added to the area of the DOKAP, including the provinces of Amasya and Çorum, according to Decision 2538, published in the Official Gazette. Dear friends, before I give this speech, I read the Court's Control Report of 2019, the Head of the Regional Development Administration of the East Black Sea Project, published in September 2020. This report states that the integrated electronic data system to ensure that the East Black Sea Region Development Administration does not have sufficient tools to carry out its duties effectively, and that sources are not being used because of a different perception of the position of DOKAP (DOPAP) in central management and organisation, which prevents effective co-ordination and co-operation between the DOCAP and executive organisations. Despite the duties imposed on the institution as shown in the Court report, the institution does not have the authority, personnel, resources, and institutional capacity to carry out these tasks. In this sense, the institution is a fuzuli chagil, which means it's in unnecessary busyness, which means it's a cashew, which means the engine is spinning for nothing. In today's DOCAP, as we call it, is an empty vessel. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to make a final statement that I would like to draw your attention to the presidents of the DOKAP Regional Development Administration. Now, look, the former president of the DOKAP, before the June 12, 2011 elections, has resigned from office to run for deputy candidate from the EC PARTY; however, he is not nominated. This time he's not being returned to CHIKUR, he's being brought back to DOCAP, and in 2012-2018 he's the head of the DOCAP Regional Development Administration; he's fine. Then, on June 24, 2018, he resigns again in the elections, and from the AK PARTI list, he becomes the 6th ordinary parliamentary candidate in Sakarya, but cannot be elected. This time it's being returned to the General Directorate of China. The 31st of March local elections are coming, and the AK PARTY resigns and is elected as mayor of Sakarya Metropolitan Mayor of ÇayKUR General Directorate, and I wish you success. ==Early life==As mayor of Sakarya Metropolitan City, the president of Sakarya is appointed to be a member of the presidential board on January 24, 2020 and (2020/45), and two watermelons -- as well as the mayor of Sakarya Metropolitan City -- from 27 January 2020. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Now, about today's DOC, the head of the Regional Development Administration. Our current president is also one of the founders of the AK PARTI Ardeshen district presidency in 2002, while he is acting as President of Ardeshen District for six and a half years. From 2009 to 2013, he served as the President of the State Department of Elections and the State Department of Rize Province. On March 31, 2014, he became Mayor of Ardeshen from the AK PARTY. However, the 2019 local elections are not nominated again. So, what happens next? On 24 October 2020, he was appointed President of the Eastern Black Sea Project as Chairman of Regional Development Administration, with a presidential decree issued in the Official Gazette. So today, this friend of ours, who was not nominated for mayor in the 2019 local elections, is being appointed to head an institution that covers 11 provinces and aims to improve these provinces. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] In final words, I'll tell Mr. Secretary that the DOC should no longer be the storage office of the AK PARTY politicians, and be delivered into proper hands. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0203par0493	The order belongs to Mr. Zeki Hakan Sedallı. Here you go, Mr. Sedal.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0204par0496	Mr. President, I'd like to begin with a request from our esteemed lawmakers. Our tradesmen are in trouble, no income, too much to go on. Businesses such as city-owned restaurants, cafes, wedding halls have suffered enormous losses due to failure to do business during the pandemic. The municipalities are asking for a discount on the rent to repair the damage they've suffered. Since the city councils have no such authority, let's go organize it here. Members of parliament, standards and regulations are the basis of the state, such as economics, law and democracy. Powers that ignore control, go around accountability, become more and more illiberal. Eighteen years of your power is fast on this road. You obviously have nothing to do with Turkish democratic standards. Apply for the Turkish Patent and Branda Foundation, another institution where we discussed the budget, and patent this democracy before it's too late. Because when we come, there won't be such a democracy, there'll be a real democracy that's missed. [[BEHIND THE GOOD PARTY (Bravo) Sound, applause]] A Constitutional Court doesn't accept decisions, but instead of correcting them when they're wrong, it changes the law and makes the wrong the law. The Public Contraction Act changes it 195 times. It creates unsupervised spaces, depending on how you feel about day-to-day decisions. For example, he establishes the Fund for Being, the MUCEV, the Tourism Promotion and Development Agency, which conceals the nation's budget from itself. Not enough, it turns the Ministry of Environment into a paper institution with Turkey's Environment Agency, which will not answer. At the point where power brings Turkey, unfortunately, there are worse answers than unanswered questions, which cannot be questioned. When we put them all under, we see a systemic failure that employs relatives. The lack of rules in terms of management has become the greatest rule. Dear lawmakers, the key element of the state is that there is no standard for appointing officers. You come to the candidates with a non-transparency interview system. You can be called coming. He has a degree in KPSS and can't even find a place on the backup list, let alone an off-standard interview. The citizens also feel the problems caused by less elective assignments. The teacher's governor, the bureaucrat's chancellor, the former deputy's ambassador, things don't work out the way they're supposed to, they can't. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] We're looking, and we don't have any standards in education. In fact, the biggest problem with our education system is that you don't have a teaching system. There's not even a program going on for almost three years straight, there's no standard curriculum. No child of ours can finish school with the system it started with. Pandemide's got an EBA, it's a celebration. Speaking of pandemics, you stayed in many areas from access to the mask until curfew was enforced. You can't even keep up with who's corona and who's not corona. You said economic stability, you released a package on the package, but it was credited, not pro bono support. Once again, the citizen has left the table hungry, where everyone pays for it. You can't explain the incentives in agriculture right after the harvest. The manufacturer can't plan what he's going to produce in the new era, you're creating a food shortage. You're not enough, you're importing during the harvest, you're punishing the manufacturer. There's no standard here either. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, how and why have we come to this day? Because of your understanding of governance and your presidential system. The righteousness of your appointment has gone away, loyalty has come; the standard has gone away, the joy has come. All of this has caused investors to lose confidence. I could lose everything with a statement published in the newspaper at midnight, and my investments could be garbage. No one who is afraid will invest. You're aware of that. So you stuck a word in your tongue that you couldn't even grasp. The solution, however, is simple, difficult for us, to you, is the rule of law, the separation of real forces, a country that is focused on the production economy, not on the joy of a center, but on its own, but in its own interests with the world. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Remember, standards and democracy can't be applied on its own, it's based on well-equipped appliances. He says we will re-enact the democracy in your power with the sun of good, and I salute the High Assembly with respect.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0205par0510	Thank you, Congressman. It's time for Mr. Ayhan Altıntaş. Here you go, Mr. Goldstone.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0206par0513	Mr. President, I'm going to discuss the budgets of the Turkish Academy of Sciences and the Turkish Space Agency on behalf of the well-funded group. I salute the General Assembly. In today's world, a country is impossible to develop without science and technology. Technology is needed to be developed for production based on processed and qualified products. The way out of Turkey, which is caught in a middle income trap and is even far behind, is that the younger generation is highly trained and active in science and technology. Even in our day-to-day jobs, we use high-tech technology. For example, the use of IT technologies became so widespread so quickly and suddenly during the Covid-19 pandemic process that nine months ago, it was unimaginably accepted. An important part of the teaching has become a normal arrangement for almost all meetings to be held online. Thanks to technology, the motto we've all learned is that life fits in the house. The Republic of Turkey, which has seen scientific and technological developments many years ago, has founded TÜBİTAK in 1963, where the government scorned the old Turkey. Look, what does the TUBITAK mission say? To increase and maintain our country's competitiveness and well-being, in cooperation with every part of society and its relevant institutions, to develop science and technology policies in line with our national priorities, to contribute to building infrastructure and tools to achieve them, to support research and development activities, and to play a leading role in creating the culture of science and technology, he says. Has this mission been met? Let's see if we've increased our country's competitiveness. In 2016, we ranked 55 percent in the World Competitiveness Index, and in 2015, we kept counting in the 52nd place, 2018 and 2019. At 2014, we ranked 56, 60, 2016, 65, and 2019, and 60. From here, we actually see that we count at the World Competitiveness Index. All of this, in fact, shows that science, technology and industry need a new strategic approach to gaining competitiveness. Have we been able to create another mission sentence, technology infrastructure and tools, and export them to the world? In 2002, the share of high-tech products, 6.2 per cent, in exports, fell to 3.9 per cent in 2015. In 2019, high-tech products were reduced to 3.62 per cent in exports. To put it in terms of the amount, $5.9 billion in exports of high-tech products is $23.6 billion. According to this, Turkey cut $17.7 billion in the high-tech product trade in 2019. So we're still importing technology from abroad. To support and conduct research and development activities, another mission sentence, consider the goal. Targets were set to increase that figure in 2015 when the GDP was 1 per cent from GDP to RD. It was intended to be 1.8 per cent in 2018 and 3 per cent in 2023, but in 2018, we fell below 1.8 per cent, let alone 1.8 per cent. Just passing your 2023 target is a dream now. Given that the average of OECD is 2.5 per cent, the average of the European Union is about 2 per cent, it seems that we have not been able to achieve half the averages of the OECD and the European Union. We've been in position for the last five years. South Korea reports 10,000 researchers with a population of 1 million, while we're still wandering around in the 2000s. Have we played a leading role in creating the latest mission line, the culture of science and technology? Partly, yes. In 18 years of power, I will not claim that science and technology did nothing. Since 1972, there have been many issues that I have found successful in this institution, where I have received scholarships and awards for many years, which have been associated with TÜBITAK (TÜBITAK) since I was 14 years old. I would say that the seven or eight years following 2005 in particular are the brightest years of TUBITAK. A few times the support for scientific research, the increase in projects and the number of researchers, the reverse of brain migration, the incentive for the industry to move towards RD. After 2013, the conjunctural, economic constraints, political impacts overstepped the integrity that led to the fallback. TÜBITAK received his share of the EC PARTY's politicalisation of institutions and on the basis of loyalty rather than righteousness. In TÜBİTAK (TÜBİTAK) and in institutions connected, some of our gifted young people were even encouraged and allowed to be delivered. Because they were used in illegal Ergenekon, Sledgehammer operations, our nation's eyeballs contributed to our army's reputation. (APPLAUSE) Then it was discovered that July 15 was a low blow attempt. What happened next? These are the people who were in charge of our country's most sensitive crypto and cosmic systems, who had to be cleaned up. Around 1,500 personnel were expelled from TÜBITAK. Of course, the institution was worn out, and there was a lack of trust. As a result of this climate of insecurity, economic difficulties, the uncertainty of internal and external political turmoil, many of our scientists and tech experts have searched abroad for their future. As long as you can't build confidence in the future of the country, the young people we've raised well will continue to look for their future abroad. There will be a serious lack of motivation among those who remain here. I think the appointments in the last two years have given us a good opportunity to turn the needle back in the positive direction. I believe that our esteemed TÜBITAK President, who I've known for 20 years in academic environments, especially at Engineering, Accredition and Evaluation Association, would succeed if we were given the opportunity to perform joint tasks. This year, in particular, a 100 per cent increase in research budgets would be a good incentive and motivation for researchers of science and technology. If it weren't for this budget increase, rising foreign currency prices would have made projects non-existent. Here are the improvements that TÜBITAK will have to make regarding project support; the criteria need to be accurate. Project support needs to start small, project support for successful teams, increase success rates. Let's give a project to every university. It would be wrong to act on reason. If you want to encourage developing universities and teachers there to do scientific studies, they can have a separate program, but competition should only be about merit. As we evaluate TÜBITAK, let's evaluate science and technology with the equivalent of our countries 50 years ago. Everyone can certainly find an element to be brought forward as an example of success, but comparisons with other countries give us a more accurate and balanced assessment. For example, countries such as Korea, Singapore, Finland have made major breakthroughs in high technology over the past 30 years, but we have failed to do so, we have been able to do nothing but protect our position. In short, we still have a lot of work to do. Honourable MPs, I'd like to briefly mention the Turkish Academy of Sciences. Unfortunately, this institution also experienced one of the politicisation moves of power. The institution's structure was replaced by a presidential decree dated July 15, 2018. It was adopted by the executive to have a say in the membership election through TÜBITAK and the SEC. The three basic principles in science are truth, freedom, and honesty. TÜBA membership must also be made according to merit and especially international assessments. Finally, I object to the decision made by the presidency, not by the law proposal to shut down the General Directorate of Aviation and Space Technologies and establish the Turkish Space Agency. Besides, this agency is unpredictable. It's been two years since it's been built, but there's been no public action. We already have a TUBITAK Institute for space technology. Satellite frequency modifications are already being made by the Information Technologies and Communications Agency as a short name for BTK. In fact, all frequencies are managed by BTK in one hand. The agency is said to be preparing a national space program, but even the website seems to be in the process of building. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0207par0527	Mr. Özkan, please.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0208par0530	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, will make the necessary statements when it comes to the speakers' speech from the stand, their assessment of the budget, their criticism of the budget. However, the EC PARTY, the 19th budget is being budgeted for the Republic Alliance and our republic's presidential government system. The budget means giving our nation's economic resources to our nation's services in the most efficient way. In this sense, when we're making comparisons, we compare some countries with China, and then we never accept the expression of an authoritarian regime as much as China. Turkey is a democratic law state.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0209par0532	We see him.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0208par0533	On the other hand, as the speakers spoke from one province in particular, we received some intense phone calls, especially our citizens from Erzurum, who had just been taken from the podium, whom Erzurum had been deceived.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0209par0534	Do you accept the rest?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0210par0535	You're starving me. What are they? What are they? People are hungry, unemployed.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0211par0537	First of all, we, the AK PARTY and the Cumhur Alliance, come to the face of our nation in a transparent manner. We make all our decisions together with our nation in their direction and in their goal. This budget, in this sense, is our nation's budget. On the other hand, our citizens of Erzurum also know very well that the inhabitants of the city know that our services there are literally the services that bring their welfare and peace to life, raising their standards.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0212par0540	I'll give you one minute, two plus one, here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0211par0541	In transportation, health, education, and in all areas, about $40 billion has reached Erzurum. In particular, our citizens of Erzurum are the crown of every citizen in the 81 provinces of Turkey. All of our fellow citizens from Erzurum, from Ovit Tunnel to the 2nd university, from infrastructure work, to the renovation of public buildings, and from the budget of our state to local government, have shown the most humility and selflessness in every election to the AK PARTİ and the Cumhur Alliance. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) On this occasion, I express our gratitude to Erzurum, and to our 81 provinces. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0212par0543	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0213par0545	Thank you. Actually, I wasn't thinking about it either, if the AK PARTY Deputy President didn't take the floor, so we could save the General Assembly's shift. Now, Mr. President, China may not seem very democratic, of course, but if there's a comparison, I'd like to compare Turkey with a few democratic countries. I'd like to make an example, a comparison or two, at this time of meeting of the minimum wage detection commission. Now, in Turkey, Mr. President, our President's salary is 30 times the minimum wage. Let's find a democratic country, like 11 times the salary of the Belgian president in Belgium.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0214par0549	They're poor!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0213par0550	Let's find another one, sir, nine times in England; let's find another one, sir, 6.9 times in Spain and 4 times the salary difference between the minimum salary and the president in Ireland. I wanted to give you this example, one. Secondly, I forgot what party a fellow speaker was talking about today, but a five-year-old gang spoke of it. I don't accept that either, Mr. President. No more five-packs...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0215par0552	Which...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0213par0553	5 plus 2 is 5 plus 2. Now, Ethem Sandzak said: "I am bound by a divine love to Erdoğan, so I can sacrifice my family, everyone." Recep Tayyip Erdogan said: "Stop sacrificing your family, and I will sacrifice Turkey to you." And Turkey is finished, and we have packed up 170 acres of land to the Sandzak family in Silivri.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0216par0555	It's a sacrifice.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0213par0557	Well, I can't take the tank palette, BMC... and the BMC to Ethem Sandzak. The price is 935 million, Ethem al. I can't take it. I'll give it to Ethem 700. Take it. Is there such a disgrace? Not enough, sir, we went to the Tank Palet... to Azerbaijan, to the Azerbaijan army, to the Inspiration Aliyev. We send our love and respect to the Azerbaijan people from here. I believe there were five deals made with Ethem Sandzak, and Azerbaijan. Is there no other businessman in this country but Ethhem Sandzak? What kind of relationship is that? What's underneath this relationship, I wonder, is that I leave it to our great nation and to our beloved Regents.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0217par0559	Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0218par0560	Mr. Dervisoglu...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0217par0561	Sir, I'd like to commend you for your bullying.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0219par0562	I didn't pick on him. There's no teasing, Mr. President, I didn't pick on you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0217par0563	If you promise Mr. Naci Cinisli according to Article 69.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0220par0564	Here you go, Mr. Cinisli.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0221par0568	Dear President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, from the speech of Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, we understand from his fancy, flashy speech that the AK PARTY thinks politics is just about winning elections. Our politics are different, and we do politics for the sake of God, for the benefit of the nation. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] I know best how to win elections in Erzurum. I know best what slanders, what embittered emotions, and what election was won.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0222par0572	How do you do it?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0221par0573	Now let me tell you about the investments. Erzurum took investments in jobs, investments in government protection between 1950 and 1960, which are they? The Tortum Hydroelectric Power Plant, the power plant that supplies Erzurum, the Ataturk University, I can say with great honor that the Democratic Party's former MP and Minister, my grandfather, Professor Rifki Burchak, founder. The meat combo, the sugar factory...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0222par0574	You're costing the family.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0221par0575	It's got nothing to do with it, I don't give it to the family, so please don't shut up and come talk to me. The sugar factory, and then the late Süleyman Demirel in the time of Ashmale Cement. There is no further investment.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0222par0576	How come there isn't one?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0223par0577	The Ovit Tunnel is enough, Ovit Tunnel.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0221par0578	If you say so, we built a jumping tower. It's been destroyed twice, you've done it three times, thanks.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0222par0580	If nothing is done, the Ovit Tunnel will suffice. We have brought the sea to Erzurum, the sea. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0224par0581	Did you bring the sea to Erzurum?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0222par0582	That's right, we brought the sea to Erzurum.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0224par0583	The sea!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0222par0584	That's right, an hour of Erzuruma sea.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0225par0585	Wait a minute, wait a minute, let's not cross-reference.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0226par0586	Today, Erzurum receives less than 1% of the national income. This is an outrage. This is a disgrace. It is shameful for a city like Erzurum to receive less than 1% of the national income. I've never seen anyone talk about gas prices around the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0227par0588	What do you mean you didn't see it? We brought the gas, we brought the gas. It's natural gas from our time.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0226par0589	Erzurum is moaning about gas prices today. He doesn't burn natural gas in his shop because it's cold, so people can burn it in his house. Please don't play with the dignity and dignity of these people.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0227par0590	All the investments came with us to Erzurum.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0226par0591	I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0228par0593	Yes, Mr. Özkan, please.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0229par0594	Erzurum's village roads are not built, nor are their garbage being picked up.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0230par0595	That's a lie! That's a lie!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0229par0596	I swear to God, it's true.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0231par0597	Mr. Tanal... Mr. Özkan, please.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0232par0601	Thank you, Mr. President. We've heard new claims about plasma production in the Tank Palet Factory and Silivri, which had nothing to do with the core of the discussion just now.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0233par0603	But all the money went there, Mr. Ozkan.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0232par0604	Look, no matter how hard you work, stop it, remember, at the time, the drones and the SIHA are slaughtering children picnics. We have heard their lies from this bench, which is the basis of the people's will. What happened? Did you stop the drone, the drone production? Zinhar.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0233par0605	Who are you talking to?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0234par0606	Who are you talking to?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0232par0607	Here is Azerbaijan, Wall Street Journal, Le Monde, all the international broadcasters of the world, and behind the victory there is Turkey's SIHA and drone technology.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0233par0609	Mr. President, who's he telling?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0232par0610	Look, we announce that when the time comes, when those tanks walk and 72 duvets line up and respect our flag, you'll forget all your lies about the Tank Palet Factory.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0233par0611	When's he gonna walk?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0235par0612	But you won't be.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0232par0613	Look, I'm telling you clearly, you'll forget all about it, but Turkey's forehead is open, head is high, and it will continue its journey with the will of God.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0235par0614	You won't see it.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0236par0615	We'll see, we'll see.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0237par0616	Here, wrap it up, one minute.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0238par0617	In particular, Turkey is making transparent investments in front of the public, with the necessary supports from our government's budget, especially in health technologies, aviation, defence technologies, software, and especially in order to get rid of the world's dependency on added goods and strategic investments, and its value is being offered in the service of our country's unity of 83 million. In this sense, you'll see tanks moving from the Tank Palet Factory -- if you write them, if you write them, if you're straight -- that's where our nation's defense technologies stand up.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0239par0618	Where's the tank?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0238par0619	We will never challenge the attempts to discredit, and we will carry this blessed journey back to tomorrow. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0240par0621	Inshallah!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0241par0622	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0242par0623	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0243par0624	My dear President...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0241par0625	I promised, I promise...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0242par0626	Mr. President, I'm standing, I have my word.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0241par0627	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0242par0629	Thank you so much, Cahit Ozkan for not accusing us of terrorism, treason, separatism and treason today.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0244par0630	Now understand what you understand.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0242par0631	They have this idea that if you're against the AK PARTY, you're terrorists; if you criticize the AK PARTY, you're traitors; if you don't vote for the EC PARTY, you're separatists; if you don't like the AK PARTY, you're normal traitors.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0245par0632	Kemal Kilicdaroglu said that that day about the teachers.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0242par0633	There's a painting like this, but I think it's the fifth day of the Cahit Özkan... of the budget for this farewell budget for the AK PARTY, people.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0246par0634	22, 23, 24, 25... no end.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0242par0635	Now, let's see him answer this: look, I have a list, your minimum wage... we have a problem with people's vaccines, jobs, hungry people, with their backs open.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0247par0637	One minute.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0242par0638	This is the difference after Turkey's minimum wage comparison with the head of state, and then there's the difference in America, and then there's the 27 times the President's salary in America, 30 in Turkey; the United States failed to pass Turkey on this; good news to Turkey, love to Turkey (Applause from CHP rows) -- after that, the closest one between minimum wage and state president's salary goes down to 10 percent in the world, with 16 percent in Germany, then down to 10 percent in the world. Friend, you've brought your budget here, you've brought an executive, you've supported the executives -- the Asgarial Price Appropriations Commission is working -- we're all the children of this nation, we're the surrogates; come out, say that Engin Altay is lying. Tell me this; what are you doing with the tank, the SIHA? (HPP clapping in rows) There's a tank... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Friends, we need to correct a false information: there is a model of a tank in Sakarya, after Qatar, after Ethhem Sandzak, after the facility. Did you not see it?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0247par0642	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0248par0643	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0247par0644	Mr. Özkan, I promise you, this is already a matter of public debate, so...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0249par0645	HDP also has a request for a statement.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0247par0646	Mr. Beştaş, do you have any demands?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0250par0647	I give up.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0247par0648	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0251par0650	Bring the tank and we'll see, Mr. Ozkan.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0252par0652	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Director of the Group probably couldn't convince his own group to go back and tell his own group about the Tank Palet Factory.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0253par0654	We're convinced.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0252par0655	It's enough for our nation to appreciate us. We rely on our nation, our nation, our support from it, we continue to make our nation's budget. Of course, the opposition may be critical, it may be objectionable, but we heard from Mr. Deputy Director again, what did he say?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0254par0656	Talk minimum wage, minimum wage.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0253par0657	Talk minimum wage.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0252par0658	He said, "No matter how well you do it, no matter how well you do it for the good of the people, we will never applaud you." What happened? Our people applauded, that's enough. [[Noises from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He continues to walk with our nation, as an understanding of the fate of the nation, whose friend, Refiki, comrade, friend, nation.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit03spe0255par0662	I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0255par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. Commission? He's in position.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0256par0004	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0255par0005	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0256par0007	Yes, my dear President, thank you very much. Now, I've reviewed the transcripts, and there's a note in our Erzurum MP Naci Bey's speech, especially with my name on it. There's a freak, there's a creep. It's this: the DAP, the East Anatolian Development Project, has found a long life and, hopefully, it's going to last a long time, and we're going to bring it back with our territory. He's taken a substantial recording of his relationship with my budget talks as if it were against him, as if it were against him, and he's expressed it to our Minister. The D.A.P. Project, East Anatolia Project, KAP subsidiary, all structures are doing this: it's sending resources to municipalities in exchange for projects. It can't be natural. Do you mean that Erzurum should not be given funds?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0255par0010	Here, I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0256par0011	Two, we invested more than 30 billion in Erzurum, 18 years, last week, our Minister of Transport arrived, making a major road between Horasan and Sarikamish. We have brought the sea to Erzurum, and I say very ambitiously, that with the Ovit Tunnel, we have brought Erzurum and the sea two hours apart. We have made Erzurum a city of health, and have made Erzurum a city of education, and have established the second university. Sir, is that enough? Not enough, Erzurum deserves much more. Let's make an effort to do this, that's what I want, but if we deny it, if we become guilty, he'll take away the blessings of the Lord. So let's say it was done, but let's ask for it. We've asked for a discount on natural gas over and over again -- here's Mr. Hiki here with me. Why not for Erzurum? The human Erzurum truly deserves them, and the AK PARTY, our President is doing them right. Our brother, Kamil Bey, was here, together with Erzurum...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0257par0014	I'll tell you something about Erzurum. Let's end it.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0258par0015	We have a law proposal in 2017, not new, but 2017.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0256par0016	We have demands, my dear President, against them.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0259par0017	You're in charge, so deal with it.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0260par0018	Erzurum is Turkey's cement. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] 1) Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Trade Ministry 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Competitive Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Helal Accreditation Agency 2019 Central Management Final Account == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account EPISODE TO PRODUCTION AND PRODUCTION OF LITTLE AND DEAD EMPLOYMENTS [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the Development and Support Administration of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2021 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Standards Institute Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent and Brand Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Patent and brand institution 2019 Central Management Final Account ISBN 0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0! [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management 2019 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Space Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Space Agency Final Account for Central Management 2019 In his favor, Husret Dinç is the speaker. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0261par0072	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of myself on the fourth round of round talks of the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. Before I begin, I salute you all. In the east, Iran heads border trade and livestock, which is neighboured by Iraq. Border trade has been interrupted since the Iraq War and livestock since 1984 by the separatist terrorist organization. We thank Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has been an example to the world by what he has done so far, for his 18 years of efforts, especially since our region has been wiped out of terrorism over the past three years. (EA/DG) Kepces were used to build infrastructure, instead of digging a hole for PKK terror organization. With the support of our state, we have re-enforced our citizens to their livelihoods, such as agriculture, livestock and trade. Mr. President, the DAP President's budget for 2021 has been set at 96,66,000 dollars. Our Ministry of Industry and Technology provided a total of 1,483 projects supported by the East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration, and a total of 739m 562,498 euros. In 2020, 228 projects were supported and a total of $84,400,000. For the 49 agricultural irrigation projects in Hakkari province, a total of $18m,322 euros were collected and 204km of canals were built and opened to water 24,000 areas. Together with these irrigation projects, 76 projects were built and spent $239,708. A total of 12 projects have been built in our districts of Yüksekova, Derecik, Çukurca, Şemdinli, and has been funded from the 3m 372,000 TL DAP presidency, including Hakkari Central on our project list of 2020. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] With Allah's permission, we will make our investments 2023 and more beautiful and more productive for further. I'd like to thank our Minister of Industry and Technology, Director General of Development Agency, DAP Administration, and employees, especially Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who encouraged and encouraged the development of East Anatolia. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 wishes it to be a blessing, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0262par0080	Now, it's up to the ministers. The first speech is from Mr. Minister of Trade Ruzar Pekcan. Here you go, Mr. Pekcan.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0263par0084	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I wish you all the best budget work in 2021, and I salute you all, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Before we begin with my words, I wish God's mercy to the martyrs we lost yesterday, his condolences to our relatives and to all our nation, and to our wounded. As the Ministry of Commerce, we are carefully pursuing our efforts to improve and improve commercial infrastructure in our country, to increase our exports value and innovation, to increase the level of technology and activity in our customs with each passing day, to protect and improve the best of our product safety and consumer rights infrastructure. In each continent of the world, 142 centers in 101 different countries, 177 counselors and attachés serve. We serve at the Central Agency with 3,959, 81 counties and border lines of 15,780, total 19.916 personnel. We view having a large organization abroad and across the country as one of our most important features. We use all of our global and local experience to evaluate our business processes to provide modern service to our business people, to our merchants, to our tradesmen, to our artists, and to our citizens. Honourable lawmakers, you all know the negative effects of Covid pandemics on global economics and trade. After World War II, we face the largest global economic recession ever observed. The OECD report, published ten days ago, envisioned that the global economy will experience a serious reduction of 4.2 per cent in 2020. The reduction in global trade is estimated by the World Trade Organization at 9.2%. In the face of this situation in global economy and trade, Turkey's economy has shown considerable resistance. Throughout the year, international organisations, such as OECD, show Turkey's economy among the countries that will at least narrow it down. Our third-quarter growth rate has confirmed this situation by 6.7%, and unlike many countries, our chances of closing the year with a positive growth have increased. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The most important factor of Turkey's resistance to the global crisis is that our country's production and export infrastructure is very solid and dynamic. Today, Turkey has the world's 13th largest economy, according to its buying power parity. This year's exports have been reduced to its true potential due to pandemics. However, I would also like to stress that our exports have increased by 33.8% in the third quarter of the year compared to the previous quarter. The European Union Commission estimates that in the last quarter of 2020, the EU economy will shrink by 6.6 per cent. Despite this decline in our most important market, our exports increased by 2.3 per cent in November to $33.4 billion. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In export, we predict that in 2020, we will be able to capture our target of the Midterm Program and even pass a little bit. According to the IMF, exports in our country will fall below it in 2020, while exports in our country are expected to decrease 11.7% of the world exports in 2020. We're talking $23.1 billion in gold imports in the first 11 months. When we separate the gold from our foreign trade as a capital tool, we need to stress that imports have dropped 3.6 per cent this year, and exports have met imports at a significant level of 85.7%. Last year, our total global exports share of 9.6 is the highest of Turkey's global export markets so far. During the January-September 2020 period, our share of total exports, as of the countries whose data was released, for the first time, rose to 1.04 per cent. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The highest share of our exports in terms of technology classification is 35.7 per cent, with medium high-tech products, with a high-tech rating rate of 39.1 per cent. Turkey, as in the past, will effectively continue its path with a valuable export increase and high growth, continuing to be one of the most dynamic actors in the global economy. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Respected lawmakers have taken serious measures, such as closing or restricting border crossings around the world, especially since March, as part of the fight against Covid. These restrictions also brought with them a significant challenge for international shipments of goods to be carried out. As Turkey, we have reacted very quickly to this situation, implementing uncontacted trade in Habur, Kapakule, Kapaköy customs doors and in our ports of Ro-Ro. We've set up some buffer zones for non-contact trade and commercial vehicles, where we've arranged for containers, dorse, driver exchanges, so that drivers don't have to cross the border. We did the same in the ports of Ro-Ro. We carried out an uncommunicated trade with Iran on the railway road. The carriages were mutually pushed away by locomotives. Thanks to these operations that we've launched quickly, we've prevented shipments from coming to a standstill, and we've provided a shipment that's close to pre-infected. Respected lawmakers, another innovative application in the pandemic process are virtual trade delegations and virtual fairs. The President's decision on Supporting Digital Actions was issued in May. In accordance with this decision, we supported virtual trade delegations and virtual fairs organised by our private sector institutions as Ministry. Even in pandemic conditions, our exporters continued to promote and market their products abroad. During the Pandemic period, 39 virtual trade delegations have been conducted for 48 countries so far, and our companies have been given about 6,000 bilateral interviews. More than 55,000 participants have been reached at eight virtual fairs so far, and five virtual fairs in the service sector have been completed with about 32,000 participants. It's a pleasure to see our exporters are in great demand for virtual activities. These events have demonstrated our country's predisposition to digitalisation in trade and have contributed to the introduction of our digital commercial infrastructure abroad. As a matter of fact, some fairs have been performed entirely with local software. Dear lawmakers, another important issue in digital economics and our priority is e-trade. This year we've opened the service, and it's a service. Gov. With the E-Trade Information Platform, accessable through the TREE address, we've established a platform of information in our country that will monitor developments in e-commerce and official data. This is where we started sharing e-trade data in our country. At the same time, about 60,000 people have benefited from training at the E-Trade Information Platform, a very important online educational environment. In addition, our applications continue under the Electronic Trade Information System and the Mark of Trust in E-ticarte. In May, June, I would like to stress that our 3.761 COBI met e-commerce in the campaign, which was carried out by the participation of all the main actors in our country's e-commerce sector. We're also doing e-commerce training for our trade and artist, and we're going to continue these trainings in the coming period. Dear lawmakers, as you know, as the Ministry of Commerce, we provide our exporters with many different qualities. Basically, it's a huge part of our budget that we provide our exporters with. In our budget for 2021, exporting state benefits have been estimated at 63 per cent. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Over the course of this year, we have actually paid about $2 billion 750 million to our exporters. In addition to our UR-Ge and HESER programs, our foreign brand supports, our TORQUALITY program, our design, design office supports, the Global Supply Chain Program, are some of the support we offer to our exporters. The application and evaluation process is conducted completely transparently, easily and effectively in terms of our exporter on-line from 1/1/2020 through the Support Management System. On the other hand, EXIMBANK continues to offer our exporter significant financing opportunities, as usual. EXIMBANK has increased by 6 per cent last year, providing $41.9 billion in financing for the same period of the year, up by 11.7 billion in loans compared to the same period last year, and has reached 71.8 per cent of the firms have reached 12.688. In difficult pandemic conditions, the number of customers and the SME within customers have been preserved and the bank has also launched three new financial products this year. Honourable lawmakers, of course, have been implemented by our government in this process, the key mechanisms of support for our business world and our tradesman and artist. In the sectors affected by the epidemic, depositor and VAT arrests have been delayed for six months, with SGK bonus payments delayed by six months; in many areas VAT has been reduced from 18 per cent to 8 per cent; in some areas it has been reduced from 8 per cent to 1. Again, as it is known, the tax, the SGO bonus, has recently been provided with the possibility of restructuring public revenues, short labour allowance and dismissal bans have been extended for another two months. Dear lawmakers, our tradesman and artist continue to be supported by 50 per cent and 100 per cent interest-cutting loans. In the past 2020 years, 962,302 tradesmen and artists, except for cycles, were given a total of $40.3 billion interest discount. The total balance of interest-cutting loans reached 66.8 billion TL. A 4.5 per cent interest rate under the Economic Stabilisation Shield Protection Package has been used by 751,721 tradesmen and artists who can be applied without paying for up to six months, totaling $18.6 billion in loans. The loan payments, which were held up by our financial difficulties trade and artist, were delayed twice in the year 2020, with a total of $5.8 billion in installments, and the number of trade credit cards set up to be extended to loans and bail co-ops, has been enabled to restructure for delayed loans, which amounted to a total of 650 million of our 30 thousand tradesmen's overdue debt, which has been set up for three months, free of payment, and can be used for a period of up to 12 months, and has reached 555,736. Under the protocol with banks, the TOBB and the room have been provided with 3 billion euros in breathing credits for 50,000 companies so far, from the source created by which the stock exchange deposits are deposited into the relevant banks. Furthermore, due to the disasters, grants have been provided to the tradesman and artist who operates in Elazig, Malatya, Adıyaman, Giresun, İzmir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] When we look at all of these benefits together, it seems that so far many tax benefits, credits and financing have been taken into action for our business and artist. Our work on our society's backbone, our tradesman and artist, will continue with support from our government. In this framework, we will continue our work in close communication and co-operation with all of our tradespeople, particularly TESK and TESKOMB. Honourable lawmakers, so far, I've been talking about activities that have been carried out or carried out, particularly in the framework of fighting pandemics. Other than that, I'd like to point out that on August 28th, we opened the very ambitious digital platform, the Easy Export Platform, to the use of our exporters. The Easy Export Platform, which can be accessed from www.kolaihrat.gov.tr, provides a comprehensive digital counselling service to our exporter using technologies such as the learning of artificial intelligence and machinery of our age. Our exporters use this digital consultant for free to receive concrete information and suggestions in the country, in the market, in the product. Our platform is the most comprehensive, most advanced, most user-friendly digital export support platform in the world compared to its counterparts. The platform has served 75,000 people from August to today. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Another important development in the future of investments is that we have implemented the model of the speciality free zone. In addition to our current free zones, which have played a significant role in quality production, the presidential decision issued in June-agüstos has opened the way for the support of companies in areas designated or determined as the presidential zones. New incentives and supports will be offered to companies that will operate in high sectors with the aim of exporting the value of integration with our regional free zones, where the bureaucracy has been reduced and a one-stop service presentation will be available. Another important decision was issued in the Official Gazette last October, when the decision on the Support of Foreign Logistical Centres was issued. Under this decision, our strategic centers abroad will be supported by the Ministry, and international logistical centres will allow the Turkish exporter to establish infrastructure that will contribute substantially to access foreign supply and distribution channels in the coming years. At the same time, these centers will facilitate the release of our country's export potential, and our country will provide significant opportunities for e-trade actors. Honourable lawmakers, another thing we care about as Ministry is expanding our export base. For the first time in 2018, our number of exporters exceeded our number of importers. During January 2020, our number of exporters increased by 3.1 per cent from the same period last year to 84.344 per cent. We started the first step programme in 81 provinces to expand our export base and make our KOBI exporters. We've done an analysis of all of Turkey, and we've identified companies that have not exported yet, despite their export potential. In order to make these companies sustainable exporters, we're going to provide them with a private mentoring service. We've located 15,770 firms in 76 counties, and in the coming period, we're going to implement this program in the entire province of 81. On the other hand, I'd like to share with you that our programme to provide education, mentoring, and writing to young entrepreneurs continues, and that our program is even shown by the International Trade Centre ▪SheTrades Outlook (the platform) among good examples of practice in the world. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The KOOP-DES, where we prioritize women's co-ops this year, has received about 13.6 million Turkish lira grants from our ministry, as part of 143 different co-ops from 27 counties so far. We see our co-operatives as important values, especially in the local area, to increase our production and exports, and we will continue to support our cooperatives.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0264par0117	You've closed the co-ops of the HDP municipalities, Mr. Secretary, not very convincing, but supporting cooperatives.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0263par0118	In terms of expanding our exporting base, we are deeply concerned about educational activities. It's the akademia we started in March. Trade. Gov. The virtual trade academy, which can be accessed from the trί address, continues to provide οon-line education and free education to our citizens from foreign trade, internal trade, οn-line. So far, 29,000 users have had access to the academy, 4,864 certificates. Honourable lawmakers, as you know, trade diplomacy is also an important aspect of our ministry's mandate, providing protection and protection of our rights from international trade law. In international trade, especially in the last two years, there has been a rise in protective policies. As a principle, Turkey favours fair, free competition on a global scale, we support the global trade system built on multilateralism. Meanwhile, in the interest of our producer and exporter, we are actively conducting our activities within the framework of international trade law, including trade policy, measures and practices, in order to look out for the rights and interests of our producer and exporter. Our country is ranked third among the members of the World Trade Organization in terms of the number of measures in place. Our trade policy measures are 25.3% of our total imports. With the pandemic beginning, the necessary measures and measures for various critical materials and equipment such as fabrics, masks, respirators, protective jumpsuits, which were especially used in mask production, have been met with no problem supplying these products. In our lawsuits at the World Trade Organization, we have recently won cases of steel products against the United States and Morocco, confirming our country's rights in the case of Thai air-conditioning. We believe that through the legal process of US steel versus tax increases in the aluminum sector, we will have positive results in the European Union's trial against our country in the pharmaceutical sector. We've also moved the measures in the import of steel from the EU, which led to injustice in the Turkish steel sector, to the World Trade Organization. During the year 2020, me and my Deputy Ministers held a total of 54 high-level meetings with the European Commission and members of the EU, I personally conducted 37 languages of these talks. In our talks, we specifically passed on their unjust protection measure in steel, the upgrade of the customs union between Turkey and the EU, and our request for financial opportunities under the European Green Covenant at Turkey's access point. The upgrade of the customs union is a matter of interest to all parties, and we will continue to care. In Brexit context, negotiations between our country and the United Kingdom on the signing of a free trade agreement have been held, in addition to the technical level of talks we've had so far, following the ongoing talks between the EU and the United Kingdom, and in this direction, we propose to sign a new trade agreement between our country and the United Kingdom. Other than the United Kingdom, Japan, Ukraine, Thailand, Indonesia, continues our free trade agreements with Indonesia; Malaysia aims to update agreements with Georgia; further negotiations with Russia on the service investment agreement continue, we signed a preferential trade agreement with Azerbaijan, and came to the signing stage with Uzbekistan. Dear lawmakers, despite physical restrictions, over the year, 64 of them face-to-face and ministers, most of them via video conferences, have held 164 high-level bilateral meetings. We held meetings with 11 countries online for the Karma Economic Commission, Economic and Trade Partnership Committee, and held 13 talks with our border neighbours in the area of co-operation in customs. We also carried out important activities online with the broad participation of business people from foreign ministers, such as the joint conference with the United States, the South Korean Business Investment Forum, the African countries, the Turkish-Africa Economics and Business Investment Forum. Our infrastructure in customs, our activity in customs processes is critical to the development of our foreign trade. This year, we have completed renovation studies on our customs at Kapatkule, Hamzabeyli, Öncepınar Customs Doors; we finish modernisation of Habur, Ipsala Customs Doors in 2021. We begin studies on Georgian, Turkish Eye, Turkale. In addition to infrastructure investments, we continue our work on developing digitalization, national technology opportunities. We're continuing electronically transmitting documents that are necessary for foreign trade and material. We've raised our number of documents to 187, our number of electronic documents to 159. The authorized obligation has risen to 534, and these companies have carried out 34 per cent of our total imports and 29 per cent of our exports. We were able to electronically edit the First Evidence Circumstance Documents. Customs guide, customs tariff search engine, GET-APP, SHIP, we've facilitated the work of all actors, citizens of our digital apps. We are implementing national scans and X-ray projects through co-works with Defence Industry and TÜBITAK. As part of our Data Mining Programme for Integrated Data Analytics, we have increased the selectiveness of our risk analysis efforts. We've completed two phases of the work of the Data Analytic Center for Perfection, and we're aiming to complete it as soon as possible. The sale of goods and vehicles that have been purged in our customs is a tender for the participation of all our citizens. Gov. It is continuing to be done from a mobile application at the troy. Over the past 11 months, we've had a 19 per cent increase in car sales over the past year, and a 27 per cent increase in goods sales, and 112 million in revenues. Our fight against smuggling is decisive. As we plan our operations in this fight, we're taking advantage of software based on the risk-analyzing methods that I've just mentioned in addition to national, international intelligence. In 2020, we conducted eight international operations and seized 8.2 tonnes of drugs, 1.879 tonnes of fuel in 260 operations, with a record of 3. And the other contraband costs 3.7 billion. Honourable lawmakers, as you know, we are contributing to the Co-ordination Board of Investment Environment in our Vice President's Riyaset for improving the business and investment climate in our country, and we have reached the 33rd ranking position in the World Bank Doing Business Index in the last two years, raising 27 steps in the last two years. The number of companies established in our country increased by 22 per cent over the past 11 months, while the number of companies closing has increased 10.6 per cent. The tradesman's place of business was 238,416 at 2019, leaving 114.977 this year with 336,529 registrations, 86,499 leaving in 11 months. In 2021, we aim to implement the system that will allow the bonds to be edited electronically, to be put into cambio operations. As you know, real estate is the infrastructure of gallery operations being built by businesses with only authority. We've activated a secure payment system that allows car ownership to be replaced simultaneously at the price of car sales. As of January 1, 2020, we made it mandatory for the broker to implement e-fatura, e-irsalia, e-masteral receipts for the vegetable fruit trade. We're continuing our work on the licensed stock market. There have been 460,000 applications on the protection of the consumer and on mobile consumers, and 50 per cent of them have been applied by e-state to 544,000 consumer arbitration committees, 59 per cent of them in favour of consumers. Over the course of this year, changes in regulations such as post-sale services, warranty, introduction manuals have expanded the consumer's protection field. It's a service for our citizens to access the information of the authorized services in an easy and secure manner. Gov. The tr address has been opened. The Unfair Price Evaluation Board, the Ads Board, has made sanctions against excessive price increases, hoarding, misleading practices against consumers. A regulation has been issued for the sale of new products guaranteed and certified to be sold to the economy by renovating second-hand mobile phones and tablets. Renovated products will reduce waste and imports. On 12 March, there were significant innovations in the monitoring of companies, product responsibility compensation, the recall of products from consumers, strengthening the image of Turkish property in exports, e-trade issues. In 2020, the Hellal Acreditation Agency received 33 Akreditation applications from 15 different countries, with the completion of the Akreditation procedures of 4°, 538 helal documents included acreditation, and the results of 3 applications came to the final stage. In this way, healing documents against billions of dollars of products have been provided, and their work has continued to increase. Before I complete my speech, I would like to stress this: certain changes and transformations will occur in the global economy, especially in global supply chains, because of the pandemic. In the coming process, Turkey has the power and potential to move ahead in global value chains, using its advantages, such as geographical proximity to key markets, qualified labor force, competitiveness, international norms and standards. We believe that by taking advantage of new opportunities in the fields of investment and trade, we can become even more decisive actors in global value chains and move forward with strength. As the Ministry of Commerce, we will continue our efforts and efforts in cooperation with all our private sectors and relevant institutions. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, the budget for 2021 is 6 billion 585 million and 834,000 TL to be used for the purpose and activities of our Ministry of Commerce. $4.1 billion of this has been earmarked for the support of 63.2% of our exporters. The funds reserved for our ministry will be used with activity to provide more quality service to all our shareholders and citizens, as we reach our goals. I wish our ministry's budget to be well-funded, and I salute our great House, all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0265par0143	Mr. Secretary, the interim 6th item...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0266par0144	Mr. Secretary, the co-ops...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0263par0145	Our Ministry has no authority to close the co-operatives. Cooperatives can only self-determinate by deciding their own co-op boards.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0266par0146	The trustees have closed, Mr. Secretary, you're defending the co-ops, the trustees are closing.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0263par0147	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0267par0149	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. It is now up to Mr. Mustafa Varank, Minister of Industry and Technology. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0268par0153	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have been promised budgetary negotiations by our Ministry of Industry and Technology. I hereby extend my love and respect to the esteemed members of our Veteran Assembly, our beloved nation, who are watching us on their screens. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I hope the 2021 budget talks will be good luck for our country. At the very beginning of my words, two of our soldiers who were killed yesterday by the PKK/PYD terror organization ask Allah's mercy, and I ask his family's patience, our nation's condolences. Honourable lawmakers are going through a period of global crisis where the world has not recently experienced a similar one. The epidemic upsets the economic balance of the countries through production and consumption channels, which have collapsed in addition to its effects on human health. International organisations expect the most serious recession of the last 60 years in global growth, trade and direct investments. The state of the service sector, especially tourism, is clear all over the world. I don't mean to lead you and those watching us on the screens to pessimism, but to emphasize that we're going through extraordinary times. Well, isn't there a silver lining? Of course I do. Every step that succeeds in vaccines and treatments will actually take us to a very fast global recovery, and we can see the most remarkable global economic performance in recent years, as a result of the delayed demand in the event of this scenario. Of course, all these developments affect Turkey's economy. We successfully managed this period because of our industry, which quickly adapts to changes. A 6.7 per cent growth occurred in the third quarter as a result of normalisation steps. The happy side in this performance is a 22.5 per cent increase in investments. When we look at the bottom pencils of the investment, we see a 23.5 per cent increase in machine equipment; construction investments are up 14.7 per cent. The vanguard indicators for the fourth quarter indicate a slight slowdown compared to the third quarter, but we can see that this acceleration continues without slowing down on the investment front. I've been following the General Assembly meetings very carefully from day one, and I'm taking note of constructive criticism. Indeed, there are talks that I find difficult to understand, and there are speakers who claim that in 18 years there was not a single factory. Give me a break. The numbers are as clear as day. In January-November alone, 851 new factories began production in organised industrial areas. 13.546 manufacturing facilities began production by registering in the Industrial Register Documentary System. As of today, the construction of 4,069 facilities in industrial areas continues. (EA/DG) This is the real picture that opposition lawmakers who are talking here do not want to see, even if they see it, they don't want to accept it. I'm not going to throw out a roll of paper with big punch and plenty of space, like my hometown did just now.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0269par0161	Here you go, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0268par0162	If our President's vision for 18 years...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0269par0163	You guys do it. Don't tell stories!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0268par0164	...if we talk about what we've done, there's not enough of that, there's not enough data centers.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0270par0166	(Terabytes are not enough!)
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0268par0167	I suggest to my hometown that he update himself as soon as possible, go digital.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0271par0169	You go ahead! We don't need advice. We understand the digital, but it's not digital to tell you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0268par0170	I won't tell you about the Nuri Killigils, the factories that the CHP shut down, the projects that the CHP sabotaged.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0272par0171	Name one, name one!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0268par0172	It's not enough. It's not enough. It's not enough.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0272par0174	Name one!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0268par0175	I'm going to be concrete, unlike all of you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0273par0176	The corruption you've committed, the irregularities you've committed...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0274par0177	Give me an example.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0268par0178	See, in the last two years alone, the first and only industrial enzyme factory in the Middle East and North Africa...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0273par0179	People are hungry back home. I don't want this people's money...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0268par0181	Mr. President, Mr. President, we come here once a year, we have a speech, please remind the hall of democratic procedures.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0273par0182	No polemics! It doesn't work with words like that.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0275par0183	Yes, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0276par0185	See, in the last two years alone, the first and only industrial enzyme factory of the Middle East and North Africa... the largest integrated and intelligent compressor factory under the one roof of Europe...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0277par0186	When we built those factories, we did it without borrowing $1, $1.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0278par0187	Did you do it? Did you do it?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0277par0188	You've raised the country's debt five times!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0279par0189	Turkey's first aluminum hybrid engine factory...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0278par0190	Did you do all that? Did you do it?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0279par0191	Turkey's largest lighting plant...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0280par0192	One day a month you come in here...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0279par0193	I personally opened the world's third largest operating facility.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0281par0195	Did you do it?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0279par0196	Along with these, we'll be able to secure our country's first medical feeding plant...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0282par0197	Read it, learn it!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0279par0198	...the largest glue and glue factory in the Middle East and Europe...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0283par0200	Learn to listen!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0284par0201	Wait a minute, Mr. Secretary, wait a minute...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0285par0203	You can't do that! This is the Minister speaking.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0286par0204	The AKP MPs won't talk, Mr. Minister!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0284par0205	Mr. Secretary, just a moment... Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0287par0207	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0284par0208	Just a minute, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0288par0209	Mr. Secretary is picking on me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0284par0210	Ahmet Bey, wait a minute.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0289par0211	You're picking on me when you're talking!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0288par0212	Why is he picking on us, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0284par0213	Congressmans, friends... gentlemen, deputies, friends... [[Noises]] Congressmans, if you don't respect us, we don't respect you, which is an insult to the Turkish nation. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Thus, he receives notes from the Republican People's Party's highly experienced Deputy Director of the Group. There's no use making promises, no use talking to each other, no use to people. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0290par0220	Mr. President, no speaker here has ever been interrupted like this.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0291par0221	Mr. President, we're going to continue this attitude from this angle, Mr. President, in the new system...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0290par0222	Please, once a year, let them come to that stand and respect a member of the executive, an sworn member of the executive.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0292par0224	Wait a minute, I'll give you a heads-up. Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0293par0226	Mr. Secretary, if he continues to behave like this, we'll use our Civil Code-based rights. We just heard from a respected minister. Mr. Secretary here asks for support for his budget, tells him what he's doing, tells him what he's doing, responds to criticism. The Minister is not elected. I can't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0292par0228	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0294par0229	I myself laid the foundations of the largest glue and glue factory in the Middle East and Europe, the first zinc islabe facility in Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0293par0231	Okay, do it.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0294par0232	You don't believe any of this? Let's take you to the field, get some OSB air, get the industrialist's pulse, the manufacturer's pulse, let's keep it together.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0295par0233	We're not getting out of there, we're not getting out of there. Get out of the palaces and go there.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0296par0234	Don't shout!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0294par0235	Of course, we don't call everything a rose. We see what's missing and what's missing, but because of the factories you've ignored, export records are being broken in this country.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0297par0236	You can't say it was me who did it with people's property.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0294par0237	No doubt it will also reflect employment rates in the coming period. May our nation be blessed...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0298par0238	You're welcome, of course. You put people's money abroad.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0294par0239	We'll follow the tracks, we'll eliminate the vulnerability, we'll implement policies in a much stronger way in the new era that meets expectations. As economic management, with a reformist vision, we will make Turkey the winner of the post-infected era.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0299par0240	You've finished the resources of this country, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0294par0241	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we've had some major successes in the production industry sub-industrial sectors this year. Our machine industry has broken the October record of republican history with $1.7 billion in exports. (AK PARTY applause) The steel industry left Germany behind in the first ten months of the year, raising it to the first place in Europe, to the seventh in the world, to the seventh in the world.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0300par0242	What public values are being sold in 18 years?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0294par0243	In the last three months alone, we have the pride of getting the first products in the liquid stainless steel and ingot zinc that have never been produced in our country. Our shipbuilding industry has gained the ability to meet all possible demands in the world, especially full electric and hybrid ships.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0301par0244	People say we're hungry. He commits suicide. He's telling a story.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0294par0245	With the help of many local suppliers, we proudly put together the first national electric train set produced at the TUVASAS factory, and the tests continue.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0302par0246	Mr. Secretary, name one product produced in Turkey, all imported.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0294par0247	Of course we're not gonna settle for that. With our vision of national technology, powerful industry, we will raise the welfare of our nation by investigating our ability to produce in every field. The Turkish industry is capable of producing all kinds of products, but its dependence on imports is a structural problem.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0303par0249	In spite of you. We did it in spite of you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0294par0250	We have been determined to launch the Technology - Focused Industrial Movement Programme. As a result of our detailed analysis, we've created lists of products that we can produce in Turkey, which will give us competitiveness, and we've decided to support 20 projects with a meticulous assessment of the machine sector that we've been calling for in the first phase. Servo engines, CNC countertops, robots, adding manufacturing machines, and many more high-tech products will be produced locally and nationally through the motion program.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0304par0251	In 18 years...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0294par0252	Pretty soon, we're going to be with the contractors who want to create added value with a support mechanism that we've designed from the end, which will be called into other high-tech sectors such as chemistry, pharmaceuticals, medicine, medical equipment, transportation and electronics. Economic security is another area that we're sensitive to. We've established the Industrialization Executive Committee to determine the highest levels of policies that will help develop domestic production and technological capabilities. We will make decisions on this committee that will boost our international competitiveness, along with the ministers involved in our President's presidency. We're going to scale our industry by using the public procurement chip to diversify valuable products, particularly products to add our product scale. Dear MPs, we presented Turkey's Automobile to our nation's approval, laid the foundations of our factory.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0305par0256	What are you talking about, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0306par0257	We need a plane, Mr. Secretary, a plane.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0294par0258	I keep telling you, and I'm gonna keep telling you, the Turkey Automobile Project has a vision far beyond making a car. The TOGG became Turkey's pride during this period when automobiles were no longer just transportation and became electrical autonomous networks and intelligent devices. You know, there's also been a collaboration for the production of batteries. Of course, the co-operation here will not only lead to the automobile sector, but also to much more advanced points in the energy storage systems. In particular, these vehicles can also be used in homes to store energy, as electric vehicles become widespread. In contrast, Turkey's Automobile encourages brain migration in a serious sense. Our young engineers, programmers, executives with global experience left their jobs abroad and returned to their homeland for the Auto of Turkey. Sadly, there are those who have been making a mockery of themselves in order to disregard this effort and self - sacrifice and apply themselves to Turkey's Automobile Project. This piece of TOGOG is taken from here, this piece is taken from here. They display their ignorance, as they say.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0307par0260	So where does it come from?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0294par0261	If you ask them, what is the right to intellectual property? They don't know.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0307par0263	We do.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0308par0264	We know better than you do, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0294par0265	In fact, we're no stranger to this situation. You know, they were making a fuss about the fact that the engine was not local for our terrorists.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0309par0267	Know your place, your place!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0310par0268	Wait a minute... wait a minute... Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0309par0270	Talk decently, talk decently!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0311par0272	Sit down, sit down!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0309par0273	They don't know. What does that mean? Who are you!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0312par0274	You can't say who you are!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0313par0275	Congressmans, wait a minute...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0314par0276	Easy, easy, easy. Why are you getting excited? Everyone's talking here. Why are you getting excited?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0313par0278	Wait a minute... wait a minute...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0315par0279	Mr. Secretary, go ahead...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0316par0280	You can't tell the elected deputies of the nation that you don't know.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0313par0281	Congressmans, wait a minute... wait a minute...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0317par0282	You're lying, and they don't know.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0313par0283	Wait a minute... wait a minute...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0317par0284	Mr. President, in the new system, the Minister comes to the House asking for a budget, he can't discipline people.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0318par0285	Mr. Secretary, go ahead...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0317par0286	They don't know. What does that mean? That's what he says, that's what he can't say! [[He also sings from the AK PARTY.]] I'm sorry! Mr. Muhammad, you tell me, he can't! You should know your place!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0319par0291	I know my place, you know your place! I know my place.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0317par0293	You'll have to behave!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0319par0294	Everyone's watching, everyone's watching, who doesn't know their manners here.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0320par0296	Just a minute, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0317par0297	No one called me that here.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0321par0298	There's no such thing. People have agreed, people.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0320par0299	Congressmans, wait a minute...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0322par0300	Mr. Secretary, five ministers came here, none of them did what you did.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0323par0301	That's my style.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0320par0302	Mr. Secretary, just a minute... [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP rows]] Gentlemen, members of the law...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0324par0305	Mr. Secretary, go ahead...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0320par0306	Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0325par0307	What, are you gonna beat us up?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0326par0308	It's always the same story, come on!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0320par0309	Wait a minute, members of lawmakers, shouting this out. You can't.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0326par0310	You always do the same thing. No way!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0320par0311	Wait a minute... there's no stopping the Minister from speaking on the stand. But I'm saying one thing.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0326par0312	People have agreed, people. Those ministers swore here.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0320par0313	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, would you please shut up? Mr. Secretary, just a minute...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0326par0315	With the president's blessing, he became Minister.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0320par0316	Hey, buddy, Amasya MP, shut up, bro! Yeah, shut up, will you?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0326par0317	Mr. President, it's been the same thing for a week!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0327par0318	Mr. President, that's not right!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0320par0319	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0328par0320	Mr. Engin, put your mask on.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0327par0321	And you did the Ministry, did you ever give such a nasty speech?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0320par0322	Mr. Secretary, you address the House. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0329par0324	You know, for our terrorists, the RlA is not local. They were making a fuss about it. I'm going to be very clear with you, this attitude is too shallow.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0330par0326	You're taking your other products.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0331par0327	Why are you interfering, brother?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0329par0328	I want to show you a striking example right here. This is an electronic control unit, used in Mercedes trucks. One of our companies developed, produced, and sold this electronic control unit to Mercedes. This Turkish product is used in Mercedes trucks. Have you witnessed such an argument in other countries?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0332par0329	There are no liars like you, no one is more corrupt than you!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0329par0330	For example, did you ever hear the German Parliament say, "Mercedes trucks use Turkish products, Mercedes is not domestic or national, Mercedes is not German?" You can't hear it.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0333par0331	If we're wrong, we're as...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0334par0332	The Germans made the Mercedes, did you do it?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0329par0333	You can't see that kind of behavior anywhere in the world, but you can hear it from the opposition in Turkey every day because they're production illiterates, production.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0335par0335	You're lying!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0329par0336	They're the ones who tried to underestimate our country in the nation's Assembly, saying "Motor, engine."
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0336par0337	Minister, this doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0329par0338	Yeah, that's the best answer our engineers have. See, 10 different national motors have been developed in the last seven years alone.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0337par0339	You can't call us product ignoramus!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0336par0340	You can't call it production ignorance!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0329par0341	Just last week, we handed over the first national helicopter engine produced by TEI. (CHP rows) We're developing not only the sea, the air, the land, but also the spacecraft's engines.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0338par0343	You'd think he'd gone to Mars.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0329par0344	I'm proud to say, we've developed the hall-effective impulse engine that allows satellites to maneuver in our space institute. (CHP rows) We're going to use this impulse system on the TKSAT 6A communications satellite, one of the few countries that can do that. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the industrial areas of our country's investment base, are growing Turkey's economy with environmentally friendly production. With 11 OSBs established in 2020, the total number of OSBs reached 325, while the number of industrial sites we provided loan support reached 480. We've been able to employ about 2.5 million of our citizens in these areas that are being produced. As of the end of the year, we will complete three industrial sites with 13 OSBs, and in 2021 with 19 OSB and 6 industrial sites. The number of our industrial districts has reached 22,000, and the employment in these areas has reached 13,000. Of course, I can't get past the point here: Just last week, our investment agenda was tried to sabotage by a distortion by CHP lawmakers.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0339par0348	What's wrong with CHP?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0329par0349	After years of fighting to find investors in the Filyos region, a radical firm has decided to invest in this region. On the basis of our Supreme Assembly's Law on Industrial Territories, we've established the appointment of executives to the Filios industrial region, but they've tried to create a perception that it's as if it's an illegal procedure, as if someone's being given a job free of contract. Our Zonguldak deputies are here, they know the process from beginning to end. That area is a witness to our struggle to attract investors in that area. Now, as Minister of Industry, I complain to our nation about this anti-investigative mentality from the bench of our Parliament.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0340par0352	Dirty!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0341par0353	You're not sick of selling the country!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0329par0354	It's nothing more than an assassination of reputation, lying, slandering, assaulting an investment in a critical sector that will produce, reduce our current deficit, create employment.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0341par0356	You're the liar!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0342par0357	You're the liar!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0329par0358	See, in eight years, we've invested in 2.745 investments. In the last two years, 1.265 investments in OSBs using ministry loans have benefited entirely or partially from the allocation of free land.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0342par0359	A minister can't talk like that!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0329par0360	We don't discriminate against any investors who apply, we give these supports to anyone who provides the conditions, but the opposition is always trying to frame investors and us with false information. [[Applause from the AK PARTY lines; noise from CHP rows, constant banging on rows]] We'll take the night into our day to find investors, eliminate all obstacles from red tape to land.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0343par0364	Go ahead, go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0329par0365	But someone's going to attack these investors for their dirty politics, and we're going to shut up and wait for that kind of...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0343par0367	Go ahead, Mr. Secretary, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0329par0368	Nobody's sorry, we don't feed our investor to anyone.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0344par0370	Shame! They're kids, I swear.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0329par0371	How do I speak, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0345par0372	Mr. Altay, I understand what you're trying to do, but I assure you...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0346par0373	Tell the Minister, the Minister.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0347par0374	Understand what the Minister wants to do, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0345par0375	Look, let me tell you something sincere, you're gonna have to...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0346par0376	He'll speak with decency!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0345par0377	Congressman...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0348par0378	Please understand what the Minister wants to do.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0345par0379	Look, you guys watch yourselves on TV, you're gonna be so upset.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0349par0380	We won't be sad, he will be.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0345par0381	I'm telling you, don't do it, so...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0349par0382	He'll be sorry!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0345par0383	I beg you very much...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0350par0384	Let's see what the Minister wants to do.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0345par0385	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0351par0387	You're being rude.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0345par0388	Now, what's he going to think of this protest you're doing while he's watching at the citizen's house right now? [[Noises from CHP rows, constantly knocking on rows]] Mr. Secretary, address the House.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0352par0391	No matter who sweats for Turkey, we carry it on our backs. As a matter of fact, there are active politicians in opposition parties among the producers, investors I have supported, many times, whose names I proudly mention on every platform, including CHP people.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0353par0393	He'll be as stoned as the CHP!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0352par0394	Have you ever visited these firms? I don't think so. You have no idea how hard it is to produce, create employment, and sacrifice. If there was, we'd be like...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0354par0396	Boo, boo, boo!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0355par0397	Boo you! This isn't the Ministry, this is Parliament, you will respect this place!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0352par0398	I respect our High Council.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0355par0399	You're going to speak decently!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0352par0400	Democracy is about learning to listen first.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0355par0402	Take a break, take a break...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0356par0403	Congressmans, if you burn the world, I won't stop it. Go ahead. Of course!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0352par0405	You have no idea how hard it is to produce, how hard it is to create employment, how hard it is to sacrifice. If there were, you'd protect and protect every investor, whether local or foreign, which makes our country worth adding and employment, just like we do. But you say, "No country, no country." You keep the country's agenda and steal from this country's energy. (ARK PARTI places the sound of the voices, applause; from CHP rows.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0355par0406	We are enemies of thieves, thieves. We are enemies of thieves, not capital. Your capital is a five-way gang.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0352par0407	But there's only one political understanding in Turkey, which, unfortunately, is a constant capital fascistism, according to its race, language, religion, identity.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0357par0409	We're against bribes, bribes!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0352par0410	But that's normal, if you're voting for us, you're a teacher, but if you're voting for the Cumhur Alliance, you're not a teacher. If there's a fascist President who says, "It's normal."
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0358par0412	You're the fascist, you're the fascist!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0352par0413	Don't worry, we'll train against you. Despite everything, we work hard, especially in spite of opposition, to make Turkey the center of attraction to investments.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0358par0415	Dirty! If you're gonna play politics, be a congressman. Mr. President, shame on you!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0359par0416	Go ahead, go ahead, Mr. Secretary, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0352par0417	Mr. President, we're implementing policies that will pave the way for investors. We're constantly improving our investment incentive system with feedback from the field. Starting in January, we begin implementing the county-based regional incentive system, which has been expected for years. [[Out of the CHP rows, out of the rows! The noise, the noise, the constant banging on the row doors.]] You must have thought of that when you threw the headscarves out of here.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0360par0421	Don't be rude!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0352par0422	At this point, I'd like to say that those who say that we don't encourage any sector other than the defense industry will find out. Only one percent of the 47,285 incentives we've edited belong to the defence industry. We're also strengthening our country's capacity for RD and innovation. With our President's vision, the Ecosystem of RD and Innovation, which we built from scratch, is now at its brightest. The number of R&D and design centers in our country has reached 1,611. The number of staff working at these centers has reached 74,000. In our 87 techno park, nearly 7,000 companies are doing innovative work. We proudly bear witness to the worldwide success of our young entrepreneurs in techno parks. Here are the seeds of Peak Games, the first of Turkey's 1.8 billion-dollar values, in a techno park. [[Constantly knocking on desks from CHP rows]] The Honorable President...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0361par0425	Keep going, keep going, keep going.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0352par0426	But my voice is getting hoarse.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0362par0427	Minister, don't stop. Keep going.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0361par0428	Congressmans, I'm transmitting information from the technical staff of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: you're damaging the system right now. Don't do it. Look, in a moment, Engin Altay... Wait a minute, wait a minute... Will you guys shut up? [[AK PARTY and MHP rows; CHP rows of noise, constantly knocking on rows]] Congressmans, in a moment, Engin Altay will come out and answer. So it's not right what you're doing. It will continue even if you destroy it. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0363par0432	Again, Turkey's largest game development company operates in the techno park. Our local ICU ventilator is another techno-park product. Just moments ago, Mr. Garo Paylan appeared on this bench, unable to bring the Western, supposedly free, large ecosystem into the sky. What is it? In Germany, vaccines were produced, vaccines were produced in the United States; SIHA, tanks, rifles were produced in Turkey. Imperialist Western admiration is so overwhelming that he doesn't even realize that the countries he's paradigming have the largest weapons industry in the world. [[From the AK PARTY lines, the voices of Bravo (Bravo) applaud; the constant banging of the CHP's ranks to the front of the doors]] I'm asking now, why does Germany come out and make tanks? Do you ask why America produces SIHA? No, you don't, but when it comes to Turkish SIHAs, you suddenly become anti-emperical, thinking of your socialistism. Now I ask you: Are you troubled by the SIHA, because he has stopped the 30 years of occupation in Mount Karabağ, and because he has protected our Azerbaijan brothers? [[From the AK PARTY lines, the voices of Bravo (Bravo) applaud; the constant banging of the CHP's ranks to the front of the doors]] Are you worried about the SIHA because he's been dropping bombs on terrorists in the terror corridor that we're trying to set up on our border? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Are you worried about the SIHA because it makes our flag soar with pride in the sky? [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] If so, you can continue to feel uncomfortable.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0364par0442	You're the Secretary of Defense!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0365par0443	You will not cover up your theft!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0363par0444	Look, you can't separate technology itself from human benefit/harm.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0364par0445	You must think you're the Chief of Staff!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0363par0446	If you're suppressing a persecution, if you're using it to defend your country, that technology is for the benefit of humanity.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0364par0447	Don't look at us, don't look at us. You can't look at us like this!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0363par0448	The engineering skills we've acquired in our defense industry are not actually used in SIHAs alone. Here's our ICU ventilator. Our ministry, founded with support from the ministry, started again in the ministry's co-ordination of the three companies, which produced this device. What companies are these? Mr. BAYKAR is a defense industry; ASELSAN is a defense industry; Arcelik is a technology company, but the conglomerate has a defense industry. Those Western countries that you admire for the ventilator are all over the place. The President of the United States sent instructions from Twitter to the industrialists to produce this device. The famous Elon Musk said, "I'll produce it." He couldn't, so he went and bought it from China. So what did we do? In 14 days, we've brought this device to mass production stage. [[From the AK PARTY lines, the voices of Bravo (Bravo) applaud; the constant banging of the CHP's ranks to the front of the doors]] Look, this photo is a very valuable photograph. The young people you see here, the executives of these companies, they've only been sleeping two hours, three hours a day for a month, producing these devices. It's not just the budget, it's the money, it's the heart, it's the heart! [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] We not only met our needs with this device, we exported 5,000 devices. In Africa, we sent these devices to countries without a single respirator. Did you say that Turkey did what the world didn't do? You didn't. Those Western countries you admired didn't even look at Africa.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0366par0455	You made Turkey lie, lie! You made the Republic of Turkey lie, you made the state lie!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0363par0456	But we, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan of our President's vision of crossing continents, have breathed into the world, and we will continue to be. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Dear lawmakers, we're closely monitoring the rapid transformation of technology, and we're setting up our policies accordingly. [[Noises from CHP rows, constantly knocking on rows]] I really expect you to absorb a little democracy. A speaker can't be silenced like that, everyone's watching.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0367par0462	What do you know about democracy? You don't know the meaning of democracy!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0363par0463	We made the official opening of the Fourth Industrial Revolution Center yesterday, which would contribute to the digital transformation of our industry. In our modern factories, we speed up the simple production and digital transformation of our businesses, especially our SMEs. After Ankara and Bursa, we opened modern factories in İzmir, Gaziantep, Mersin, Konya and Kayseri. In companies that receive education and advice from modern factories, we see high levels of efficiency as before. We also care about young people taking advantage of modern factories. With our training, you allow young people to experience the industrial environment as well as to become aware of the digital transformation. [[Noises from CHP and HDP rows, constantly knocking on rows]] You know, artificial intelligence has a huge power of influence that cuts through all the fields. With a new collaboration at the Artificial Intelligence Institute, which we have established within the TUBITAK, we have also created a new model. Our institute guides the private sector, allowing skilled researchers in artificial intelligence to join forces. [[Noises from CHP and HDP rows, constantly knocking on rows]] In order to develop the software ecosystem, we formed the Turkish Open Source Platform, together with the largest RD firms in our country. We're opening two new software schools that embrace innovative training models under the roof of this platform. We're conducting the most comprehensive Smart City Project in Turkey, which will speak of itself globally. This project will allow local and national technologies to be developed and tested in smart city applications. [[Noises from CHP and HDP rows, constantly knocking on rows]] We see enterprise as the riveting force of the national technology move. We care about technology-based initiatives to solve long-term financing problems through capital investment instead of banks. To that end, we have activated innovative financing mechanisms. Tech-InvesTR, Regional Development Fund, Technology and Innovation Fund and the I.T. Valley Initiative Investment Fund will invest in early-stage initiatives. [[Noises from CHP and HDP rows, constantly knocking on rows]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0368par0472	Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0363par0473	Millions have been spent on renovating these lines from our government's budget. May our nation please observe how these lines are destroyed.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0369par0475	Know your place, your place!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0370par0476	Don't confuse it with the palace.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0363par0477	Millions were spent, millions were spent. AHMET KAYA (Trabzon) Tell the palace and the palace.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0370par0479	Tell me the palace.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0363par0480	Our country's most valuable asset is our source of information. In our 30 counties, we've also implemented the TRYAP Tech Workshops, which will be the driving force of the national technology movement. From Edirne to Hakkari, from İstanbul to Ağrı. In these workshops, where we have established the same opportunities and opportunities, our students will become the future's star of technology. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I need ten more minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0371par0483	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0363par0484	In our 81 counties, we will set up 100 trials, technology workshops, and we will give these trainings to 50,000 special students by 2023. [[Constantly knocking on desks from CHP and HDP rows]] The world's largest aviation, space and technology festival, the third one, opened its doors this year in Gaziantep. Over 100,000 young people applied for this year's competition. We meet our young people with the technology of the future in competitions such as rockets, electric cars, subhuman systems, biotechnology innovation, jet engine and helicopter design. [[Constantly knocking on desks from CHP and HDP rows]] In order to raise the capable human resource that industry needs, we started the Institute of Industry PhD. We train 1,162 Ph.D. students in projects developed by 49 universities and 210 industrial companies. [[Constantly knocking on desks from CHP and HDP rows]] We have brought researchers from all over the world, qualified scientists, to participate in critical projects with the International Leader Research Program. These researchers train Ph.D. students in advanced areas of expertise. As part of this proud program, we will be able to bring at least 100 top investigators into our country with a new call in 2021. [[Constantly knocking on desks from CHP and HDP rows]] Of course, we're here to run a science diplomacy, to show a vision, to work for brain migration. And do you know what an MP from the main opposition party says about these researchers? (Italian researchers.)
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0372par0494	Shame on you!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0363par0495	See, the opposition is confused, and they call those who go abroad to education the brain migration, and they call the researchers we brought from abroad the ▪ithal researcher. I also offer this mentality to our nation's discretion.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0373par0498	Mr. Secretary, wrap it up now, please.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0363par0499	Mr. President, I have six pages, six pages.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0373par0500	Pack it up. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0374par0501	I thought you weren't giving me an extension. What's this?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0363par0503	Dear lawmakers, our development agencies are revealing the potential of our cities. We have brought the east of Turkey closer to the west, the north closer to the south than ever before in the history of the republic. Our development agencies and our regional development administrations now ensure that cities associated with terrorism are remembered for production, employment and innovation. Women and young people are a dragger of local potential with projects they're involved in. So far, our agencies have provided $9.2 billion in financial support for 22,000 projects, creating an investment volume of $15.7 billion. [[Noises from CHP and HDP rows, constantly knocking on rows]] Sure, I'm moving fast, precious deputies. COSGEB increases the number of strong KOBIs with the support it extends its scope. Since Christmas, we have provided 1.3 billion dollars in support for 63,000 SMEs.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0375par0507	Mr. Secretary, wrap it up, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0363par0508	TÜBITAK, which guides the RD ecosystem, began the Patent-based Technology Transfer Programme for the commercialisation of patented technologies developed in university research boards and techno parks this year. [[Noises from CHP rows, constantly knocking on rows]] We've activated a spirit of mobilisation that has never been seen in our RD and innovation ecosystems in the fight against Covid-19. 17 projects have been successfully carried out under the roof of the Turkish platform, TÜBITAK Covid-19. We have four vaccine candidates who complete animal experiments, two of which will be produced from the Ministry of Health to secure production necessary for human trials. Inactive and adenovirus-based vaccines will launch phase 1 human clinical trials at these facilities in Tekirdağ and Adıyaman. Thanks to this spirit of mobilisation, Turkey is now a country capable of developing and producing modern vaccines in world standards.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0375par0513	Mr. Secretary, say your last words. I've extended it, I've given you five minutes. Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0376par0516	A congressman came out here and said Mr. Minister was developing vaccines, but he's collecting shoes. I really condemn that expression. I'm not developing the vaccine, Turkey's scientists are developing it, scientists. More than 500 scientists are working their nights in the daytime; come on, you have no respect for me, you have no respect for scientists. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we're going to raise the economy of Turkey with a reformist understanding, in accordance with the spirit of the new era, under the leadership of valuable production, innovation and entrepreneurship. We will put our country amongst the world's largest economies in the company of reckless entrepreneurs, industrialists, scientists and workers who rely on Turkey's future. In line with our goals in the 11th Development Plan, with Mr. President's tensips, our ministry's RD budget has doubled and the budget for organised industrial areas has increased five times as much. [[Constantly knocking on desks from CHP rows]] I'd like to point out that we're going to use every penny of the budget that our nation has entrusted to us efficiently. [[Applause from the AK PARTY lines; constantly knocking on rows from CHP rows]] I promise you from here we won't waste the citizens' money by destroying the council's desks. [[AK PARTY places (Bravo) voices, clapping; CHP rows of noise, constantly knocking on rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I wish our 2021 budget to be blessed and fortunate. Hopefully, Turkey will have a much better future.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit04spe0377par0525	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0377par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. The commission is in place. Members of parliament, against Yasar Montenegro... Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0378par0007	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself in the fourth round of the 2021 budget talks. I salute our Veteran Assembly. Let your blessed Atam stand be the most holy land. Let there be a horseless man in his hour. Let his spirit rest in peace. (Applause from MHP rows) On the 45th anniversary of his passing, I honour and honor the great Turkish prosecutor, Huseyin Nihal Nihal Horseless. Precious lawmakers are the main element of customs and trade policies to ensure that Turkey's trade is made easier and safer, but also faster and better. Our country is increasing its share of the world's trade day by day. Under the changing conditions of the world trade, the legal, administrative, physical, technical and financial capacities of concerned institutions that ensure our country's harmony must be adapted to world developments. The measures to protect the Turkish brand and the Turkish manufacturer are essential. The legislation on the protection of the consumer must be updated, and the activities of market surveillance and control activities must be increased. Dear lawmakers must take additional measures for business businesses, the small tradesman who is not working under the influence of the Covid-19 epidemic and the measures taken. In traditional sectors, the local manufacturer's competitiveness must be boosted, our logistics must be developed by taking advantage of our geopolitical position. Turkey has the potential to become a regional base in logistics, with its location at its intercontinental crossing point. To improve our country's logistic performance, it needs to increase its human strength and technical capacity to maintain customs services quickly and effectively and minimize the waiting on doors. Dear lawmakers, with the dissolution of Soviet Russia, the bipolar world order became monopolar for a period of time, and with the changing conditions, the world is now moving towards a multipolar order. Under the circumstances, Turkey must be a regional force. In this context, especially given our country's geographical position and potential, with the changing circumstances, it is seen as a threat to Turkey's geopolitical importance in the geography that Turkey breaks its shell and forms its own industry, creating its own native, national weapons industry, creating a national economy, especially by the imperial forces that do not want Turkey to become a power centre in this region. When we look at the best examples of this, the acts of terrorism just beyond our borders, the problems we face in the Eastern Mediterranean, which we call the blue homeland, and we see, the problem that Azerbaijan is facing in Karabağ, and the atrocities that have been there for nearly two centuries, were not satisfied with the massacres; rather, they were occupied over Karabağ. That's why it's important for Turkey to be strong. When Turkey is strong, I would like to celebrate the victory of Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) from here, but I would like to thank all the authorities, especially TİBİTAK, for their contribution to Azerbaijan's victory, especially in the technological field of Turkey's powerful Turkey, and for the victory of SIHA (SIHA) and Azerbaijan (SELSAN). (MHP and AK PARTY) Because strong Turkey will turn Turkey into a focus of power and the oppressed around it will be the gateway to salvation somewhere. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I just want to say that by ignoring them, we can't achieve anything by taking things into different dimensions. Thank you all very, very much.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0379par0016	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0380par0019	Thank you, Mr. President. Despite your earlier negative attitude, I salute you and the Supreme General Assembly. Because the 68th article of the Turkish National Assembly is very clear. I can't imagine you don't know that, you're now a senior Deputy Speaker of Parliament. I'd like to point out that I find your attitude strange, that I do, and that's what I want to be satisfied with. (CHEERING) And out of respect for your grace, I don't want to go any further. Mr. President, with the new system, we're making the 3th budget, and I would like to wish that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, truly, on July 15th, is a worthy and worthy friend of the honorable assembly and of your esteemed members, who literally repel the treacherous coup attempt with our beloved nation. This new system, there are new surrogates, and I've been here for 19 years; in the old system, the government came out of this great assembly, and we had a very difficult discussion, from the ministers to us, from us to the ministers. Dear MPs, this system...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0381par0023	Outgoing ministers...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0380par0024	They wouldn't talk like that, brother. Now, as we just saw. That's not the system. In this system, the nation gives a person the authority to conduct, giving the authority to 600 lawmakers. So, why did the execution come here, why have the execution been here for five days, precious MPs? For five days, the walk is here to ask us for money. We're the hand in the budget negotiations at this moment.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0382par0027	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0380par0028	We're here to oversee and determine how much it will be spent, and how much taxes we've collected from our beloved nation. So today, tonight, we watched two ministers, two men, and two morals. Let's sit down and talk straight. I didn't accuse anyone of immorality. Just now... (AK PARTY RINGS) Get in the way as many times as you want. You can all hit the tables together, no problem, no problem.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0382par0030	Just a minute, Mr. Altay... Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we just...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0383par0032	Yeah, that's a lot of talk!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0384par0033	It's a ritual to use words. Throw them away.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0382par0034	Wait a minute, don't say anything. Mr. Group, let's hear from the Vice President, the esteemed MPs.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0384par0036	A respected Minister of Commerce spoke to our Minister of Commerce, with his manners, with respect to the Supreme Assembly, told him what he was doing, told him what he was going to do, responded to criticism. I bow before you with respect.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0382par0039	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0384par0040	Then another Minister came along, and I was inclined to listen to him with my friends with the same intention, and I listened for the first few minutes, but Mr. Varank had a record like this from the last budget. It's polemic now! The polemic guy's here or she's here. This place will do the pollen.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0385par0041	But you made a statement!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0384par0042	Don't act. Nothing, we didn't open our mouths until we got to the polemics, and I told my friends if he didn't do the polemics, we'd listen quietly. But... of course, when I looked at what you said, what you said to our group, a friend of mine said, "That's what happens when you're looking at a white troll. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, we don't have a minister, we're looking at Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who sends his greetings, his loyalty to Recep Tayyip Erdogan, his allegiance, his allegiance... why does he need it so badly? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Before July 15th, before December 17th or 25th, I don't know if there's a flaw in it, but it could be the only reason it's tearing itself apart. I'll tell you this first...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0386par0048	What does that have to do with anything? On the 15th of July, he says to the man whose brother was a martyr, "What's his problem?" It's a shame! Her brother's a martyr. You don't tell a man whose brother is a martyr, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0384par0049	Now, we're going to the council's desks...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0387par0050	Mr. Altay, just a minute. Now, dear lawmakers, Mr. Altay, the Minister's...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0388par0052	His brother was a martyr on July 15th, what do you say?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0389par0053	May God have mercy. Crimes have a code of character.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0387par0054	Just a minute, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0389par0055	I also remember your brother with mercy and gratitude.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0387par0056	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, could I have your attention, please?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0390par0057	Mr. President, he's insulting our Minister.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0387par0058	Wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's not right for you to talk. What our friends just did wasn't right for me either. Let Mr. Altay speak his mind.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0390par0060	Let him tell you without insulting you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0387par0061	Don't be sarcastic.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0391par0062	But he's insulting me. Don't let him insult you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0387par0063	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0392par0064	This is the seat of accountability, not of the nation's representatives; it will come to you tomorrow. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I want to say, "May your brother's place be in heaven, and may my God rest in the lake of light." But there's the opposite: his brother's in jail, his brother's ambassador -- you did it -- how is that going to happen? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Minister -- I won't abuse the President's tolerance by responding to all criticism -- but I have to say -- he's boasted about the record, we've done this, we've done this -- we can't waste time getting into them, it seems. I'll tell you something: the minimum wage commission has been convened; two members of the government are here. Turkey receives 30 times the salary of a minimum wager, the President and the MP receive 20 times the salary. Is it like this in other countries of the world? Why do you jump when you say minimum wage? If we're this big, I'll take off my hat, bow down, bow down. The minimum wage is $4,000, and I'll believe the bullshit you're talking about here.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0393par0071	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0392par0072	Finally, we are not enemies of capital. To accuse the Republican People's Party of an enemy of capital, one must fear God. But you're the enemy of both capital and employee in Turkey, outside of 5+2.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0394par0073	You're domestic car enemies.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0392par0074	There's more to it: you're the enemy of nature and the enemy of the environment. That's why we oppose your policies.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0394par0075	You're domestic car enemies.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0395par0076	Okay, thank you. Mr. Altay, you just expressed your thoughts. When I talk to a Republican People's Party or any other party here, I can't interrupt him with protests just now, and I can't take a break. That's the way it should be judged. I'd also like to thank you for your opinion of me. I'll make a promise to Mr. Oluç. He's wanted a promise for a long time.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0396par0081	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0395par0082	Here, make a brief assessment. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0396par0086	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, your attitude and conduct in the first place is really appropriate for the ceremony of the House, the immunity of the bench. So congratulations and thanks. Secondly, in the old system, yes, there was a government coming out of Congress, and the system was restored by the will of the nation. The people choose to run the parliament, and the president represents to run it.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0397par0089	People don't choose to make it work.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0396par0090	And the ministers, in accordance with the 8th Article of the Constitution, which represents running here under Article 62 of the Civil Code, represent the President, and explain their opinion here, along with the immunity of the parliamentary legislature, under the Constitution and the Civil Code.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0398par0091	Thanks... finish it, bye.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0396par0092	As a result, both of our ministers spoke out of respect for the truth, for the nation. That's why you shouldn't be offended.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0399par0094	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0396par0095	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0399par0096	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0396par0097	Ideas can be disproved by ideas, ideas cannot be suppressed by noise; however, it can be an invasive approach. But we never gave up on fascist approaches, and we never will. Everyone needs to know that for sure. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our Minister is also a brave man who fought against the field like the rest of us on July 15th, and the speakers of the CHP Group were the ones who expressed his thesis on December 17th and 25th under this sacred roof. So they carried out their own accusations, but they took place in front of our nation. I remind you that we have not accepted any of these charges, that we have returned any charges, and that I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0399par0101	We're talking about something that's been discussed for a year or two!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0400par0102	Mr. President... he said the ideas are clouded by the idea.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0399par0103	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0400par0105	I guess Mr. Akbasoglu didn't listen to me.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0401par0106	I listened, I listened.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0400par0107	I take my hat off to the Minister's opinion, his self-defense, his response to criticism. But the Minister can't insult you, and he can't insult me. And no congresswoman.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0401par0108	Mr. Secretary didn't insult anyone.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0400par0109	Shame on you! Shame on you! You've got to be kidding me.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0402par0110	Mr. Altay, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0401par0111	Never and to the floor, the Minister never insulted anyone.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0400par0112	In this country...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0402par0113	Mr. Altay... please... come in.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0401par0114	He responded to political criticism. So why do you feel uncomfortable about the fact that the vet put it out there? You'll criticize him, he won't be able to respond to criticism, Mr. Secretary, and that's just a prudish approach.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0400par0116	If a president in this country is to be charged with fascistism, the last party will be CHP. In this country, it's obvious who's doing anti-fascist, dictatorial practices.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0402par0117	Okay. Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0403par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, before we get too involved with this conversation, it's been discussed, I'd like to make a few points. One of them, now, has spoken to us, Mr. Secretary, called it "Empiralist Western admiration."
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0404par0122	Right.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0403par0123	Look, okay, I'll tell you about it now.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0405par0124	Now it's true. It's taking our time, so don't do it, don't do it, don't do it.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0403par0125	Now, today, President of the Justice and Development Party, Erdogan, your president, said: "We have very radical political and economic relations that both sides of the United States and the European Union will never ignore, absolutely not want to lose. In his speech the other day, he said: "Our future is in the European Union and in the West."
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0406par0127	Yeah, we don't have that problem, you guys conflicted.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0403par0128	Now, either you don't listen to what the President of the Justice and Development Party has to say, or you don't read it, or you're developing policy against it.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0406par0129	Apparently, you don't understand, he says you're conflicting.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0403par0130	Which one are you talking about? That's the first one. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Second: Now, Mr. Secretary, look, you gave an example of Mercedes. I'll tell you about the Mercedes example, because you said that my production was ignorant. See, when the Mercedes company makes all kinds of products, it produces, buys, brings, edits, and sells technological materials where they can produce the cheapest products in the world, and sells them as Mercedes in Germany, right? But there's nothing wrong with that, because especially in the era of globalization...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0407par0134	Wait a minute, wait a minute... here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0403par0135	...it's known to everyone that the system operates like this, it's not a newly invented situation. Now, while I was talking here today, I said, "Well, you call it a local car, which is fine, we have no objection to making automobiles." Look, I've told you, you've chosen the German engineering company technology partner from the electric engine Bosch, the battery from China, the British Myra chassis systems, the design from Italy. I said, "That's good, but why are you selling it as local and national, who are you kidding?" I didn't say, "Don't make a motormobile here." I've put a critique to your political rhetoric, your political rhetoric, which has deceived the people of your power. So, I'm sorry if your example of Mercedes is really the ignorance of production. It's not us, it's you. [[Applause from HDP rows]] And the third...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0407par0139	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0403par0140	Mr. President, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0407par0141	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0403par0142	Thank you. We're in a very strange situation here. Why? Well, we're very important in the Commission, and here, and in my speech today, research development, technology development, so the Ministry of Industry's share of budgets should be increased, research development should be budgeted, the Minister of Industry is critical of us. Why are you criticizing us? We say your Ministry is important, your share is more, you give us criticism. We say, look, I gave you an example. You're telling me now about the ICU equipment. When did this come up? Covid's outbreak came up when his pandemic came up, and there was trouble with intensive care equipment in Turkey, and they tried to produce it. So I said, if mentality is the mentality of power, in education, in health, in public, in the interests of society...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0407par0145	Dear Oluç...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0403par0146	I'm packing, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0407par0147	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0403par0148	I'm talking about weight content, that's why.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0407par0149	Come in, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0403par0150	Therefore, if your government's budget had envisioned a division of health and public needs in education, a domestic intensive care device would have been produced and exported before facing Covid. I'm criticizing it, and I don't understand why you're against it. That's the point. So with what mentality do you divide the shares in the budget?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0407par0151	Well...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0403par0152	My final sentence, sir, is that you didn't absorb democracy." You said. Yeah, I'm sorry, this freak called the presidential government system has wiped out democracy in Turkey, democratic rights and freedoms, rule of law, everything, the separation of forces, and you're telling us about democracy as his representative. Get out of here!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0407par0154	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0408par0155	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0407par0156	Naci Hodja wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0408par0159	Mr. President, dear friends...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0409par0160	Freedom is what you talk about!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0410par0161	Of course!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0411par0162	You're giving me the right? You're giving me the right?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0412par0163	Now, what do you guys solve by screaming from there? What are you talking about? Sit back if you love God.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0410par0164	We've all been chosen here. What kind of talk is that? Are you listening to yourself?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0413par0165	To our il building...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0412par0166	You're making small talk about the president of the group! Wait a minute, members of the law... Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0414par0169	Mr. President, I have been promised to present two issues to the High Council's discretion. First of all, those who have the right to speak in the House have the same rights in terms of speaking. The issue of how people speak in parliament is not only in the Civil Code, but also in the Civil Charter, and also in its overall rhetoric, it is appointed in the assembly's total speech. You have to remember the words that this dome heard. If it's a shameful thing to do, don't do it, let's do it ourselves. It's not right to say, "Let's do it."
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0415par0171	I'm not saying polemics, Mr. Botanci. It's a shame, it's a shame!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0414par0172	If, I mean, a certain form of expression, if a certain way of speaking is wrong, if it's wrong, if it's wrong, the MPs can do it. It's not right to present it in a way that will be understood as -- you can correct it, if it isn't. The second thing is, Mr. Engin Altay did this minimum wage comparison -- I don't know if he said it twice today or not.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0415par0174	Yeah.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0414par0175	You're probably planning on doing it later.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0415par0176	Raise, give me $4,000...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0414par0177	Now, I've looked at the numbers.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0416par0179	Yes, please.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0414par0180	I'll give you some technical information. In 2003, the difference between the President's salary and minimum wage is 70 times -- the reality of Turkey -- 40 times today, friends, 40 times. So Mr. Engin Altay surely appreciates the difference in nature between the two, and anyone who knows the number does. We got, like, $100, $150, and we moved the minimum wage to a $300-400 tape. So it can go down through inflation, then it's increased again. Trust me, the heart wants to make the minimum wage a thousand dollars, make it $2,000.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0417par0181	TL... TL...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0414par0182	Hopefully, Turkey will grow bigger, stronger, richer, and we'll raise the minimum wage higher. If the opposition has ideas that will allow the minimum wage to be higher by considering all the elements within the scope of Turkey's total resources, resources, capacity, we would be happy to hear them.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0418par0184	Here you go, teacher.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0414par0185	We've got $100-150 to get it on a $300-400 tape, and if they get the chance, or if they have any ideas, let's all try to get it higher. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0418par0188	Mr. Altay, make an assessment without challenging a taunt. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0419par0191	I don't think I fit Mr. Bostanci's assessment with all his savings, I'll tell you that first. For one thing, polymics is, of course, in politeness and a reasonable manner. The issue here is that an officer appointed by the President, from the outside, comes and insults lawmakers in parliament, insults them.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0420par0194	Not an officer, not an officer, the Minister, not an officer.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0419par0195	That's how we see it, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0421par0196	We don't see it, that's the difference.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0422par0197	Guys, wait a minute...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0419par0198	Mr. Bostanci, I won't allow anyone to call you "jahil" or let anyone call you "insulterant," "insulting capital" or "fascist" or "fascist." From the outside...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0421par0199	By God, your president is singing in the group, if you were against your president.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0419par0200	If you're looking for a fascist president in Turkey, you know exactly where to look.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0421par0202	The ignorant one of Allah said, "Your president." Your president tells me.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0419par0203	However, by drawing pink paintings here, by giving a lot of wrong numbers...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0421par0204	Mr. Altay, I expect the same honesty from you; your president said the same thing.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0419par0205	I consider it my duty to convey to the government who lied so much: Mr. Recep, he said that the cash register had been thrown into the Prime Minister's office. Mr. Recep also criticised it, 2017. Thank God those days are over...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0423par0207	Here you go, Mr. Altay. Here you go. Pack it up.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0419par0209	I wish the cash register had been thrown out again or thrown out again, as Mr. Recep put it. Now, people hang themselves from hunger on bridges. This flaw belongs to the AK PARTY, to the AK PARTY governments. I don't know what else to tell you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0423par0211	Okay.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0424par0212	Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0423par0213	Mr. Musavat, Akbasoglu wanted a word.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0425par0214	Mr. President, all the Group Presidents are responding to the Ministry's interview.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0423par0215	Yes, Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0426par0217	Thank you. Mr. President, I'd like to point out that everyone on the stand here has the right to answer questions about themselves, one.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0427par0219	Didn't we say not to?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0426par0220	Secondly, some of them have limited power of speech, we say everything that comes our way, we don't have a general authority approach. Thus, everyone will respond to ideas and that process has been carried out, and under the rules of the Constitution, the Civil Code, our ministers have also used their rights. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0428par0222	Thank you, thank you. Mr. Dervisoglu, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0429par0225	I salute the General Assembly. If it closes, I'll continue, sir. Thank you. Now we've found ourselves in a very pointless discussion, and we've been working hard all morning, and we're tired. Maybe the nerves are tense, but it's obvious we're dealing with a responsibility to find the truth, to find the middle. Before our Minister of Industry and Technology came to the stand, Mr. Trade Minister made his speeches, and he was shown the utmost courtesy that must be shown to a Minister under the roof of this Grand Assembly. Therefore, an outside man did not come to our Minister of Commerce, who was kind and respectful of him. Since the next Minister's speech has also been met with reaction, it is also necessary to accept that the Minister's words are likely to react between his statements. No one has the right to make statements that would harm the spiritual character of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, no matter what its title or duty. We, as the GOOD PARTI, have always expressed the right choice of language in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but the Minister's speech -- I regret to say -- has been found remarkable by us not only as a speech, but as a prepared speech.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0430par0231	The guard's here.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0431par0232	Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0429par0233	We had some questions to ask him, but I'm stressing from here that we're not going to ask the Minister of Industry and Technology, in case his style leads to further debates. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] Let's not twist the numbers, this country, we're all talking, we're all in the same boat at hard times. Then we need to float this ship. We're going out, and if we were swimming badly, this ship, people wouldn't have voted for us this long. Let me answer your statement in the words of the late Dündar Taşer. "It doesn't make a man a captain to be liked by most travelers. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] Mr. President, you know from 2014 to 2019, he had two jobs campaigns.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0432par0239	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0429par0240	I'm ending it, Mr. President. During this period, the total employment increase in this five-year period will be 1 million 343 and the increase in public employment will be 1 million 296. So the private sector provided 47,000 jobs in the five-year period we left behind. And that's not a very high performance. So it's possible to talk about flying planes, cars to run, but it's impossible to distort numbers. I congratulate our Minister of Industry and Technology. So we're early in the industry to 4.0, and we're running out of people's factories. I salute the High Council, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0433par0244	Mr. Akçay, please.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0434par0247	Thank you, Mr. President. Generally, it was expressed to the ministers as the appointed minister, in the fingernail. Let's not forget that in the old system, many ministers have been appointed from outside the House, many governments, even though there were no MPs. The ministers appointed in the old system and in the new system are sworn in by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, constitutionally, dealing with the Supreme Court if necessary, and whose status begins with an oath in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Ministers are not bureaucrats, they are political figures, and they have the right to respond to political criticism. Article 68 of the Civil Charter was reminded. Of course, there are other articles in our Civil Code. As the General Assembly continues to negotiate in a healthy manner, all MPs and all party groups also have a clause that puts us all in charge. We've just seen that Mr. Varank's speech has been prevented. However, the five party groups have expressed their views on the budgets of the ministries for 70 minutes, and all criticisms have been made, and the ministers have listened very calmly and have also used the right to respond, which is of course their rights.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0435par0251	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0434par0252	As Mr. Altay spoke, I remembered last year's budget talks -- exactly a year ago. It was like this: When the AK PARTY Deputy President responded to the criticisms, the Republican People's Party Group was objecting again, you can't answer, sit down. Let the executive answer. The EC PARTY, therefore, patiently waited until evening, and will answer. When the executive responded, they reacted to the execution this time. You can't answer us, the AK PARTY group will answer.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0436par0254	For God's sake! For God's sake!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0434par0255	We see that the same attitude continues again, which is a fact. The presidential government system has also achieved stability in the administration, justice in the representation. It has been at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for two years. That's all I have to say for now. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0437par0259	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0438par0260	What am I going to do, I will; this time Akbasoglu won't be able to speak last.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0437par0261	No, I don't know what you're talking about right now.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0438par0262	Speaking of my name, last year...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0437par0263	Here you are, Mr. Altay, in one sentence, such a glorious...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0439par0264	I didn't say anything, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0438par0265	Erkan, you didn't say anything, but you never understood me! Or maybe you didn't listen. And when I started my speech, I said, "The minister will come out, tell you what he's gonna do, tell you what he's doing, respond to criticism." That's what I said! I told you he'd answer, I didn't say he wouldn't! But the Minister can't insult me, I won't. If you want it, I don't want it. That's what I said!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0440par0266	You said officer, officer!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0441par0267	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0442par0268	I mean, I wonder what you're gonna say now.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0443par0269	I'm curious, too! It has to be the last, so...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0442par0270	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0444par0272	Mr. Dervisoglu had some conversations earlier, and I raised my hand about him, so I'm going to say a few words about him. I don't mean to be a polemic, not a polemic, but an explanation. I will say this: It is a constitutional obligation for everyone to respect the Minister of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0442par0274	That's what you just said.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0444par0275	Look, the Republican People's Party, the Speakers of the GOOD PARTY, the HDP Speakers have spoken. The presidency adopted the government system by national referendum, by its own volition, and the President's authority to run it.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0445par0276	That's common knowledge.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0446par0277	Say something new, something new.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0444par0278	There is nothing more natural than the ministers who represent the president answering their criticism in a period of thirty-five minutes during exactly two hundred and ten minutes today. This says the Constitution and the Civil Code, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0447par0280	Yeah, well, thank you. Mr. Altay... Gentlemen...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0448par0284	I'm saying one thing, there won't be this road in this House, Akbasoglu won't always make the last speech, I'll say it for once.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0447par0285	Well, you said it. Okay, you did.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0448par0286	Akbasoglu will also know that no one will disrespect members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, regardless of its reputation. [[Applause from CHP rows]] 1) Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Trade Ministry 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Competitive Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Helal Accreditation Agency 2019 Central Management Final Account == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account EPISODE TO PRODUCTION AND PRODUCTION OF LITTLE AND DEAD EMPLOYMENTS [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the Development and Support Administration of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2021 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Standards Institute Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Patent and Brand Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Patent and brand institution 2019 Central Management Final Account ISBN 0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0! [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management 2019 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Space Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Space Agency Final Account for Central Management 2019
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0449par0337	Congressmans, the talks in round four are complete. Let's move on to questions and answers. Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0450par0340	Thank you, Mr. President. I pray to God for our martyrs, and for our veterans, and for our nation. I wish our budget to be good. Our heromarash is a city of history, culture, tourism, agriculture, industry and trade on its terms. Turkey is one of the leading cities in the textile sector. 36% of the cotton thread, 15 percent of the fabric, 30 percent of the fabric and 65 percent of the metal kitchen items, 20 percent of the paper, 10 percent of the cement, 8 percent of the electricity is produced in our province. We're number 2 in Turkey for jewelry and women's shoes production. We rank 26 companies in the largest industrial corporations and the 8th most successful in Turkey. According to KMTSO's September 2020, despite the conditions of the pandemic, employment has increased in our province, and 154.100 of us are currently in actual employment.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0451par0345	Mr. Kenanoglu...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0452par0346	Mr. Trade Minister, the importance of co-operativeism in developing and developed countries around the world is well known and special legislation and regulations are being made for cooperatives. In Turkey, there are serious complications. 3 different ministries, 3 different laws, 3 different tax laws, and co-optarianism are being tried; this makes co-op difficult for co-op. Will you, as Minister of Commerce, have a study on a single cooperative law, a cooperative bank and the establishment of a co-operative ministry to facilitate legislation?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0451par0347	Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0453par0348	To our Minister of Industry and Technology, Mr. Minister, when he was in the 4th district of Kurskkale, where he was near the capital, he couldn't get enough investment. He has now been moved to the third district. We demand that all parts of the Cırıkkale be taken into the 6th district, including the ingredients. Can you back us up on this? Again, we've offered the law to build a software development site that we believe is very, very important. Does your ministry have any work in this direction? Would you like to make a contribution to this and start at Cırıkkale? On the other hand, what steps will be taken at the point of the arrival of domestic and foreign investments in the Burstukkale Arms Industry OSB (OSB)? I'd like to ask Mr Pekcan, our Minister of Commerce: Will the additional six-point SGK bonus time be extended in Kırıkkale, which will end in December? Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0454par0353	Mr. Chepni...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0455par0354	Thank you, Mayor. I have a few questions for the Minister of Industry, but I have no questions after a presentation with a teenage troll style that's far from the Ministry's seriousness. I'm not asking questions because it's a teenage troll attitude, not the Minister.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0454par0357	Mr. Sumer...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0456par0358	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the Trade Minister. Mr. Secretary, I've asked this question as a written question motion, and I'm afraid I didn't get an answer. The Ministry of Commerce, which reflects on the Court reports, has found that there are 140,000 lira-paid employees under design support. Who are these people, what are their merits? How many people work under design support? How much do these people get paid? What did they do? What are the pay-designing criteria?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0454par0360	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0457par0361	I'm asking Mr. Trade Minister: The number of companies closed has increased 12.67 per cent in the first ten months, and the number of businesses has increased 16.61 per cent, compared to the first ten months of last year. With all these companies closing down, the others are dying, trying not to shut down. You want them closed by bringing bans on grocery stores, liquor stores, dry-food vendors, forcing them into the way of the people's lives? You said the big markets would go out of town. You've made grocery stores, liquor stores, dry-food vendors out of business. 1.8 trillion euros has announced support for the European Union, which is $17 trillion. Japan has announced 5.5 trillion lira support. How much will you support the closing, dying enterprises?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0454par0362	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0458par0363	Thank you, Mr. President. I haven't answered dozens of questions. I'd like to ask the relevant ministries again, to remind them of some of these questions. To deliver it to Mr. Finance Minister... what's the total debt to medical equipment and medical firms due in full? Is it true that they're being pressured to waive 25 percent of what they're owed? Do you have any work to prevent the bankruptcy of these companies? Again, is it true that the Bulgarian-born elderly have been cut off from their 2022-needed pensions to be delivered to the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, if that's true? Another question to the Ministry. Why did you take back the rights of our Bulgarian-born citizens to whom you have the right to be in military debt? You still haven't explained your reasons. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0459par0369	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0460par0370	Thank you, Mr. President. In accordance with your current circumstances, our OSBPs, which have provided investment environments in the world standard, such as energy, environment and transportation, have been established by the Manavgat Organised Industrial Region, and 325. I'd like to thank you on behalf of our fellow manavgats. My question is Mr. Mustafa Varank Beye, our Minister of Industry and Technology. The contribution of industrial cooperation projects to domestic production and technological transformation in public purchases is enormous. Minister, what are the projects under industrial co-operation, and can you give us information about the next period? Good luck with our budgets, thank you, respect.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0461par0374	Mr. Nicemansur...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0462par0375	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Trade Minister: Hatay is the head of cities affected by the Syrian crisis. While the concordato was unknown in Hatay, many companies had to declare concordato in recent years. In Hatay, executive tracking rates are far above the Turkish average. The shopkeeper, the industrialist, the merchant, is crying out for blood. In Hatay, Alexanderun is one of the best places for the free zone, and why is Alexander's free zone not set up? Or will you continue to treat Hatay as a stepchild? Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0463par0378	Mr. Osmanakaoğlu...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0464par0379	Thank you, Mr. President. Especially when Turkmenistan closed its borders on all countries during the contagion process, the only route for our representatives of the road transport sector remained to Kazakhstan-Russia. However, this time, Kazakhstan's conditional use of the Caspian naval route to the licensed vehicles of the Republic of Turkey had a negative impact on the road transport sector. According to the unusable alternative route, 15 days of time wasted and $2,500 in damage were imposed on our exports by foreign licensed trucks. I know our ministry is trying to solve this problem, so I'd like to ask you to share the situation. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0465par0382	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0466par0383	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to our Minister of Commerce, Mr. Pekcan. Last year, the 780,000 tonnes of nuts are around 600,000 tonnes this year. Last year, with the TMO involved, the nut manufacturer sold the crop to the merchant for about $3. Although last year's recluse is 25 per cent missing, the nuts are sold at around $2.7 this year. Covid-19 in global markets is what all of our producers expect to find out by our Ministry that companies are playing on the price of nuts as the price of agriculture increases. We expect you to make a satisfactory statement to the nut makers by investigating these companies.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0465par0385	Mr. Hasan Baltacı... Mr. Nice...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0467par0387	My question to the Minister of Commerce: unemployment and the cost of life, which deepens in the pandemic process, has continued to be at the top of the agenda of the public, the workers, the workers. The government has taken measures towards large-scale capital focal points, in which the process has been collaborating from the very beginning, but has closed its eyes and ears to the problems of small-scale enterprises and tradesmen, which are most affected by the epidemic. During that time, 700,000 shopkeepers closed their shops and committed suicide because dozens of tradesmen did not get along. In Diyarbakır, the tradesmen continue to close a shutdown. In this context, what studies are being carried out to compensate for small-scale businesses and tradesmen who are negatively affected by the pandemic? Between April and November 2020, what is the number of businesses that have closed down according to the provinces?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0465par0388	Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0468par0389	Mr. President, thank you. There's been a technical setback, and the question I'm going to ask has been mixed up, but first I'd like to thank Mr. Trade Minister for his kindness this year and last year and for his respect for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as an opposition MP. I hope that's an example for our other young people. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0469par0392	Now, to answer the questions, I give the word to the Commission and to the administration. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0470par0395	Mr. President, I didn't get a lot of questions, but I'd like to start by stressing that no member of the Cabinet can have a negative attitude, a negative attitude towards our own Parliament.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0471par0396	You did that last year, last year.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0472par0397	You did the same thing last year. Get out of here!
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0470par0398	We know how to respect our High Council.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0473par0399	Apologize.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0474par0400	Then apologize.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0470par0401	We show it all the time. There has been no attitude towards the High Council's personal home. I got three questions, one about industrial cooperation projects. We're actually contributing to domestic production and technological transformation in public purchases with industrial cooperation projects. In this case... [[Noises from CHP rows]] Mr. President, I'm being interrupted all the time, so please take this into consideration.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0475par0405	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0470par0406	We've done design and production of national electronic monitoring units with industrial cooperation projects along with our Ministry of Justice. So in the next three years, we will be able to get a share of the world's electronic monitoring market, which is expected to reach 1.3 billion euros in size. Again, we've been following projects related to industrial cooperation projects, especially in the development of local and national systems. Again, we have projects with our Department of Energy. I'd like to give you an interesting example: we're conducting an industrial cooperation project with our Ministry of Youth and Sports, especially in localization of imported sporting materials. In this context, we continue the Project for Modern Pentathlon Sports, Laser Weapons and Targeting System Development, and we see that we can achieve very interesting results. There are demands for the cranberry. I'd like to point out that the regional incentive system that we're implementing right now is based on the socioeconomic development index. The socioeconomic development indexes of cities are evaluated by scores in very different categories, and cities are subject to a ranking. According to the order here, we apply 6 regional incentives to our provinces according to natural fractures. We started a innovation this year -- it was an important demand for us -- we've implemented the borough-based incentive system, and we're implementing Sege. Thus, we often have such demands. Can you take this province? Can you take our province to the incentive area? We really don't have a chance to make a political decision here. Whatever the Socioeconomic Development Index says, we do the incentive system accordingly. There's only one exception, industrial areas. If we declare an industrial zone in a city, we have a chance to implement a different incentive model there. And in Sivas, when we've completed the infrastructure work, as promised at the Nuri Demirageg OSB, that's what we're going to do when we declare the industrial zone. There was no other question that came to me. Let me rephrase, Mr. President, I've expressed it on the stand, but it may not have been heard because it was too loud. This year, our RD budget has been doubled, five times the budget we can use on industrial sites that we can use in organized industrial areas. So I would like to address not only members of the Cumhur Alliance, but all members of our Parliament: If you have OSB projects, industrial site projects in your cities, regions, please come, let's support them with this increased resource, let's open the way for investments, hopefully start a development move in Anatolia. Again, I salute each and every one of you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0476par0411	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0477par0412	Yes, we'll answer questions in writing if we don't raise them here. Other than that, what we couldn't raise there from the Plan and Budget questions, we answered in writing. And we're particularly sensitive to answering the question motions as the Ministry. Now, first of all, there were questions about these Court reports. As Mr. Mahir Polat said, there is no public harm in the court's report in 2019, when our Ministry examined the account transactions. The report says: "There is no identification that can be expressed as public harm. " It is also said that the interior control system of our ministry is created in accordance with the legislation and its functioning is effective. Our ministry is also stressed that it contains accurate and reliable information in all important aspects of its financial reports and paintings. As of now, 16 of these Court findings have already been completed. There are some transactions in accounting. Six of the 13 findings are completed in co-ordination with the other ministries because they are in the field of duty. One of the most common questions is the tax, the picture, the tuition exception. It is not even possible for any institution, company or anyone to be granted a tax exception or immunity that clearly does not take its basis from the Constitution and the law. Our Ministry is not an investor ministry and is not bidding. International tenders, contractors, report documents to our Ministry in writing. In no way is it possible to pay as much tax, picture, and tuition as the price of the contract. The upper limit is 3 million 239,556 lira 40 cents as of 2020, with the upper limit of the stamp tax exception. The document can't be announced because of how much of this will be used after the process has been completed, because it's unclear from the beginning, but that's the maximum, it doesn't usually reach this level. Yes, other than that, the operating of customs doors made with the do-and-work model is subject to the Law on the Doing and Business Model Frame of some Investments and Services 3996; it is not subject to the Law on Public Relations 4734, nor to the Law on Public Management and Control 5018. The inventory tracking system for seed loans... This was given at the Farm Bank at the time, but it was transferred to our DFI payments for a period of time. There's some money that's not being used right now, and we're talking to the Treasury and Finance Ministry, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, and we're talking about how to solve it with the Republic of Turkey Central Bank of Turkey to get rid of it. The other has the support of design and design offices to encourage high export value of our ministry. In any case, there is no amount of $140,000 in public. Only design and design offices support are controlled by export troops, then applied to our Ministry. Our company's designer, who received design support, who worked for international very famous brands, had been paid to leave work, paid for the job, and reported compensation, but, on the other hand, a warning to that exporting unit went down, and that figure was reduced, which was supposed to be a math figure. We'll let you know in writing in more detail.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0478par0418	Was the money returned?
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0477par0419	Yes, yes, absolutely. We can prove that, too.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0479par0420	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0480par0421	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0477par0422	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-11sit05spe0480par0423	I'm now going to read the budgets and final accounts separately and submit them to your votes on the matter of the budgets of public administrations in the fourth round, respectively. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Commerce will be transferred to the central management budget for 2021, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Trade Ministry Central Management Budget for 2021 GENEL TOPLAM 6,585.834,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Ministry of Commerce was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Ministry of Commerce in 2019 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Trade Ministry 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 5.310.915.108.50 Budget Expenses 5,118,334,237,57 Canceled Fund 179,922,699,90 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 15.260.598.40 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the Ministry of Commerce were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Competitiveness Agency will be transferred to the central management budget of 2021, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Competition Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 137,500,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 137,500,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2021 of the Competitive Association was adopted. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of the Competitive Association of 2019 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Competitive Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account Total Payment 122,720.000.00 Budget Expenses 100,277,522,97 Cancelled Fund 22.442.477.03 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm reading the general sums of the ruler (B): Budget revenue estimate 96.190,000.00 Collection 113,078,727,40 Ret and Returns 455,821,98 Net Collection 112,622,905,42 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Central Government's final account of 2019 were adopted by the Competitive Association. I submit to your votes that the Hellal Accreditation Agency will be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 6.455,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 6.355,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Hellal Accreditation Agency was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the Hellal Accreditation Agency in 2019 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Helal Accreditation Agency 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 7,967,500,00 Budget Expenses 6,469,313,39 Canceled Fund 1.498.186.61 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm reading the general sum of the ruler (B): Budget Profits estimated 3,876,000.00 Collection 5,400,488,09 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Hellal Accreditation Agency were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Industry and Technology will be transferred to the central management budget for 2021: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 11.918.182,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Ministry of Industry and Technology was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Ministry of Industry and Technology in 2019 will be transferred to its final accounts: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 9.469,412,046,67 Budget Expenses 9.214,083,984,68 Canceled Fund 255,328,061,99 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 178,915,984,50 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the Ministry of Industry and Technology were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the chairman of the GAP Regional Development Administration shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. THE PRESIDENT OF THE GAP DISAPPEARANCE 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 95.866,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 94.616,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the GAP Regional Development Administration was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the GAP Regional Development Administration's Central Executive Account of 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 88.330.200.00 Budget Expenses 76,731,325,89 The grant goes to 4.991,329,89 Canceled Fund 16,590.204.00 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 88,1999,00 Collection 69.552.761.13 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Central Management Account of the GAP Regional Development Administration were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the East Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration's presidency will be transferred to the central management budget of 2021, those who have not accepted... are accepted. EAST ANADOLU PROJECT CENTER OF THE NEIGHBURGHBURGHBURGH 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget TOPLAM 96.666,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 96.366,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of the East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the East Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration's Central Management Account of 2019 will be transferred to its chapters: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account Total Payment 126,130,000.00 Budget Expenses 119,811,670,97 Canceled allowance 6.318.329.03 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 89,950.000.00 Collection 84,397,411,04 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration were adopted in 2019. I submit to you that the Office of the District Development Administration shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. CONNECTION PROJECT PRESIDENT 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 129,99,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 128,979000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget for 2021 of the Office of the District Development Administration has been adopted. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Office of the District Development Administration of the Plains of Iconium shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 127,238,000.00 Budget Expenses 120.109.466.56 Canceled Fund 7,128,533,44 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 117.343,000.00 Collection 126,072,389,85 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Office of the District Development Administration were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration's presidency will be transferred to the central management budget of 2021, those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. EAST KROGENIAL PROJECT PRESIDENT OF THE NEIGHBORAL CONTROL 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 95.506,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 95.206,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The East Black Sea Project was adopted as the central management budget for 2021 of the Regional Development Administration. I submit to your votes that the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration's Central Management Account of 2019 will be transferred to its chapters: those who accept... those who do not. 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 87,078,000,00 Budget Expenses 85,484.230,97 Cancelled Fund 1.593.769.03 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 85,893,000,00 Collection 87,544,411,42 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The East Black Sea Project was adopted as part of the central management account of the Regional Development Administration in 2019. I submit to your votes that the president of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. THE PRESIDENT OF LITTLE AND DEAD EMPLOYMENTS TO PRODUCTION AND CONTROL 1) The Central Management Budget for the Development and Support Administration of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2021 General TOPLAM 2,069.007,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 2,069,007,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of 2021 was adopted as the head of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration. I submit to your votes that the head of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration of 2019 will be transferred to the final accounts of the central administration: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance is 2.787.159.900.00 Budget Expenses 2,748.572.006.20 Cancelled Grant 38,587,893,80 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimate 2.248.591.000.00 Collection 2.718.969.725,56 Ret and Returns 164.631.03 Net Collection 2.718.805.094,53 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of 2019 were adopted as the head of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration. I submit to your votes that the Institute of Standards of Turkey be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 1) Turkish Standards Institute Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 620.425,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 549.660.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Turkish Standards Institute was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Institute of Standards' final account of central management in 2019, those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkish Institute of Standards 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 567,849,270,00 Budget Expenses 486.422.558.40 Canceled Fund 81,426,711,60 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 453,533.00 Collection 452.910.478,36 Ret and Returns 3.229.918.01 Net Collection 449.680.560.35 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Turkish Institute of Standards' final account of central management in 2019 were adopted. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Patent and Brand Foundation be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. ENGLISH PATENT AND MARKA BUILDING 1) Turkish Patent and Brand Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 146.162,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 205.334,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Turkish Patent and Brand Agency was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Turkish Patent and Brand Foundation in 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Patent and brand institution 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 112,512,500,00 Budget Expenses 105,958,963,85 Cancelled Fund 6,553,536,15 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 214,969.000.00 Collection 162.516.073.30 Ret and Returns 562.83.40 Net Collection 161,953,239,90 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Turkish Patent and Marka Agency's final account of central management in 2019 were adopted. I submit to your votes that Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Foundation be transferred to the central management budget for 2021: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. TEKNOLOGIC RESEARCH PRODUCTION OF TURKEY UNIVERSE 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 5.251.272,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 5.249.772,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Turkish Scientific and Technological Research Agency was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Turkish Scientific and Technological Research Agency in 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Final Account for Central Management 2019 Total allowance 5.787.914.451.95 Budget Expenses 5,219.081.902.64 Canceled Fund 568,832.549,31 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 49,518,605,86 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimate 3.072.986,000.00 Collection 5.298.479.514.09 Rejections 956,480,27 Net Collection 5.297.523.033,82 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Association were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Academy of Sciences will be transferred to the central management budget for 2021: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 22.444,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 22.394,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Turkish Academy of Sciences was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Turkish Academy of Sciences in 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 17.387.600.00 Budget Expenses 15.350.860,41 Canceled Fund 2,036,739.59 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 16,900,000.00 Collection 17.145.024,10 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Turkish Academy of Sciences were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Space Agency be transferred to the central management budget for 2021: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Turkey Space Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 38,071.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 38.071.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Turkey's Space Agency's central management budget of 2021 has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Turkish Space Agency in 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Space Agency Final Account for Central Management 2019 Total Payment 1,000,000.00 Budget Expenses 298.377.80 Canceled Fund 701,622,20 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Collection 147,096,529,61 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of Turkey's Space Agency's central management account in 2019 have been adopted. The budgets and precise accounts of public administrations in the fourth round were thus accepted. I wish them well. Congressmans, the fourth round of talks is complete. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Saturday, December 12, 2020, to discuss budgets and precise accounts of public administrations, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
