tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 10th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Members of parliament, this Parliament has taken the liberty of becoming the conscience of the Turkish nation from the most difficult times in the Istliklal War. Today, there are processes that have hurt the conscience of our beloved nation. French President Macron is trying to make Islam, a source of peace and security, look like a focus of destruction and terror; it is aggressively attacking our supreme religion and provoking Islamophobia every day. Unfortunately, these actions are not the first or last disgrace of the French President; they make attempts to undermine the dignity of mankind at every opportunity. In particular, in recent years, the Republic of Turkey has been responsible for this attitude. Whatever focus there is against the Turkish people, it has made it a condition to keep them in line with them immediately. In the eastern Mediterranean, he is one of the ones who took the initiative to provoke Greece to undermine our move. From Libya to Syria, wherever there are terrorists, coupgers, massacrers, the French President is present and present with them. The last hope of Macron, who is often haunted by empty dreams, such as cornering our beloved nation, is Armenia, an invading terrorist state. It helps Armenia in many areas, from gun assistance to diplomatic support. The invading mob, who rely on the power behind which it leans, has lost its temper, attacking our Azerbaijan brothers. Moreover, these attacks are not fought bravely in the battlefields, but by raining rockets on civilian citizens. The hero soldiers of the Azerbaijan army give the answer to the dirty players, such as France, who have been blinded by the eyes of Armenia to slaughter children, women, and elders. With each passing day, the land of Karabakh is set free and the land of Azerbaijan is set free. Knowing that the Republic of Turkey is behind them, we believe that this enemy of humanity will cut off the network of murderers from Karaböp. As far as Asia Minor is concerned, Karabakh is also a land of the country. Our seal, which they cannot erase from history, will shine from that land again. Karabağ is Turkish, Karabör is Azerbaijan! [[AK PARTY, CHP, MHP and GOOD PARTY welcome]] Dear lawmakers, today our former Minister of Health, an important political man, a statesman, has received his blessing, and I wish him mercy, and I ask for patience for his family, and my condolences for our nation. Mr. Osman Durmis has left a trail, held a position of honor in Turkish politics, in state life. We remember him with mercy, and we offer our condolences to our nation. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın (Erzurum) who wants to speak about Erzurum's problems and expectations. Here you go, Mr. Hodja.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0002par0017	Dear President, dear fellow lawmakers, as I begin my words, I wish you health, happiness, and peace on the memory of your great delegation and of our beloved nation, Mevlit Kandili, and of Republic Day. On the other hand, I would like to extend patience to all friends and loved ones, especially his family, who are a precious member of our eternal party and the health minister of our 57th government, Osman Durmis Bey. Honourable lawmakers, as representatives of the nation, we have a two-way responsibility: First, to shed light on a number of issues that require the best interests of our country, to bring up and present solution proposals, and our other responsibility is to try to express some of the problems of that region, as members of our elected district, from here, from the stand of this nation, and to demand solution proposals and to seek solutions from the spirit. This is our political and moral responsibility, and I'm here to express some of the woes of Erzurum, the land of my grandfathers, which I was born and raised to bear witness to. Honourable MPs, Erzurumians, who have reflected in the attitude and behavior of the brave, brave, primitive and loyal stance, have been aware of all investments, contributions to Erzurum, and have never stopped giving their thanks in this sense. The very decent and clear expression of this is reflected in the chests. In this context, for the first time in the 6th quarter, we have faced meaningful, domestic industrial investments. Due to these decisions that have made the impossible for geographical and climate conditions possible, we offer my thanks to Erzurum and to all those who have worked primarily for the presidency and later, especially the Ministry of Industry and Technology, and to the need to make this investment permanent. So in other words, what our Ministry is saying is that as Erzurum, staying in the orange zone is our largest and total supply. On the other hand, it is our greatest desire and desire to speed up and complete the construction of Ovit, Kop, Dalliavak, Pirinkayas, Çirishy, Tekman and Broken Tunnels and road constructions that will be the center of the southern-north line. We would like to express another important expectation, not only of Erzurum, but of the northeastern border line, that we would like to express our strong demands that the high-speed train, which stretches from Sivas (Sivas) to Erzincan, will now land on the plain, as they say, as a reflection of a process where it is easier to do its job, until Erzurum and Kars Turk Express (Shark Express) will travel very long today, to the status of a high-speed railway line. Respected lawmakers, one of the most important pencils of our ancient city, which is the great and fourth geography of Turkey, is agriculture and livestock. Yes, despite the intense climate and nature conditions, we still have farmers in that region who provide their livelihood for agriculture and livestock, and we have feeders. In this sense, we don't have a very diverse product production, but we do have a few organic pencils, which are wheat, beets, potatoes, and some sunflowers. In this sense, I'd say, especially these days, the purchases should be accelerated and Erzurumian should not be victimized. The completion of the Barrier Dam again in that sense would be a great comfort to the local people. And one of the more important things that I'd like to focus on in particular: I'm saying that the East Anatolian region, which we offered as a law proposal in 2017, in Turkey's coldest climate, will be very comforting to the people of East Anatolia, especially the people of Erzurum, when we're dealing with this area of natural gas reductions, especially when we're engaged in this pandemic process. I salute your high council with these wishes and wishes.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0003par0026	Thank you, Mr. Hodja. As for the development of Alexander, Mr. Tokdemir, here you are.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0004par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. At around 9:30 p.m. last night in Alexander's district, where the brotherhood, tolerance, and civilisations met, our security units neutralized two suspected terrorists at Payas checkpoint, while the explosion occurred in our district of Alexander. Thank God we didn't lose our lives in the explosion, and I pray to God for immediate healing for our wounded. We're dealing with all sorts of acts of terrorism, no matter what its origin, rhetoric, purpose, whatever its name is, no matter how it's defined. To our unity and unity, I curse any terrorist attack against our country. Congratulating our heroic security forces for the successful counterterrorism operation at Hatay, I wish all Hatay people well.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0005par0033	Mr. Scabukcuoğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0006par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. The Turkish nation lost another precious son, Professor Osman Durmis Allah. In the Marmara earthquake, he and his team demonstrated the necessary strength to heal our people and perform all kinds of health care successfully. They have shown that the Turkish nation can overcome its own problems by rejecting show-and-tell imperial aid. Twenty years ago, when the society was not conscious of genetics, it showed a rare state-man reflex in the history of the countries to prevent abuse by sending our genetic structure abroad, and with courage, it managed to overcome any attack and protect the genetic map of the Turkish nation. Our country and our nation's head, and the place of the deceased shall be paradise, and I wish patience to all who are near it.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0005par0037	Mr. Enginyurt...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0007par0039	Mr. President, this is Mr. Osman Durmus, whom we served together in the 57th Reich of the 21st century. Mr. President, the tax has come up with a configuration for the SGK. I want to say that I find it positive. However, hundreds of thousands of people in debt to the Agriculture Loan were not included in this configuration. I'd like to tell Mr. Treasury and Finance Minister that the Agricultural Loan loans should also be taken into account. In addition, the SMEs will be given loans, yes, but the people do not have the power to take credit, the file is broken, the record is broken. For that reason, I would like to thank the government through you for bringing up the amnesty of the bank's record during this tax and the SEC pardon.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0005par0044	The second non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Shamil Separatist, who asked about the attack on Azerbaijan. Here you go, Mr. Separatist.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0008par0047	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Veteran Assembly, as I begin my words, Professor Osman Durmis of our past health ministers, I wish our brother God's mercy and peace to his place. My dear friends, I have made a personal pledge regarding the attacks of the Armenian Armed Forces on the Azerbaijan army positions and civilian sites. On this occasion, I would like to salute our High Council. In this speech under the roof of our High Assembly, I pray to God for the mercy of our Azerbaijan brothers, who have been killed by the attacks of Armenia, and to the immediate healing of the wounded, and to the head of our Azerbaijan. Dear MPs, as you know, these attacks on civilians were not the first, but we have seen this example many times in history. Unfortunately, these attacks on civilians in the 21st century are the attacks where there are witnesses, there are evidence, there are video recordings, children die, young people die, elders die, elderly people die. Last week, we saw those places with our Speaker and a group of fellow congressmen in Congress, and they were really sad paintings. Now, Azerbaijan used his right to defend himself to this attack, and on the basis of Article 51 of the United Nations Treaty, he gave the answer to protect the integrity of his territory and to protect the civilian population. There are four previous decisions taken at the United Nations General Assembly. The Azerbaijan army is making that decision on the field. What's he doing? Right now, completely and unconditionally, he's taking his land, fighting against these invasion forces that occupy his own land. When we look at what we've come to today, really, the Azerbaijan army has taken very important centers. Today, with his thirty years of experience and experience, he's got his national will behind him, his political power behind him, and, of course, I'm with Azerbaijan in whatever circumstances the state of the Republic of Turkey calls me. He's morally waging this war on the front. However, the Co-Chairs of Minsk Group, the co-chairs who have had to finish this case for 30 years, are unfortunately unable to do anything and are completely under the rule of the Minsk Group. I'd like to point out that a decision they've just decided to make has been rejected on the United Nations General Assembly with Turkey's zeal. I'd like to thank the independent members of the United Nations General Assembly, who, indeed, are standing next to Azerbaijan, and I find it a very positive response to the fact that such a decision has not been accepted despite the double standards that have been implemented so far. During our visit to the youth, we saw this: There is no limit to the violence and persecution of Armenia against the civilian people of Azerbaijan. Basically, it's a cruel act that clearly violates not only human rights and dignity, but international law. I ask you: What is the fault of the 15 - year - old Nigar, who was killed with a missile the day before his birthday in Gence, who lost both his parents and his two - year - old Nicholas, who entered the coffin with his mother at the age of one? With a disregard for the decision to call a humanitarian truce for the exchange of prisoners and funerals, Armenia has stooped to attacking civilians from the burial site during a funeral ceremony in Terter. Basically, there have been three ceasefires that violate one in 24 hours, the other in two minutes, the other in five minutes.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0009par0057	Pack it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0008par0058	But now I thank you very much for our friends here, here, in our press, who have served in the Turkish Republic and the Azerbaijan press. And finally, I'd like to finish my words in the words of Genceli Nizami, the master of Azerbaijan, who is a salsa, the bond of persecution to the world. So he is bound by his own hand. This is the case of Armenia. The government of Armenia -- the criminal government, the rogue state -- today, unfortunately, has committed a legal murder by attacking civilians, which has led its people into poverty, which did not allow them to be part of important projects in the region. From here, I say again to international institutions: "Keep your senses, please return the occupied lands of Azerbaijan." Finally, during our visit to Azerbaijan with our Parliament Speaker, where there was that incident, where the dead were, an elderly aunt said: "Let me be a victim to the MPs, to the Turkish people, to the Turkish people, to the Turkish people, I'm glad you're here. I'm kissing this aunt's hand again." [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Aliyev said: "Azerbaycan, indeed, when these lands are taken and, hopefully, are soon blown up in Shusha the 3 colored Azerbaijan flag, then the citizens of Armenia will see right, law, justice under the roof of Azerbaijan. This is his statement. As I end my words, I salute you all, and I say, "Karaba is Azerbaijan!"
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0010par0067	Congressmans, our fellow lawmakers who can't get into the system come all the way down here and ask for a minute's word. I've told you before, I'll give you my word to a congressman who's come this far, but the lawmakers who can't get into the system don't have to come. Yes, Mr. Sefer?
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0011par0071	Mr. President, Minister of Health of the 57th Government Osman Dursü has passed away. Osman Durmiş is our teacher, our minister. Osman Durmis has been the Ministry of Health for three and a half years. He successfully managed the healthcare services during the Marshallian earthquake during his ministry, and the health care services were very successful during that period. With 600 ambulances, 112 services were organized in 81 districts. In 2001, our country was certified by the World Health Organization in the region, where the entire health department was successful in fighting polio. He started a shift in hospitals, allowing police services to arrive in 16 hours. We remember Osman Durmis, who marked his time with great mercy and gratitude; may his soul rest in peace, and his place be in heaven.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0010par0076	The third unscheduled statement belongs to Ankara MP Levent Gökyük, who asked for a comment on the October 29th Republic Day. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0012par0079	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all as we celebrate the 97th anniversary of our republic. The establishment of our republic, founded under the leadership of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, is very special in the world. It's a republic that's won by fighting the imperialism that wants to destroy us and the exploitation order that wants to swallow us, and it's got complete independence in its essence. It is a major transformation project that has transformed a theocratic empire from a nation to a nation based on citizenship. The definition of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk (Ghazi Kemal Ataturk) means the state's form of democracy in which modern civilization is the target, whose idea is free, his conscience is the way of science and reason for free generations, and secularism is the basic principle of the state. Now, when democracy, secularism, the idea is targeted by states and citizens who are on the road to freedom, reason and science, we understand a sense of governance that those who run the state take account at every step of the way. We understand a sense of governance that communities and cults can't occupy the government's staff, that they can't be protected, that they can't attempt a coup. We understand a system where authority is not assembled in one person, but in which parliament is strong. We understand that the council has taken the budget rights of its own, used the right of law on its own, and has not shared it with anyone, and has the right to oversee it. We understand a system in which the government's staff is evaluated, not a friend, not a relative. We understand a sense of governance where the media is free, no one's right to know, no journalists are in prison. We understand a system where everyone trusts law and justice, the judiciary is independent, the Constitutional Court decisions are implemented by everyone. We understand a system where work is the highest value, that the peasant is the master of the nation. We understand that women are equal and powerful in all aspects of society. We understand a sense of governance that non-objected citizens can freely demand all rights from the rulers, that the rulers are far from arrogant. On the contrary, we understand a system in which the rulers do not find them exaggerated when they say, "I want hunger, bread, and work, and bread." In the land where art and artist are protected and glorified, we understand an understanding that the principle of peace in the world has been applied without exception. Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, no one of the orphans had built such a republic and wanted to keep it alive. Our republic is not a republic founded and won for free. I would like to share with you the words of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk: "The proud and republican children of Turkey will not hesitate to test and identify those who stand for the republic and hide their true minds... we have shed much blood to obtain the Republic, and we are willing to do everything in order to protect our institutions. We are behind your promises, Supreme Ataturk. We promise to protect the Republic forever in your own way. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] Mr. President, good lawmakers, Republic Day is not a holiday to be stopped by bans. It is the government's duty to celebrate this holiday in accordance with the conditions of the epidemic. I salute the founding staff of our Republic, first Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his friends. Happy Republic Day. Long live the Republic of Turkey! I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0013par0086	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Congressmans, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to our lawmakers who are now entering the system. Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0014par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, budget talks in 2021 began last week. The presidential budget proposal with the government system is a budget that is not on the agenda of our citizens' immediate problems, with a budget prepared with a transition from institutionalisation to a personalized management system. In particular, our most basic problem is the growing unemployment, the budget that cannot identify young unemployment correctly, is far from creating a permanent, structural solution to problems; it is far from the perspective of growth based on production and employment. Clearly, this latest budget, which condemns our citizens to a collection of loans, interest, debt and aid, is a confession of the situation that the AK PARTI authorities have brought to the country for 18 years. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0015par0094	Mr. Yilmakaya...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0016par0096	Mr. President, it is critical for the future of our country and society to take into account the warnings of tens of thousands of dedicated experts who are willing to serve in the field of public health, who have worked hard, who can't be gained this expertise with open education. Do not waste the efforts of tens of thousands of people who have worked for the social work for years, who have spent time. These professions are damaged by remote education, not by society. Integrating social education into open education is the greatest injustice to society and its experts. What's the point of creating hundreds of thousands of unemployed people in open education now when qualified social workers have completed their training, received the necessary internships? Don't empty out your professions, don't play with people's futures. The social services department, critical areas such as child development, must be removed from open education immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0015par0098	Mr. Prime Minister...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0017par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. Our miners, who had started a march from Soma and Ermenek for eight years, had failed in their meeting with TKİ. We had no authority, no interest in Soma and Ermenek minefields. The answer was given. Like before, yesterday in Ermenek, miners' march was blocked by law enforcement forces. Our workers from Mining are also awaiting the fulfillment of their commitment by the AKP Deputy Leader of the Group in 40krek. The miners will not submit to the pressure of capital, they will resist the organised fighting force of all the working classes. For years, our mining workers, whose labor and sweat have been harvested, willing to face death on the face of the earth, will never give up their resistance to get their rights.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0015par0102	Mr. Sumer...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0018par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, when we're discussing the problems of agriculture in our country, our farmers, who are continuing agricultural activities in the districts of my hometown of Adana, are waiting for their problems to be resolved. The completion of infrastructure for the water distribution of the pond completed in Aladağ, the completion of the Seven Eye Dam in Imamoğlu, and the agrievation of the land of 800 acres. The reduction of beet quotas in the floodbrain has been a victim of the manufacturer. Because of drought in Saimbeyli, the quality of seed has fallen, and the seed support must be provided. High costs should be reduced in pumped watering in the ovaries. In Hearts, organic farming practices must be removed, supported. I address the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry: To restore agriculture to the engine of the economy, the farmer's problems in all our cities, especially in my hometown of Adana.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0019par0107	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0020par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to point out two problems in my constituency, Istanbul. First, unfortunately, there was a decision in Czechköy that was to victimize our citizens. The Smart Velidi Togan Park in Czechköy is being turned into a gas station by the City of Czechmeköy. In Istanbul, it is impossible to make sense to turn a existing park into a gas station when there is no room for citizens to breathe, children to run and play, and above all, an earthquake. Drawingköy needs a park, green space, not a new gas station. I call upon the authorities to look after the needs of the people, not your ally. A second issue is about our tradesmen in Sandzaktepe. Because of the epidemic and the economic crisis, the tradesman is already unable to do a single job, and on top of that, he is forced to pay a work permit to Sandzaktepe City for official holidays. The tradesman who reached out to us at least wants his victims to be relieved during this period of barely surviving. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0021par0114	Mr. Axeman...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0022par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. The winter tires of the school bus drivers have still been on them since March. For months, our servicemen, who have been unable to contact, who have been fighting to stay alive with loans, credit cards, friends, can't pay their insurance, motor vehicles can't pay their taxes. Auto markets, second-hand auto sales sites, busses, school busses that run on the 12-year-old border, they don't go for sale. On top of all that, with the gradual start of the training in person, our starters are struggling with punishments for failing to meet the terms of the 22-year-old and high-school-grade guidance staff. To those who dwell in their palaces in luxury, to those who find jobs for relatives, to find jobs for them, to bring them bread on the hook, to those who eat tea in the bag, I bring the message of 400 servants in Kastamonu, 200,000 in Turkey: Captain sleeps on the steering wheel, Turkey sleeps on the cliff, Turkey drifts to the cliff, and there is one on the right.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0021par0118	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0023par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. We are in the week of the Holy Prophet Muhammad (SAV), the year of his arrival in the world. I wish that the Memorial Week of Nebi, which is celebrated to understand our beloved Prophet, to remember, and to bring his message to mankind that is beyond the ages, should be a blessing. To our beloved Prophet, who invites mankind to peace, peace, justice, and to our holy book, the Qur'an, I curse and strongly condemn the vileness and dishonor that has happened in some European countries recently. The dangerous rise of anti-Islamics in the West is now turning into a total attack on the freedom of religion and worship of Muslims, on our Book, on our Prophet, and on all our saints. Politicians like Macron say they can't hide their failures in domestic and foreign policy by turning Muslims into targets, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0024par0125	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0025par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. Milk prices haven't gone up in about a year. In the meantime, bait prices have increased by almost 50%. Milk prices don't go up, and now milk powder, cheese, water, and yogurt imports are booming. In the first eight months of last year, 40 tons of milk powder was imported, while in the first eight months 3,911 tons of milk powder was imported. So in other words, there's a 9.712 percent increase. Milk powder is mostly used to make yogurt, so we eat yogurt with imported milk powder. Again, the cheese underwater used to make baby food and biscuits has increased by 6.49%. Last year, 19 tons of cheese water imports went up to 765 tons this year. So we feed our babies imported food. The yogurt we discovered and the yogurt we spread around the world has grown from 3 tons to 33 tons. You still don't give the calf support of 2019, and one day we won't even find a cow to milk.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0026par0131	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0027par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. I celebrate the 97th year of our Republic and remember the great leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Mr. President, our tradesman is in a difficult situation, and I'd like to ask for a pardon on his record in order to get our business manager out of a difficult situation. On the other hand, Mr. President, the president of France who defied both our country and our religion... [[x]] Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0028par0139	Mr. Star...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0029par0141	Mr. President, we continue our work on increasing regional employment by creating holistic and original development models, looking at the unique properties of all the districts of Ankara. In this context, the President's decision, published in the Official Gazette, April 8, 2020, was a topic we cared about when the Karaelmas train line began to carry passengers again. With this line brought to tourism, we aim to contribute to tourism in our districts of Kalecik and Çankırı, Karabük and Zonguldak. To this end, yesterday, we hosted our Minister of Culture and Tourism, Mr Mehmet Nuri Ersoy and Deputy Minister Nadir Alpaslan, our district deputies, our mayors and departments, Kalecik, Çankırı, Çerkeş, Karabük, Eskipazar and Safranpoli. In order to create a full tourist route to stimulate regional tourism, to contribute to the tradesmen and our natural-made people, our Minister of Culture and Tourism has evaluated the entire route one by one. On behalf of our fellow ministers and vice minister, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0028par0143	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0030par0145	Thank you, Mr. President. In 2014, in the village of Damar district of Murgul district of Artvin, about 3,000 people protesting the construction of cyanide pools for the gold-mining and segregation plant, walked into the construction site using their slogans, supporting 900 workers who worked in the copper mine of Genghis Holdings and left work because they were wanted to build pools. Studies have ended, some of the things related to the halt of production have been done because the people of the region joined forces and opposed the cyanide pools they call the pit of death. After time passed, reports of work in the area in question were heard. In 1/10/2014, 4C group metals, particularly copper mining, continue production, with a document signed by Eti Bakır AS Director Ahmet Tezcan. In the event of the production of precious metals in our facilities, the production method will not be implemented with cyanide. Even though the announcement has been made, it has been heard, unfortunately, that as time passed, these words were being conducted in the area in which cyanide and gold were separated. As a result of talks with experts, it has been established that Murgul Damar (Murgul) was not in line with the geographically cyanide pools, and that the dynamite that had been detonated for years for mining work has broken the area's geological infrastructure and the soil has become very flexible.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0031par0149	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0032par0151	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'm celebrating our nation's Republic Day, and I'm talking about ninety-seven years. In the village of Kirazlıyayla, Yenişehir district of Burma, the villagers continue their resistance to the zinc, lead, copper enrichment plant and the waste dam, which has been set up in the village's cemetery since March. The court has already decided to stop the execution, and tomorrow it's Bursa 1. The Supreme Court will discuss their case. And if they don't get a positive result from here, they'll walk to Ankara and demand their rights. Since their grandfathers, even the tomb of their ancestors, were given the CED reports in this mining plant area, we were with them from day one in their righteous struggle, and from now on, we will continue to fight until we get the rights of the peasant.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0033par0154	Mr. Gündüz...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0034par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish you well in Hatay province. As the President stated, Turkey is no longer a directionable country designed by attacks. Yesterday, when I received the news of death, the leading name of Romanian Turkicism, Mustafa Ali Mehmet, is a historian, Turkologist, litigator who dedicated his life to Turkicism. I had the opportunity to visit him in Romania and discuss his services to Turkish culture and history. Mustafa Ali Bey has struggled to tell Turkish historical facts despite socialism. He also wrote three major history books about Turkish history using Turkish sources entirely. The book "Turkish History" was published eight years later because of the regime. At the same time, the great man who translated the Qur'an into Romanian language also produced Turkish textbooks and was the pioneer of Turkish education in Romania. He has received many rewards for his service throughout his life. Mustafa Hoxha, a great Turkologist who has a problem telling all of his Turkish culture and history to Romania, has asked for God's mercy and his condolences to his loved ones. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0035par0160	Mr. Gökcal...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0036par0162	Mr. President, in my visits to the villages, I've seen great loss of rights in most of Mersin's villages, especially in Çirish and Threetepe, Erdemli district. After the cadastro work, the deeds our villagers received were cancelled after the appeal by the Treasury. These lands are becoming irrefutable because they want to be auctioned off by thousands of parcels of treasure that our farmers produce. Our villagers can't subscribe to electricity because of this cadastro problem, they can't water their land. If this problem isn't solved, people in villages won't even be able to farm to feed. As soon as possible, our farmers who've been farming on this land for centuries must be compensated for their loss of rights. This land must not be sold in a tender. These lands must be assigned to the villagers who own the real estate, to continue agricultural production. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0035par0164	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0037par0166	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the AKP was in Kayseri at the weekend. He ranked public investments for Kayseri one by one. For the high-speed train promised thirteen years ago, the project was finished, and it was under construction, he said. Kayseri said there were 30 billion public investments in 18 years. We opened 40,000 square meters of green to Sahabiye neighborhood. He said, "Whoever says Kayseri doesn't take public investments?" He said, "Let him be in his eye if he says so." Congressmans, the high-speed train promised 13 years ago is not in the budget of 2021. According to data from the presidency's strategy and budget presidency, about 4.5 billion public investments have been made to Kayseri, not 30 billion, over 18 years. In terms of public investment per capita, Kayseri is ranked 78. There are no 40,000 square metres of green open to Sahabiya neighborhood, and there are vertical architectures that he is angry with. Mr. President, the pots on the balcony of the houses and the green area...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0038par0170	Congressmans, I'm going to make a promise to the Deputy Directors of the Group who are now demanding a statement. Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0039par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. Today, we send a great man of state to eternity. My condolences again to the family and loved ones from God, our brother Osman Durmiş, who is the Ministry of Health in the 57th Reich. My condolences to the great Turkish nation. Last Sunday, we enthusiastically celebrated the 3rd anniversary of Turkey's good and courageous sons and the 3rd anniversary of our 3rd foundation of the good PARTI, established by the faith and support of our beloved nation. Since its establishment, the GOOD PARTY, which has changed the course of Turkish politics and brought a new breath to stuck politics, continues its course without giving up its uncompromising stance and our nation's troubles. Praise be to Allah that we have changed so many things in such a short period of time that we have been able to open the way for a strong and happy Turkey. We have given hope to all those who seek and victimize society, especially young people. May our foundation anniversary be blessed to our country and our beloved nation, and know that we will work tirelessly until we see the sun. In İskenderun district of Hatay, there was a hot battle with terrorists in the vehicle they were tracking on intelligence. As the terrorist found in the vehicle blew himself up, I wish our wounded officer an immediate recovery. Our heroic law enforcement forces have prevented a major disaster planned by working with great sacrifice...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0040par0179	Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0039par0180	...congratulation and continued successful service. Hatay has been targeted by terrorists over the deployment of the PID in Syria, and I wish our Hatay brothers well, and I repeat the prayer of God to protect our country from all kinds of attacks and disasters. Twenty-nine years ago, on 17 October 1991, Turkmenistan declared independence from the brother and friend country. From the day it was established, Turkmenistan has traveled far from the economy to establishing strategic relations with international business units and countries with common culture. Congratulations on the independence of Turkmenistan, brother Turkmenistan, wishing that Turkmenistan would live forever.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0041par0184	Let's extend it and give it a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0039par0186	The workers of Cenne, Seba and Turab mines, who have been at Karaman Ermenek for over a year since they could not receive their wages and compensations, have decided to march back to Ankara on the failure to keep their promises. Following talks with the authorities earlier failed, they began the Ankara march they had stopped, but when security forces blocked the road, workers launched a sit-in. We are closely monitoring the march that the miners have launched to Ankara, supporting the righteous struggles of our workers, whose bread comes out of stone, and expressing that we do not find the obstruction of right-seeking walks in place. We wish the government would hear the miners' voices. It is a duty not to victimize a citizen of the state; families must not be victimized in winter, and the right demands of our miners must be met.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0041par0188	Yes, let's wrap it up, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0039par0189	That's my last word, sir. In France, it is not possible for us to accept the defences and anti-Islamic statements of French officials, especially President Macron, of cartoons targeting the Prophet Lord Muhammad. Macron's explanations are no different than racism. It is a medieval mentality that separates people from their beliefs, language, religion, sects, and colors. Islam, which is the true religion in God's sight, will not be worn out by words such as consolidation, but will continue to exist on earth, and the oppressor will echo forever. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0042par0192	Mr. Mohammed Levent Nightingale. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0043par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we are deeply saddened by the loss of Mr. Osman Durmus Sir, our 21st and 23rd Minister of Health in the 57th Reich. The late Osman Durmis has always appreciated and achieved numerous achievements in every area he served for the state and the nation. To our dear elder, to our brother, to God's grace, to his family, to his loved ones, and to our community. Mr. President, two terrorists who were preparing for action in Hatay province last night have been neutralized as a result of the selfless work and pursuit of our law enforcement forces. The terrorist who was about to be caught during the operation blew himself up, but thank God there were no casualties in the explosion. Once again, we congratulate all of our security forces who have had great success in fighting terrorism, and in connection with the incident, we wish them well in our province of Hatay, our district of Alexanderun. Mr. President, the Republic of Turkmenistan is one of our Turkish republics that has been in the protection of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics for a long time and then gained independence. Today is the anniversary of the day Turkmenistan declared independence, October 27th, Turkmenistan Independence Day. On this occasion, we congratulate our dear brothers and sisters in Turkmenistan, the friendly country Turkmenistan, to live for many years free and independent.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0044par0201	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0043par0202	Mr. President, as you have expressed in a very, very poor way at the opening of the House, the President of France, Macron, has drawn the reaction of the entire Islamic world through his policy against Islam and Muslims in an extremely difficult process. The way they go is not the way they go, we rephrase it very clearly; he can continue to see himself in a third-rate Napoleonic style, as if he would shape, shape, tune East. But when he looks at history, when he opens his history pages, he's from Cezzar Ahmed Pasha...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0044par0204	Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0043par0205	I want to say again that we are able to strike the same sequence, as France, Napoleon, and Napoleon, before them, by the permission of God.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0044par0206	Dear Oluç...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0045par0208	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will understand Mevlit Kandili, the birthday of the Holy Prophet Muhammad. It is the most important legacy to be trustworthy, to have a sense of justice and mercy at the very beginning of human values. Today, we are celebrating the Mevlit Kandili (Mevlit Kandili) of the Islamic world, which we desperately need. We strongly condemn the attempt on Alexander's life bomb attack yesterday. In places where our citizens are, where people go to work every day and hour, where they shop, it's never acceptable. We wish Alexander's people well. Members of Turkey's Revolutionary Trade Unions Centre for Research (DİSK-AR), Turkey's Statistical Agency, Social Security Agency and the European Statistical Office have published its research into the situation of pensioners and the reality of pensioners in Turkey. People who work most of their lives, who work hard, have the greatest right to a human pension in their old age. We face a society of 13.2 million pensioners and right-owners in Turkey, but it's getting harder and harder for pensioners to live humanly, and they're running out of hopes for retirement. 2.6 million pensioners in the lowest tranche, and the rightful owner gets 763 lira a month. In the second language, 2.6 million pensioners and owners live at $1,252 TL per month. So 13.2 million pensioners, 7.9 million of the rights holders, under the minimum wage, are sentenced to monthly and income. He's a pensioner, and his income is going down.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0046par0213	Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0045par0214	The difference between the first quarter and the highest pension and income of pensioners in Turkey is 7.5 times higher. The European Union average is 4.2 times. A common retirement poverty is climbing. On the other hand, almost half of the pensioners are either working or looking for a job due to low income. On the other hand, social gender inequality continues in retirement. Women are more difficult to reach for retirement. Thirty-two percent of those employed are women, while only 19 percent of pensioners are women. Close to 80 percent of pensioners are 55 and older. Thus, the claim that Turkey is a country of young pensioners does not appear to be true. The average life expectancy for retirement in Turkey is 17 and a half years. It's well below the OECD and European average. Average life expectancy in retirement is 25 years in France and 24 years in Greece.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0047par0219	Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0045par0220	We talk about pensioners all the time, it's a huge social problem, but the government refuses to find any solution. Turkish-government recently published its latest research, and the family's hunger limit for four was set at $2.482, which is more than minimum wage. The poverty limit is 8.086 Turkish liras. Thus, not only pensioners, but workers, workers, have also appeared once again in these research and reports that are under very severe conditions, which are not only humane. Finally, I'd like to mention the Turkish Human Rights Foundation's Violation Report between January 1st and August 31st 2020. When we look at this breach report, there are violations in various areas.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0048par0224	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0045par0225	I'm picking it up, sir. I'd like to briefly mention a few of them. For example, in the printed media, there are numbers of arrests and arrests of journalists and writers. It's very clear that there's been a very heavy pressure environment in social and digital media. In 53 news, 75 websites, 2 websites, 5 social media accounts, 59 Internet content, 143 websites are blocked by court decisions. As a result of at least 637 peaceful meetings and the intervention of law enforcement forces, 1,3346 persons appear to have been taken into custody under abuse. In 33 provinces -- the shortest is two, the longest is thirty days -- 89 times it seems that all actions and activities have been banned. As this list continues, detentions and arrests arise for members of the association, foundation, trade union and occupational organisations.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0049par0229	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0045par0230	I'm finishing, sir. And, of course, when we look at January-agustos, it seems that 14 other mayors -- two of them are being suspended from office by the Ministry of Interior, including the province, 11, and 2,,,,,,, are being appointed trustees. It's a long list. According to the Turkish Human Rights Foundation's report, the situation is serious in terms of human rights violations. We also saw the last example in Istanbul on Saturday. Young people including HDP Youth Assembly members wanted to make a press statement, police intervened, 61 people were taken into custody. It's strange that at the same time the Syrians -- the ones who opened the flags of the Free Syrian Army -- went out into the street in Aksaray, they opened flags in Istanbul, they didn't listen to the measures of Covid, the police didn't intervene, everyone watched. Thus, in Turkey, democratic forces, peacekeepers can't explain what they want, but the Syrians can do what they want, which is another example of the double standard. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0050par0233	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0051par0235	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you and the Grand General Assembly. Today, a few hours ago, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey performed important services to our front yard, science, politics and the state, and we sent the late Minister of Health of the 57th Government, Osman Durmis. I pray to God for mercy, and hope his place is in heaven. I hereby offer thanks to the head of our scientific community, our political community, our nation, our loved ones. Those who knew Osman Durmis knew him, those who knew him, were our brothers in politics with a colorful personality, along with a high buildup in Turkish politics. I wish him mercy again, and my condolences to the ulterior community. Mr. President, thanks to yesterday's terrorist attack on Alexander, our heroic security forces have been eliminated with bravery, caution and effort. We have wounded, and I wish our wounded a speedy recovery. The terrorist organization must know that the origin of the Republic of Turkey, its origin, its power point, will not leave its shoes on any terrorist organization. I'd like to say again from here what I've been saying over and over again: no claim demand can give a terrorist innocence, terrorism legitimacy. That's how it's supposed to be known.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0052par0240	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0051par0241	Mr. President, today is October 27th, October 28th, tomorrow, I believe at 1 p.m., our Republic Day will officially begin. What a happy and blessed coincidence that tomorrow is also Mevlit Kandili. In our Turkey, in our Anatolia, we will, hopefully, celebrate tomorrow evening and the next day, in awe of Mevlit's Kandil, in the spirit of our Republic Day. We're receiving conflicting information, statements, news from the government wing. It's a national holiday in one country, which, if this national holiday is the foundation of that state, as the Great Ataturk had said, is the most blessed day, which will prevent some of the government's officials from celebrating the republic with enthusiasm -- no doubt -- in accordance with the rules of mask, distance, hygiene.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0052par0243	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0051par0244	...we also consider it a misfortune for him to present signs and warnings. That's nothing new. There's no way to understand every national holiday when citizens are competing with the government to celebrate the national holiday. I mean, it's in the past now, but we reminisce about this understanding: the honorable members of the AK PARTY, the respected lawmakers, the base. But I thought of something I said years ago. I was hoping that some of the executives within the AK PARTY would be done with their reflexes, like preventing the republic from going along, avoiding celebrating national holidays, but I see that some of the senior AK PARTY executives still have this. Once again, I repeat our esteemed MPs. If today Turkey is ruled by the EC PARTI government by the president of the EC PARTI, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan should never forget that he owes it to Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and to our beloved nation. I salute you and the Grand General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0052par0246	Mr. Muhammad Emin Akbasoglu... Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0053par0249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, when you first opened the General Assembly, all your sentences have been translated into each of our feelings, thoughts, and feelings, and I hereby thank you, my dear President. My dear President, the esteemed MPs, we've been through a really important process. We understand the pandemic process together, both nationally and globally. So we met the coronavirus in the process, and we had to deal with a treatment process that lasted fifty-eight days, 24 days in intensive care, 20 days intubation. In the process, we have always felt your support with us spiritually. On this occasion, my dear President, I would like to thank both your Grace and all our political parties, all our fellow deputies, all the members of our beloved and noble nation, their prayers and support, and God bless you all. In that sense, of course, indeed, we have had citizens who have lost their lives, and I ask God's forgiveness and mercy. At this time, we have the citizens who are being treated, and I wish these citizens a speedy recovery, and I pray that they meet with health, peace, and pleasure, as soon as possible, from my great Lord. As with charity, solidarity, national unity, and unity, I also thank the Lord God for being a member of a noble and holy nation at the point of sharing such pain and sharing joy with a common feeling.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0054par0254	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0053par0255	Dear President, dear lawmakers, today I call upon our dear Minister of Cırıkkale and former Minister of Health and our dear fellow citizen, Osman Durmus, God's mercy and forgiveness. Again, my condolences to his grieving family, relatives, loved ones, and the National Movement Party. May his place be paradise. Last night at Hatay -- thank God -- in the sense that our security forces were alert in the sense of intelligence, and that they would act immediately as a precautionary measure of preventing the attack on vehement terror...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0054par0258	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0053par0259	...congratulating our heroic security forces and my condolences to our Hatay, our citizens at Hatay. Dear friends, I hope that in two days we will celebrate the 97th anniversary of our republic. It's a great honor, a great honor. On this occasion, I am grateful for all of our pasts, all of our elders, who entrusted us with this republic's regime, along with the first President, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his comrades, thebani, the founding leader of our republic.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0054par0262	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0053par0263	In fact, whatever misfortunes have been passed through yesterday, we stand truly independent today with the will of our great Parliament, which is the sole purpose of national sovereignty, under our President's leadership, in the fight against seven duvets, in the sense of the same misfortunes and future. Mustafa Kemal Paşa, who called himself a fully independent Turkish organization, put every point of Turkey into force with every institution and organization, in an upright, honorable, sovereign, free and unique foreign policy that concerns the rights and interests of our nation and our state.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0054par0265	Let's wrap this up, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0053par0266	...in every platform, at the point of best representation, we continue to walk with certainty. This year, I hope, in accordance with the conditions of October 29th Republic Day, the epidemic, the pandemic, will be celebrated with the enthusiasm and excitement of our entire nation and institutions. Happy Republic Day. In particular, the German police's aggressive attitude towards Mevlana Mosque in Berlin was mentioned here as a common attitude and behavior that we all condemn, which is beyond Macron's war against Islam and the intent of some ultra-rightist leaders.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0054par0269	Let's wrap this up, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0053par0270	In particular, France and Germany, it is the common demand of all human beings in their own country to make a more consistent approach, as it is the demand of all citizens in their own country to take a more defiant approach to the logic of the values that these European leaders express -- with a sharp approach, with a treacherous attitude, with their own behavior. It is also on the agenda of the Assembly to give France the necessary response and the necessary response to Macron. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Finally, Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0054par0275	Now, I'm not asking any of you to have an answer, but we've had a meeting with the Deputy Speakers of Parliament in the Speakership. I'm telling you the complaints from our lawmakers that came up at this meeting. Maybe the other Deputy Speakers didn't tell you, given the age of power, I'd say there's a huge reaction to the terminus of the Group Vice President. So I'm not saying this to give you an answer. My request is that I myself, when I speak to Mr. Musavat, be faithful to two plus one. I will not say. I don't mean when Mr. Altay talks, nor when Mr. Olic talks, as a principle, but we have a very intense reaction coming from our MPs. It's like a press conference. So if our Deputy Group President of Turkey is going to make an assessment on the general issues of Turkey, it is best that he hold a press conference. I mean it like that. We missed you, too. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0055par0281	Thank you, Mr. President, but it's also a case of quick interruptions. Because it automatically shuts down, it's actually at the time point...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0054par0282	It's understood as principle, two plus one, a pledge to the Vice President of the Group.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0055par0283	Hopefully, from now on, we'll observe these issues at a time point. Mr. President, last but not least... we're celebrating the Memorial Week. We have stated that we are all together condemning the attacks on the Lord (AS), who were sent as mercy to the worlds and have the best examples in them, and in the language of our national poet Akif.: Whatever the world is, it's his tax; And the blessing of Madyan is upon him. And Madyan (Midian) was a man. O Lord, bring us together in this kingdom. Congratulations to all of us and to all of our nation, Mevlit Kandili. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0056par0292	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There is a group proposal given according to the 19th Article of the Civil Code of the Good PARTI Group, which I shall have read and process, and I shall cast it into your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 27/10/2020 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. The group's Deputy President and İzmir MP Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu have suggested that talks be held in the next session Tuesday (27/10/2020), in an effort to correct the problems of the animal sector and to determine the policies needed to resolve the sector's problems. In order to explain the motive of the proposal, Mr. Fahrettin Yoshüsh... Here you go, Mr. Hill.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0057par0310	Sir, as I begin my words, our former Minister of Health, Mr. Osman Durmis Bey, wishes Allah's mercy, and my condolences to the Turkish nation. We reject and protest the French and Germany's statements against the Turkish nation and Islam. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have been promised the group proposal of our party, and I salute you all. Our country is an agricultural country. The problems of agricultural producers have been increasing in recent years. Recently, we have been among the self-sustaining countries in agricultural production, but we have become a country that has been importing almost every product in recent years due to the negativeness of agricultural policies. In agricultural production, producers in particular in the field of livestock are trapped between input costs and final product sales prices, and gradually escapes from this sector. Investment costs in the sector are rising rapidly over the past two years, as the exchange rate increases. The price of inputs such as electricity, diesel, is indirectly or directly linked to the exchange rate, causing these costs to rise rapidly and the producer to lose. As of November 2019, corn increased by 42 per cent, 72 per cent to soy, 48 per cent to milk oaths, 44 per cent to food oaths, and hay prices increased by over 100 per cent, although the price of raw milk was kept at $2.30, according to the new description. The price of the prims has been raised from 11 cents to 40 cents, and there's nothing to worry about in the industry. Each day, the manufacturer faced input costs each week, and the price of raw milk in return was not increased, so he turned to the dairy cut. This will soon cause a crisis in the milk supply. Turkey also faced the same situation in 2008 and 2010, resulting in having to import. It seems the political will has yet to learn from the crisis ten or twelve years ago. There is no study of reducing the cost of input for milk producers. At least 25 percent of meat costs are food inputs. The manufacturers, unable to provide the annual need for bait from their own sources, are borrowing food from bait factories. Due to the lack of serious control over the feed producer and suppliers, the cost of input in the lure is unfortunately sold to our cattlemen, to our feeders, to our feeders, to the stockers, at exorbitant prices, as an excuse for foreign currency inputs. Hence, thousands of food producers have to give up their livestock. The heads of a county's red meat producer ▪ Monthly cries of meat have been raised by $2. They paid $34 for $32, but it won't save us. Because 1 kilogram of meat is costing a feeder $37, or $3 or $4 per producer kilogram. A calf that weighs 400 kilograms in Karkas costs $1,600, so we're losing between $1,600 and $2,000 per animal. A manufacturer with 100 animals is losing $160,000. ▪ Bait factories, which account for the rise in the tattoo, raise 5 to 7 liras for a 50 kilogram sack of feed in 15 days. In the last two months, the $70 feed has now risen to $90. These raises can't stand life, can't bear it. At this rate, we will find no cows, no milk to drink, no meat to eat, they say. Honourable lawmakers, as well as meat producers, face difficulties due to market balances that have been disrupted by the imported meat formula in response to the rise of input prices. Although meat imports have been said to be reduced, the lack of sufficient support for rising input costs by the meat producer has at times forced him to cut the animals he has at the bottom of the cost. That's why the livestock industry is hurting. The manufacturers are constantly in debt to turn this situation around. These debts must now be reset or reconstructed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0058par0320	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0057par0321	Dear lawmakers, the revitalisation of the livestock industry is a national issue, and our producer needs to be rescued from this vicious cycle. We all know that debt to agricultural loan co-ops has about 10 billion Turkish liras, which is reduced by tax reductions or tax pardons provided in one place in other sectors. That's why we think it would be right to erase these debts. Again, in our Central Management Budget of 2021, the Agriculture Ministry budget has increased by 27 per cent, while unfortunately agriculture and livestock supports are in place. In order to correct the problems of the livestock industry and to determine the policies needed to resolve the sector's problems, I salute you all, according to the Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution of the 98th and Turkish Parliamentary Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0059par0325	Mr. Nicemansur, please.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0060par0328	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, two terrorists who planned a traitor and bloody action in Hatay yesterday were eliminated with the attention and heroism of our intelligence and security forces. The terrorists were trapped in Alexander's too, neutralized. I give our undying thanks to our intelligence and security officers, who have ensured our safety at the expense of their lives, who have not allowed us to enter into a traitorous attack. I say to our police and our citizens who were injured in the explosion, I curse all kinds of terror. Hatay is the city of brotherhood; Hatay is the city of civilization and tolerance; Hatay is the city of liberty. No traitor can burn, attack, harm our brotherhood, unity, and unity, and harm our freedom. My condolences to all Hatayli citizens.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0061par0334	On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Ağrı MP Diryet Dilan Taşdemir. Here you go, Mr. Stonedemir.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0062par0337	Thank you, Mayor. Dear friends, an important part of our country's population deals with agriculture and livestock. We know that animal breeders have serious problems, so we believe that Parliament should take responsibility for these problems as well. Dear friends, in recent years, there has been a serious setback in the world -- especially in developed countries -- while animal production has increased in total agricultural production. The reason for this setback, of course, is the wrong policy. From these wrong policies, animalism has almost reached its end. Prohibitions that have been going on for many years, the increase in bait prices, the transformation of mera fields into Rant areas, are increasingly deepening and deepening the problems that exist. Look, 50% of the bait's raw material is imported. The increase in exchange makes it very difficult for farmers to buy food. Animal breeders don't get these supplements with dollars, but the farmer has to take the bait off the exchange. Most of the time we don't look at the tattoo. Don't look. What you're saying is that farmers are actually forced to look at this foreign currency because of these policies. Again, food prices rose by about 50 per cent in 11 months, with no increase in raw milk prices, while the damaged farmers were forced to cut milk cows. Let it go, I mean, whether the farmers cut off their cows or feed them, they have to do damage to those policies. So even slaughterhouses can only give farmers a day in two or three months. So we're dealing with a power that's trying to solve all these problems with imported policies. There's an understanding that imports living animals, red meat, even hay. I'm afraid domestic animal production stemming from these policies has come to an end. Animalism is going through the most critical period in its history. To overcome this crisis, it needs to be researched as to why the cost of input has risen rather than import policies. We believe that animal breeders should be listened to again. Dear friends, finally... one of the most deeply living provinces of this agriculture and animalism is our province of Pain. In addition, there are serious problems with animal earrings. We visited the stock market last week, and we got some serious complaints from our cattle trade business. You know, the ears of animals are covered with earrings that replace IDs, but these earrings, which are absolutely not allowed to be bought or sold, are sold on the black market. So when people want to sell their animals, they can't find them, or they have to buy these earrings on the black market, and they're provided with earrings that are over tens of times the price. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The president's last...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0063par0345	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0062par0346	So there's a bunch of Rant groups that are forming there, and they're making a lot of money on these earrings, but animal manufacturers are getting seriously damaged. In fact, there are animal traders who can't sell their animals because they can't find earrings. So I believe that both the Department of Agriculture and the Department of Agricultural County should immediately take care of this problem, launch an investigation, and get ahead of this black market. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0063par0349	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Tekirdağ MP Mr. Inspired Özcan Aygun. Here you go, Mr. Aygun.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0064par0352	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the motion to investigate by the good party. I salute your high council with love and respect. Our country is wired in livestock. We've become importers of animals from countries about a tenth of our population. The power is not taking steps to breathe into our manufacturer. The price of raw milk reference has been constant for ten months, and you haven't raised the price of raw milk reference in ten months, but even so, input costs, feed prices are increasing every day. For example, 20 protein milk oaths, when we look at January, the bag price is 80 lira, today it's $110. Again, the price of the heifer's oath in January -- 50 kilograms a torque -- is 72.5 liras today. When we look back at the time, the manufacturer's costs are about 40 percent higher, but when we get to the price of milk, we count where we are. Here, the Milk Council is meeting recently, but other institutions outside the ministers and dairy producers are attending the meeting, and they are meeting to determine the price of milk. There's no original manufacturer; there's the industrialist, there's the ministers, but here's the information that the Treasury and Finance Minister's son-in-law, Colonel, wants the raw milk reference price to remain constant so as not to increase inflation. Where we're coming from, the manufacturer's a mess. See, here we are, talking about the budget for 2021 in the Plan and Budget Commission these days. You're looking at last year's Department of Agriculture budget, agricultural support is $22 billion; there's 40 per cent increase in input costs this year, agricultural support is 22 billion, but you're looking at the Agriculture Ministry budget, up 27 per cent. Who's it up to? Yes, I'm asking, "Who's up?"
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0065par0356	He's on his side.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0064par0357	No farmers, no manufacturers; I suppose, there's an increase in budgets, only in allies, in certain parts. [[Applause from CHP rows]] See, in 2019, 82,000 head sheep were imported. Yeah, you import animals from Czech, Bulgaria, you make them out of land that is less than 20 percent of Turkey, but you're still not satisfied with imports, you're not satisfied with the import lobby, you're just trying to protect the importer. In the past few days, you've reset customs duties in wheat, corn and barley, and it's not enough that the ships are still at the gate. Again, you will bring meat and milk derivatives from Venezuela with zero customs; not enough from Serbia, not enough from Sudan. You will import horse meat from Sudan. And my friends, is the livestock in this country finished, is the production finished? I'm asking you, why can't we make it, why can't we make it? I'm curious.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0066par0362	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0064par0363	Mr. President, I'm packing. Where we're from, the manufacturer's a mess. If you don't put the right policies in the short term, in the middle term, in the long run, we're in a very urgent picture. You don't have projects in the short term, you don't have projects in the middle term, you don't have projects in the long term. You're looking at the Europeans, the men who put their project in the short term, the middle term, the long term... so I'm wondering, what are you going to do about animalism in the short term? You run it by decrees, not by decrees. The Science Board, in the short term, in the middle term, we discuss agriculture in the long term, and you draw the project. That's no way to make a decision. Look, where you're coming from, Tekirdağ Metropolitan Municipality, 26/6/2020, is writing a paper to the Ministry of Agriculture, saying: I want to instill animals in the science, a small head. I'd like to take the burden off the farmer, 26/10/2020, still no answer. Whose side are you on, whose side are you on? I say, as mayor of the city, I want to pay for my farmer's vaccine as Tekirdağ. Where is he? There's no answer. Here's the value you've given to livestock and Turkish farmers, friends; take off the hat, think about it.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0067par0367	I gave him a minute.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0064par0368	Mr. President, I'm packing. Friends, we support the research motion for the good PARTY. Agriculture and animalism need to be put on the main target immediately, and the country's prosperity will pass through agriculture and livestock. The foundation of the national economy is agriculture. I say Mustafa Kemal is the master of the peasant nation. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0068par0372	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Salim İkintcioğlu is a member of the Çanırı MP. Here you go, Mr. İkintcioğlu.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0069par0375	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I begin my remarks, I wish to offer him the grace of God to his grieving family for the death of our 57th Government Minister of Health, our Çanrırlı citizen, Professor Osman Durush Bey. I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group regarding the livestock industry in our country on behalf of the research proposal given by the Good PARTY Group. On this occasion, I salute our great coven. Dear lawmakers, our Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry prepares for the possibility of second wave of pandemics in our country along with the rest of the world. Our activities in the pandemic process as part of food supply increased the number of animals during 2002-2020. We are leading the total number of animal assets among the European Union countries. We're number 2 in the European Union in cattle farming. We're number one in the European Union in small livestock. In total, we are number 1 in the European Union. In the last two years, we have increased the number of cattle by 8 percent; we have increased the number of cattle by 17.2 million in 2018, to 18.6 million in 2020. We increased the number of small animals by 20 percent; we increased the number of animals by 46.1 million in 2018 to 55.1 million in 2020. The National Milk Council announced the recommendation price of raw milk from November 15, 2019, to December 31, 2020. At the price, the raw milk/food parite of 1.50, accepted by all the sector's shareholders, has reached about 1.50 levels. During the first six months of 2020, the raw milk/eater parite averaged 1.35, and in the last few months, the raw milk/food parite averaged at 1.28 levels, despite the cost increases. Due to developments in the pandemic process and world markets, the price of raw milk support has been raised to 40 cents, and the raw milk/food parite has risen to 1.30, to prevent producers from being affected by increased milk production costs. Production of meat, milk and eggs is supported as part of the IPARD programme, which is co-funded by the European Union and our country. At most, 120 milk cows or 250 head of cattle for the production of meat and milk are supported by livestock companies with the maximum capacity of 500 sheep for the small head. Investments worth 500,000 euros are funded by 50 per cent to 70 per cent. As part of the flanked meat, it is supported by modernisation of at most 50,000 broilers. Investments at maximum amount of 250,000 euros are granted between 50 per cent and 70 per cent. In the egg industry, modernisation of existing businesses capable of at least 100,000 egg chickens is supported.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0070par0381	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0069par0382	Investments worth 500,000 euros are funded by 50 per cent to 70 per cent. IPARD supports the construction of stables, stables, henhouses, feed warehouses, and so on, and equipment purchases and project preparation costs for livestock enterprises. The IPARD is paid $2.1 billion in grants, while the IPARD II is still being granted these grants, and so far our 488 million farmers have been granted them. In the time of our EC PARTY governments, we have always been there for our farmers, peasants, and producers, and we will continue to be there for them, to solve their problems, and to support them. On this occasion, I hereby declare that we will not participate in the good party proposal, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0071par0386	I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process, and I shall submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday 27/10/2020 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. On October 27, 2020, Iğdır MP Mr. Habip Abak and his friends (number 9485) suggested that the parliamentary research proposal given to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in order to prevent the outbreak of Enfluanza (group No. 985) and provide the necessary vaccines should be held in a joint session Tuesday (27/10/202020). On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, I promise Mr. Habip, the Iğdır MP, to explain the reason for the proposal. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0072par0400	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. In December 2019, the world met a new pandemic, and we're going through a very difficult and difficult process, and we're going through it. This pandemic has literally hit our country and our geography. 44 million people have been infected in the world, 1 million 165,000 people have lost their lives, and in the country more than 365 thousand people have been infected and nearly 10,000 people have lost their lives, and everyone knows that these numbers are actually much, much higher. Unfortunately, there's a situation in which the Department of Health can't manage the pandemic. Look, managing the pandemic is all about predicting and taking precautions, but despite all our warnings, despite warnings from the Turkish Medical Corps, and really, despite calls from independent physicians, the Ministry of Health has not come close enough to the issue of flu vaccine and has not provided enough vaccines for our country, not enough vaccines for our citizens. About 800,000 vaccines are said to have been brought in, another 500,000, and the total figure is said to be 1,300,000. However, it is estimated that the amount of vaccine our country needs is around 25 million, because we all know that inflation is a flu that infects 1 billion people a year and that 600 to 700,000 people have died due to complications. In particular, in this pandemic period, the recipe for the perfect storm for the person who had the flu plus Covid-19 is described as a serious fear in medical literature. However, our Ministry has unfortunately not taken sufficient measures to provide enough vaccines. For example, let me tell you what other countries have done about it, how they've taken precautions. Britain, with 67 million inhabitants, has stockpiled 30 million doses of vaccine. Again, Iran has stockpiled 7.5 million doses of vaccine moaning under the embargos. Although the Union of Turkish Pharmaceuticals made a deal for 1.5 million doses of this, despite making a deal with a company in the Netherlands, we see that the Ministry is stockpiling 7.5 million doses of vaccines as a result of Iran's involvement in bureaucratic procedures. Germany has the same population as us, and has stockpiled 26 million doses of vaccine. So as far as we can see, there's no problem with vaccines in any of the developed countries, especially over 65 years of age, no lack of access. Greece has no problem reaching flu vaccines, even in Greece, which is struggling with the economic crisis. Whereas in our country, unfortunately, even about 800,000 vaccines, the Charlson criteria, we're dealing with a situation that we can call a definition of the risk of so many risks. You're looking at a person with COAH who can't get to that vaccine or a diabetic person who can't get to the vaccine as well as the cancer patient. However, all those who are prescribed by physicians and whom he sees have to be given a vaccine. Because in this case, if you bring such criteria, it also means interfering with physicians' professional autonomy. In that sense, we say that not only we, but the World Health Organization also said that all people who are older than 6 months should be given flu vaccines. The World Health Organization has already given very serious warnings in July-agustos. Again, on August 7, 2020, the Turkish Medical Association wrote a letter warning that in order to ensure flu vaccines, the vaccines would not be inconvenienced in the future in the fight against pandemics, but we see that the Ministry of Health is not involved in this issue at all, not taking it seriously. And in the end, there's a serious shortage of flu vaccines in the country, and we're seeing that. And how did the AKP do that? With this system of health that he marketed, I'm afraid we've left our health at the mercy of the outside lobby. Look, I'll give you an example: the SSC Pharmaceutical Factory in Tussy Bomonti is opened in 1979, closed in 2005. The Heybeliada Sanatorium opens in 1924, closing in 2005.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0073par0409	Pack it up, Mr. Missing.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0072par0410	Thank you, Mr. President. The same building and property of the same artistic institution is dedicated to the Dianet Foundation, the Dianet Foundation. The Institute of Dr. Refik Saydam Hefsuhahha -- which is a very large institution with serious work, especially in vaccine work -- is established in 1928, which is closed by your power in 2011 by the KHK. And whose mercy does he leave us at? Look, the five pharmaceutical companies of the world -- which countries own -- are Pfizer, Novartis and Roche to Switzerland, Merck&Co to the U.S.A., and the company where we brought the 800,000 vaccines is a French company in Sanofi. Look, Mr. President says, let's boycott the French goods. Let's hope he doesn't boycott these vaccines, because we have 800,000 of them, at least they don't rot in the warehouses. Let's say in particular that a parliamentary investigation into this problem is really essential to the public for the detection of these circumstances, for the sharing of transparency information. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Once again, I stress that all parties must support our research to ensure a life-sustaining vaccine, which is the main source of protective health care, a parliamentary investigation; we expect all of your support. Thank you, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0074par0417	On behalf of the Good PARTY Group, I promise Mr. Aylin Gutsy.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0075par0419	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Last time I spoke to you, you made Turkey disappear. I told you. Now there's another one added to the absences, the flu vaccine. This absence will seriously damage public health that is already in crisis and will unfortunately increase the burdens on our health care institutions. Since there is no holistic and preventive pandemic management, after the unmanageable corona process, in the coming months -- I regret to say -- there will also be an outbreak of inflation, dear friends. The World Health Organization has recommended that everyone be vaccinated for six months, and all the guides to diabetes and heart are necessary. It says that there are at least 15 million people in the risk group, but we have 1.2 million vaccines. Now, we've warned you over and over again, NGOs warned you; you've read what you know. The lists of flu vaccines collected in pharmacies during September and October have been deleted, and the flu vaccine has been rationed as of today. Our citizens' rights were violated. Our citizens, who have lost state support, good living conditions, are now entitled to the benefit of protective health care measures, and I regret to say that. There's a score -- it's just been mentioned -- a score you've brought for the vaccine in your report card -- that's the charlson risk score. The problem is to tell the citizen on the street. I'm not going to tell you about the score because Mr. Health Minister came out one day and said: "Take your own precautions. " The citizen reads everything and investigates to take his own precautions. Everyone's talking about the score and trying to find a solution; the government's looking for the government, the citizens, and unfortunately they don't. The doctor directs it to the computer, the computer looks at the system, the citizen, from there to the pharmacy, the pharmacist to the doctor; in a fasitin, unfortunately to the citizen. I don't know where that weirdo scored off scientific infrastructure and based on arbitrary criteria came from, but I do know one thing: that's not how it's done. Our elderly, diabetes patients, chronic heart disease, lung patients, patients who are on immunosuppressants, many patients in the high risk group today have been deprived of the vaccine according to this score. We have a tragic situation -- I'm very sad, rather tragic -- that we haven't been able to provide our flu vaccine yet, and you're giving out imaginary dates for the coronavirus vaccine, so I'm sad, I'm really sorry. Why are we like this? Let's not look at each other, dear friends. Now you've shut down our vaccines and research institutes, which are the source of our past past successes, which you've failed to praise on the Ministry of Health website. In 2004, you shut down our vaccine production institute and stopped Turkey's capacity to produce vaccines. You didn't set aside a budget to modernize the Refik Saydam Hfzishaha Institute in accordance with the needs of the age. You said it's cheaper to get vaccines from outside. Why do we need to produce them? And when the vaccine was developed by the state during our history, when the institution, which did not receive investment during the AK PARTI administrations, naturally stayed behind, you said, "This institution is useless, it's expensive." You said, "It's expensive." You closed it in 2011.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0076par0426	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0075par0427	Thank you. Meanwhile, you destroy all corporate memory, a hundred years of knowledge and experience, dear friends. Look, health is too important to get into politics. We're not doing politics here, we're telling you the truth, please consider what we're saying here. There's no trade in health, no imports, dear friends, no economics. The vaccine can't be produced, he's wooing, the citizen's inoculated. This doesn't look like an onion, potato tails, and you did the same thing in agriculture, but I'd like you to do what you need to do with your health, and please set up a research commission. That's why I'm inviting all of you here to be together. We have the Day of the Republic of October 29th, and I sincerely wish to celebrate the Republic of our great nation. The Turkish nation will claim the republic; the republic will live forever with its great Turkish nation. Blessed be Mevlit Kandili, blessed be Mevlit Kandili, and blessed be Mevlit Kandili. May God Almighty bless our nation for the days in which justice, law, and blessings are distributed in the coming days. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0077par0434	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0078par0436	Dear Regents, I have received the advice of the HDP (HDP) and I salute the grand delegation. We're going through a pandemic period that holds the world in its grip. We see the uncontrollably spread of the plague, we worry, we worry, but we're still trying to live. And unfortunately, we're on our own in the struggle, why? The data's out there. We've had a new normal at the center of our lives for eight months, but we see that the new normal approach to power has abnormal consequences. He is not in charge of managing the plague, controlling it, and treating the sick. Every day, the number of patients that you don't understand the difference doesn't really leave you with any other words. One thing is very clear: Turkey is not governed today, it's drifting like a locked ship, and the captain is desperate. We see prosperity diminishing, the economy shrinking, the freedoms falling because the country is run like an anonymous company. I must say, in Turkey, the social state has been dying in intensive care for 18 years, but no breathers. You see, there are reports of quarantines from many provinces every day, and there are darkness in these houses. Do you have any bread? Do you have any medicine? No one's asking. The system that favours the market, not the human, does not offer a solution. There's no help for a desperate citizen because without a social state, there's no health. Unfortunately, the health field, which is no longer a public service, no longer carries that burden, is now paralyzed by the health system in Turkey. Let's not forget that the health system is one. Look, we've been having an endless discussion of vaccines for months, so don't say it's just a vaccine. We have 34 million citizens in the risk group today with chronic illness -- like heart, diabetes, kidneys, and lungs -- waiting for the vaccine, but it turns out the vaccines on the Ministry of Health's payroll are not in the market. Because the health system doesn't have that kind of preparation, so no one's heard the citizen's voice. Look, by the way, let's just hand it to you, the government has created something that's not so much, and it's going to be a vaccine that gets five points. So 34 million chronic patients give a test on their lives in order to become a simple flu vaccine. What was the result? At the same time, those with heart, diabetes, and cancer failed to score a vaccine and were unable to vaccinate. Now, can you trust this order that makes you worse than death? A country that's been run by such a rotten system, would you say it's a developed country? Of course you can't. In that case, our citizens who are at risk say to whom will be given the flu vaccine that has not been given to us? They ask, "Who will be given it if we are not given it?" They ask, "They are not wrong."
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0079par0442	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0078par0443	Because the tenders are being given in this country; the civil servant is being discriminated against in the hiring of workers, so do not separate the citizen from the vaccine. We're at the end of the line. The pandemic process actually reveals the whole truth of the distorted system in Turkey. I'm calling out to the directors here, without any excuse, please, as a whole Congress, let's all work together to solve this problem. Before long, let's increase the number of flu vaccines in our country and not cause chaos. Give the risk groups enough flu vaccines and apply them; it won't save human health, and I'll remind you once again. Otherwise, leave your positions as those who created this crooked system and left Turkey at the mercy of the international market. At the end of my words, despite all the negativity, the health workers who labored with their superhuman efforts salute here once again, and say that the republic will live forever, and celebrate your Republic Day, and pay my respects and respect.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0080par0447	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Nevşehir MP Mustafa Elgöz. Here you go, Mr. Smarty-pants.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0081par0450	Mr. President, my dear Court, my dear fellow congressmen, and my dear nation, I salute you with respect. I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY group. Congressmans, who are only civilized to themselves, who claim to respect the so-called civil, human rights and beliefs, and, in particular, the drooling leader of France, who is sent as a mercy to the world, mercy, compassion, good morality, our leader, our guide, our life guide, our blood, the Prophet. European view: Turkish means Muslim; Muslim means Turkish. Dear MPs, one nation, we are always with our two states, our Azerbaijan brothers, financially and spiritually. Turkey is determined to use all its resources to break this bloody, unfair, illegal game. With the abandonment of the Azerbaijan lands occupied by Armenia, the region will have peace and quiet. Otherwise, the terror state, the invader Armenia, will surely see its rightful end. As long as the world stays quiet, we will always be there for our friends. My dear fellow MPs, our former Minister of Health, 21st and 23rd-century National Movement Party Kırıkkale MP Osman Durmuş to Allah's mercy; and my condolences to his family, our nation and the National Movement Party. Ladies and gentlemen, the world has been dealing with the Covid-19 epidemic for months. Turkey continues to receive recognition from the world's public and the World Health Organization through its measures, practices, work. I give thanks to our dedicated health workers who serve to protect human health, Mr. Fahrettin, our health minister who directs this process, informs our nation on the spot, on behalf of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, myself and my nation. In order to prevent inflation, the flu disease, the health department's authorities have done what they always do to ensure that seasonal density is best recovered. According to the health priority of vaccines, work continues to reach our nation. The health of our nation, which has received health care through free modern health infrastructure, has, above all, been the priority of our EC PARTI governments for 18 years, when we have patients waiting on stretchers, not in the old Turkey, who can't find medicine doctors. I hereby observe the rule of cleansing, mask, distance, and remind you of our joint responsibility to support both our dedicated health workers and to protect the health of the community. I'd like to congratulate you on Mevlit night and our New Nebi Week with my deepest feelings. As we approach the 100th year of our Republic, we work together with 83 million of our citizens in the spirit of resurrection, future, and future. Happy 97th anniversary of our Republic.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0082par0459	Pick it up, Mr. Smarty-pants.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0081par0460	For the sake of our country's independence, the unity of our nation, and the integrity of our nation, I give thanks and thanks to our heroic martyrs, the martyrs, the martyrs, who have made this land with his blood, his life, and his life, who have run for their lives, to die for the sake of our nation's unity and unity. I salute our Veteran Assembly and my beloved nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0083par0464	I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process, and I shall submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 27/10/2020 (now), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. Hatay MP and his friends handed over to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 26/10/2020 to address the reasons and consequences of the increasingly deepening and spreading informal Saudi embargo, which was given to the Turkish Parliament on 26/10/2020 to determine measures against this embargo. lu) The general debate motion has been proposed to be taken ahead of other proposals, and their talks will be held on Tuesday 27/10/2020. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Hatay MP Mehmet Güzelmansur to explain the reason for the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Nicemansur.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0084par0478	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the general motion to discuss the informal embargo that Saudi Arabia has imposed on Turkish goods for a year and a half. I salute the General Assembly and all our citizens. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My fellow lawmakers, Saudi Arabia is a friend and Muslim country where we signed a treaty of friendship in 1929, a country where we had 90 years of bilateral relations, a country with over $6 billion in trade volumes. The two countries have developed mutual brotherhood, ties, but we've been having a political crisis for the past few years. For why and for what reason, relationships have been brought to this stage, they must be questioned. With this political crisis, Saudi Arabia launched a veiled embargo against Turkey a year and a half ago. Full count on Turkish goods in customs, slowing down access to our products. Turkish goods are kept waiting until they rot in ports, decomposition, and in ten days, the fruit of vegetables offered to the market is only going to market in thirty days. The waiting vegetables and fruit, that's how it's done, that's how it's rotted in customs. Many companies in Saudi Arabia, from supermarket chains to fast food chains, explain whether they will sell Turkish products or not. Social media accounts have announced Turkish brands and are asked not to receive them. Saudi importers are told not to buy from Turkey. Our contractors are not employed in Saudi Arabia. Do not go to Turkey to the citizens of Saudi Arabia. The calls are being made. At the present point, Turkish barbers in Saudi Arabia are told not to go to their restaurant. This troubles our 45,000 citizens of Hatay, who live in Arabia, a crushing majority of them are barbers and restaurants. My fellow lawmakers, in a nutshell, the embargo that started a year and a half ago in a veil has become public since last month. The embargo of the kingdom has begun to descend to the public. So, dear lawmakers, let's see what power does in the face of all these developments: First, there is no Ambargo. It has been denied. Then, for a long time, he was silent. Finally, we laugh at the embargo. I, now, ask power here: Is there anything to laugh about in the economic crisis we're in, the risk of losing our exports to Saudi Arabia, which is the 15th country we've exported the most? Saudi Arabia is an indispensable market for Hatay. Is it funny to you that Hatay, whose economic paralysis you have narrowed their exports by closing their doors with the wrong Syrian policy, is also likely to lose the Saudi Arabia market? What's to laugh about our products being kept in ports for weeks, rotting, being thrown out of the trash, the exporter, the farmer, losing hundreds of thousands of dollars? Again, do you laugh at our truck drivers, our damaged movers, who are miserable because they've been stuck in ports for weeks? Why are you laughing at Greek products replacing Turkish goods on shelves and plates in Saudi Arabia? Every Hatayite expat working in Saudi Arabia sends his family an average of $2,000 a month, so our expats provide a deposit of $768, 000 a year, almost 150,000 people live on it. Is the danger of 150,000 people losing their income a laughing matter? Dear lawmakers, this embargo issue is not a matter of laughing at, but of serious concern, from our exporter to our mover, from our farmer to our producer, from our tourism to our contractors, from our truck drivers to our workers, from all sectors, from our expats. Turkey's most important business organisations, such as TÜSİAD, TOBB, TESK, TİM, DEAC, are also waiting for concrete steps to be taken to resolve the embargo issue through dialogue. Based on his performance so far, we can safely say that power is not the solution to this embargo problem. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0085par0486	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0084par0487	This problem can only be solved with my sanity, dialogue, common sense, and earnestness. Therefore, the only and correct address is Parliament. Therefore, I'd like to thank you all for your support in bringing up our motion and resolving the embargo issue under the roof of Congress. Yours truly.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0085par0490	On behalf of the Good PARTY Group, Mersin MP Mr. Zeki Hakan Sadalı. Here you are, Mr. Smart Hakan Sedali.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0086par0493	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, with important services to our country, I offer my condolences to our former Minister of Health, the late Osman Durmus, to Allah's mercy, to his family, and to the nation's Movement Party. Dear MPs, today we're talking about the boycott call of the President of the Saudi Arabia Chamber of Commerce. But we've all been living together for the last year, the derivatives of this boycott and the embargo, the way the Turkish products slow down at the entrance of Saudi Arabia customs, the pause, the full count, were wearing out the Turkish exporter. It is now being called on to impose boycotts on everything, whether it be imports, investments and tourism on Turkey. Markets are marked for boycotts. We don't just suffer economic losses, our reputation is being undermined. We also have 45,000 citizens who export to Saudi Arabia who trade there, trade in trade, trade in trade, take our citizens' rights, avoid trade, and even become targets. Let's not forget that a strong government is a government that doesn't give away its citizens' rights, that no matter where they are in the world, they don't get their citizens crushed. We can't do that just by challenging Turkish television; we understand once again the importance of public diplomacy. The embargo practices, which have been under wraps for the past year, have been fully embargoed by silence. Failure to bring international political interests along with international economic interests is a diplomatic failure. The Turkish business world has repeatedly said it will not be afraid of any competition based on competition. It falls to power here, to take steps to prevent free and fair trade from being blocked by political deception and to comfort our businessmen. Government policy has to be long-term and consistent. If a state changes its long-term policies with arbitrary, momentary decisions, it cannot establish strong political and economic relations and achieve economic and international acceptance. Economic and political relations are independent, but they trigger each other. The EC PARTY could not and could not properly plan and continue its long-term political investments and relations, now paying the price with precious loneliness. The Turkish economy is paying the economic bill for this precious solitude, and it will continue to pay. If the subtleties of diplomacy are sacrificed to domestic politics, we lose the position of being a respectable and decisive country in the world if relations and goals are constantly changed in foreign policy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0087par0499	Pack it up. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0086par0500	Recently, the wrong economic policies of the EC PARTY governments have weakened the Turkish economy, the economic approach to consumption over debt, rather than self-sustaining in agriculture, rather than producing. It would be fanciful to expect that this weakness, economic and financial dependency, not to be abused by our competitors, and that's exactly what this boycott rudeness is all about. We are concerned that the reflections of this boycott are seen in other Gulf countries as well as in North African countries such as Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia. He says we will support the request to open a general meeting so that the embargo can be further deepened and spread, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0087par0503	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Adana MP Tulay Hatimlari Oruç. Here you go, Mr. Fast.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0088par0506	Mr. President, if I remember correctly, it was 2007, and we made a visit to Egypt. At that time, we were welcomed by Egyptian citizens because we were leaving Turkey, and we came across two things that journalists carried to the corners of Turkey. First, the Arab community, the world, began to give its name publicly in the name of its children. The second thing I remember is that football player Hasan Şash. Which is how they described Turkey. That's how they remembered it. The word "Shesh Hasan Shesh" was very common on the street. This was a sign of something, a quote from Turkey's Central East and North African policies when the AKP came to power. Of course, I'm going to have to open this parenthesis before I go on with my words. Some in Turkey had drawn a picture of the various democratic openings, such as the Kurdish issue, the Alevi problem, with zero problem policies, but this painting -- at that time we were expressing -- was nothing more than a role of fairy godmother to take over the state step by step. We've figured that out, both as peoples of Turkey and as peoples of the Middle East and North Africa. Well, it's said in Turkey right now: where from, where from. Here, we've got to say it came from there. We've expressed the wrong policies over and over again from this platform. The war that began in Syria today, the position taken in Libya, the stance taken in the battle of Azerbaijan-Ermenistan, all these attitudes have shown that this is where we come in with the war politics, the spreading politics, military policies that the AKP's power in Turkey has implemented. Today, the Arab streets, I assure you, not even a Turkish man wants to see them. Perhaps Turkey didn't take the statement made by the Riyadh Chamber of Commerce seriously first, but at the point of today's arrival, Turkey's goods are no longer being taken in the Saudi Arabia area. The barber, the restaurant manager -- who is the most important part of this sector -- is the workers of Turkey, especially Adana, Mersin, Hatay Arabs -- will all be out of work now, and all of them will be out of business and no foreign currency entries to Turkey. However, in the construction industry, the carpet, electrical electronics, Turkey in many areas, for example, is a country ranked as the 15th ranking of Arabia in exports. Only Arabia? No.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0089par0511	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0088par0512	Morocco, Tunisia, Algeria, United Arab Emirates are the countries that maintain this boycott. It seems that different countries will participate in these boycott calls. And what we have to say from here is that the AKP's government has followed a foreign policy that affects all citizens living in Turkey. Today it is unacceptable for people to try to be disciplined by hunger, poverty, to deepen the country's deepened economic crisis process with such boycotts. The government has completely lost its ability to resolve this issue. Parliament should take initiative and we would also like to say that we will vote in a positive light on the motion presented.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0089par0514	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Şanlıurfa MP Halil Özcan. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0090par0517	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's group proposal. I hereby salute the General Assembly. At the beginning of my words, I bless Mr. Osman Durmis, our former Minister of Health, whom we send to eternity. I'm also congratulating our heroic security forces, who have prevented a major disaster by yesterday's terrorist organization, knowing ahead of time that PKK had planned a terrorist attack on Alexander. Dear MPs, it has been two years since the death of Saudi journalist Cemal Spoonçı, who had been officially killed at the consulate, who had never been heard from again since Saudi Arabia's consulate. I ask for God's mercy. This incident that took place on our country's land could never be covered. Our state and government, especially our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has done its part as a country to fulfill the need to be a state of law and to expose the perpetrators, and the Turkish courts have uncovered the events in all its dimensions. Knowing that it could cause more trouble for our country later on, Turkey has been able to shed light on the incident and prove that the brutal murder was committed within the knowledge of Saudi Arabia. Dear lawmakers, we have been following all aspects of the non-official embargo in Saudi Arabia in recent days. In particular, I would like to say that our cultural and historical connection with the people of Saudi Arabia is strong and effective to eliminate this embargo decision. Our Saudi Arabia brothers' sympathy for Turkey and their love for our President cannot be ignored. We observe that the Saudi Arabia government sees it clearly, knows it, and is taking its steps based on these balances. This veiled embargo, which is intended to be done in the commercial area, is actually a political decision. Our government is never indifferent to the issue, and its statements, which our government and our state are silent, are literally absurd and unregistered. From the beginning of the process, to this day, Mr. President and our government have continued its attempts to deal with Saudi Arabia state officials and are following the process. In addition, the TOBB, TÜSİAD, TESK, POSIAD, DEAK, TIM, has made a new attempt to lead important civil society and professions.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0091par0522	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0090par0523	In a joint statement, representatives of the organisation calling for constructive dialogue with Saudi Arabia expressed that the process could be corrected by mutually sound study. In addition, the data of the National Bureau of Statistics in Saudi Arabia indicates that the embargo does not hold. The value of Saudi Arabia's imports from Turkey rose from 693.4 million riyals in July to 833.6 million in August. These figures have made Turkey the 9th largest exporter of Saudi Arabia. However, the call for Qatar and friendly countries to buy Turkish goods has also psychologically affected the region. Precious MPs, our state and our government, the business that operates with all its power, are with our people. The process is being followed, and both our State Department and our Trade Ministry and our government's initiatives continue. Hopefully, the call for dialogue from the business world to Arabia will be answered, and this veiled embargo, a political decision, will be wiped out completely. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] No one should be afraid or worried. This process is temporary and unsustainable. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0092par0530	I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday 27/10/2020 (now), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Vice President Until the meeting of the General Assembly on Tuesday (October 27, 2020) of the Law Proposal No. 221 (now) on Tuesday (October 27, 2020) completes its talks on Tuesday (October 27, 2020), it is Wednesday (October 28th 2020) at 14 p.m. in the absence of the talks of Law Proposal No. 221 on Tuesday (October 2020). The meeting at 00 has been proposed to discuss the issues of control in this merger, and to continue working until the meeting of Law Proposal 221 is completed, in the part of "The Law Offers and Other Affairs From Commissions" on the agenda, which is not discussed. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, I promise Mr. Ramadan Can.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0093par0544	You name it, I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0094par0545	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. We continue our talks from the second part of the Law Proposal 221 in our group proposal, and we plan to end it today. If it's not over today, we're going to work tomorrow because it's official vacation, and we're going to finish it tomorrow. October 29th is an official holiday. That's the main theme of our group proposal. On the other hand, I wish God's mercy to our late Osman Durmis, who has served our country well. I'm sorry for our cranberry, our country, and the people who love it. He says to his relatives, "May God give patience to his loved ones. I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0095par0549	İstanbul MP Engin Altay on behalf of Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0096par0552	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you and the Grand General Assembly. I made a commitment to the AK PARTY group proposal. I bought it for: In fact, if Mr. Life had spent it, maybe I would have, but I'm glad he did, too; once, let's make one mistake right: Mr. Can, tomorrow at 13 o'clock. The official holiday will begin from 00, and Turkey will be informed of the inclusion of our Grand National Assembly...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0097par0555	14. It's opening at 00.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0096par0556	Here comes the holiday, it's not supposed to open, it's ethical.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0097par0557	That's why we're making the group proposal.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0096par0558	...the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is on Tuesday at 3:00 p.m., Wednesdays and Thursdays at 14 p.m. unless it finds a formal holiday. It opens at 00, 21. It closes at 00. It says. I'm not looking to make polemics here, but what I just said at the opening, and what the Ministry of Interior sent to the governors of 81 provinces and shared in public, it would be better if you didn't celebrate this Republic Day. The fact that he brings a proposal for the meeting of the General Assembly at 00, confirms our concern for some of the AK PARTI.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0098par0560	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0096par0561	So, sir, here's the thing: tomorrow at 1:00 or 14. I know it's -- I know it's -- Turkey is starting Republic Day. On the most blessed day of Republic Day, which is the reason we are all here, it was not appropriate to gather the House with a common law meeting, and I say this, why are you angry, what's the big deal? It's the right thing to do. [[Applause from CHP rows]] However, the proposed law on the ongoing hobby gardens and the amendment of some laws is a proposal that the Republican People's Party considers as a principle, and again, as a principle, we do not find it right for the Assembly to work in order to ensure that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in the holiday process, in which the nation, hopefully, will celebrate its enthusiasm. So we said, as a party, that at the point of the completion of this law today, we're going to make a sincere contribution, we're going to vote, we're probably going to vote positive, because I've learned that the AK PARTY is withdrawing a few articles, and we're going to be happy to withdraw them. I don't think it's appropriate to say, "Oh, we'll work on the holidays tomorrow." I salute the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0099par0566	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0096par0567	Yeah, come on, polemic, that's it.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0100par0568	How do you respond to that? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0101par0573	Mr. President, when there are unnecessary criticisms about the proposal to the EC PARTI Group and those sentences are being used by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the conditions for the enthusiastic celebration of our republic, we must, of course, respond to derogatory sentences, such as the following, referring to the methods and fundamentals of attention in the conditions of the epidemic. These have nothing to do with the truth. I have here the generalization of the Ministry of Interior as a result of the celebration of Republic Day until the end of our Republic Day, with enthusiasm and excitement throughout the country. These incriminating sentences are not true. Besides, we're all celebrating October 29th, we're here, we're here tomorrow, we're here as a group, we're here Thursday, we're here on October 29th. So there's a proposal for the end of this law tomorrow, if it doesn't end today, about the law that the nation has been waiting for.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0100par0575	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0101par0576	Of course it is. So we offer it to the House's discretion. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0100par0579	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0102par0581	Thank you. Mr. President, I also said to the respected members of the EC PARTY, the AK PARTY base, that some people have this obsession with the AK PARTY. Look, Mr. Akbasoglu will remember very well, I think four or five years ago, there was a bill proposal about the holidays, and even the reason for it was that the AK PARTI was: We'll take the holidays from the stadiums, the holidays in the streets, the public in the squares. In fact, you were a little criticized at the time, and I said, "God exists, there's a logic to it." Now the Home Secretary says, sir, that you will celebrate the holidays as the governors and the governors allow. Otherwise, I will take the necessary strict measures against any holiday event. So I pointed out that it was wrong. Appreciation belongs to our beloved nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0103par0586	I say the Republic is our honor, our honor.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0104par0587	Yeah.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0103par0588	It is our duty to keep the Republic alive.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0105par0589	Yeah.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0103par0590	The Republic is the biggest event in Turkish history. Let's drop it. Let's move on.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0106par0593	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0103par0594	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0106par0595	Our Ministry of Internal Affairs is a general...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0103par0599	I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0106par0600	But, Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0103par0601	The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has its thesis that the anti-Islamic statements of French President Macron have been exposed, and I read: ▪ To the General Assembly of Turkey's Grand National Assembly Anyone who resorts to words that could lead to devastating conflicts between beliefs and societies, especially to achieve their political goals, to pursue their power, and to promote the conflicts they are involved in, not just the masses they claim to represent, but a crime that will deeply affect all humanity. Unfortunately, in recent times, such a diseased statement has been expressed in the statements and actions of French President Emmanuel Macron. In its reckless acts of supporting freedom of expression, its global consequences trigger a conflict, a rift, that can affect a person deeply and negatively from every belief. It is clear that recent events in France and the vile acts of terror that have upset all of us deeply, all of humanity, and the fight against terrorism, which has forced the close cooperation of all religion, language and race on the scale of Europe and again. The consequences of a religion and the hatred and discrimination of those who believe in the religion of billions around the world will be no different than the results of the dirty minds who plan and execute vile acts of terrorism. The point to be seriously focused on is that democracy, human rights, rule of law, and pluralism are becoming a single example of the toxic climate that leads to racism and Islam and gain legitimacy and prevalence through heads of state and some politicians. Representatives of the political parties represented by the Turkish Grand National Assembly are French President Emmanuel Macron's representatives of Islam, his beloved Prophet. We strongly expose and expose Muhammad's provocative, disrespectful, and dangerous rhetoric against Muslims -- leaders of the world of understanding, politicians, thinkers, artists, and social groups -- to stand up for common sense and peace in the face of these ugly attitudes. I'd like to submit to the General Assembly's approval that this statement be voted in and issued in the Official Gazette. I submit the thesis to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Dear MPs, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be put on the agenda, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since 02/08/2018 dates and (2/915) primary date number 31.05.2006 Dates and 5510 Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 01.07.1976 Dated and 2022 Aged Economist, I shall submit my proposal to the General Assembly on the Day of Human Rights on Addicts on the Monthly Connecting to Weak and Lonely Turkish Citizens (Employees, Seniors, and Investigators, Payment for Helping Indigents) and Payment of General Health Insurance Act 01.07.1976 Yours truly. 21/01/2019 Lütfi Spooner, you said something urgent. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0107par0629	Thank you, Mr. President. Our city of civilization and tolerance, Hatay, has come to the attention of events that have been unfolding in recent days. We see terrorist attacks that started with forest fires, the two terrorists who were preparing for action last night, are looking to be taken dead by the attention of our security forces, and to display disaster scenarios of some of the focus in Hatay, with forest fires starting again today. The Hatays have paid heavy prices to preserve their national assets until now. The Hatays have become one heart for Turkish nation's will and future under the moon-star flag against those who try to chain the state's existence to the nation's unity, the rotten ones who try to break our peace by ignoring the national spirit, and try to drown our brotherhood. Hatay is home. The Turkish nation will not surrender to terrorism.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0108par0635	On the motion, the bidder is Balıkesir MP Ahmet Akin. Here you go, Mr. Akin.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0109par0638	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you with love. First of all, winter is coming, winter is at the door, and believe me, our citizens are wondering how we're going to get through this winter. Everything came at the cost of fire, and we're already in a pandemic process, and it's still going on, but you know what you said now that we've started the normalization process. Our people are in real trouble. So, as Mr. President told you, I suggest you go down to the streets, go down to the markets, go down to the markets and listen to the people there. Our citizen is in real trouble. See, now, at the beginning of this year -- just at the beginning of this year -- three years, not five years ago -- the shade of coal was 1,200 liras, now 1,400 liras: from this year's beginning to this year, the wood was $600, now 800 liras. So a citizen has to put $2,200 in his pocket so he can pay for it. Now the question is, when the minimum wager gives them to you, you have 124 lira left in your pocket. For God's sake, put your hands on your conscience, what will our minimum-paying citizen do after paying for them? What's the pensioner gonna do, our needy pensioner? He's going to put all his salary in wood, coal. Now, let's see what the picture looks like in electricity and natural gas. Look, here's the painting, the natural gas and electricity of a family of four. Here, in 2017, it paid 140 liras for natural gas, and now it's up to 250 liras; up from 140 liras to 250 liras, 80 per cent. Electricity went from 101 to 172 lira, increase 70 percent. The question here is, which officer, which worker, which employee has increased so much that they can afford it? And on top of that, you're making fun of people, and you're saying, "Well, sir, according to TÜİK, that's inflation, that's... When you walk around the market, go into an aunt's arm, go ask. Aunty, the power says 11% of inflation. Where do they live? That's why we say it's good for everyone to be in the market because you listen to people's troubles. At the same time, imagine a power that has been in power for years, that he and his ruling partner are campaigning for Hangover Bread. Well, the Hangda Bread Campaign, but here's the confession of that, at the end of the 18-year-old government's failure to govern, inept policies, our nation is on the hook. You know what that means? Unfortunately, in the next election, our citizen, who we need for this hanging bread, will teach you such a lesson that you will see that you will fight, let alone power in the upcoming elections, even to stand against the opposition.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0110par0644	Bravo.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0109par0645	Now, we've prepared a law proposal. With this bill, we're contributing 155 lira to those in need, 155 liras. Our citizens are watching everyone. All my fellow lawmakers who put their hands on your conscience, with your 155 lira support here, both our pensioner and our borrower will have seen a warm state's hand in this winter, while in this black winter and in the dark, he will have felt the compassion of the state. If you all raise your hands together here, support this offer, we'll bring it up and comfort our citizens.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0111par0646	We've put a monthly contract on our 65-year-old, needy, homeless citizens. At the same time, we're already doing coal and burn help from the welfare foundation.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0109par0647	I don't think anyone here is going to say no, but I am speaking to my friends who love their homeland and their nation. Besides, friends, the Republic of Turkey can't be ruled. Look, the dollar's already past $8, euro's running 10 lira, unemployment is breaking records, there's a hidden unemployment, we're facing an economic crisis, but the Minister of the country says: for God's sake, Mr. Secretary, get out of the palace, go to the street, see if there's a crisis in the palace, there's a crisis in the country. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, dear friends, you say good news, good news, and good news, we have an offer for you: now give this good news to our citizens. How do you project it? When you will come out, you will say, "We gave you good news in the gas, and we gave you good news in it, and we gave you good news in it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0112par0653	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0109par0654	We'll have all the good news for our country, for our nation, but let's have some of that good news for the citizens. Our deals on the sale are pending right now. I just told you, black winter's at the door, we need to touch this citizen. This many MPs here are here with our nation's votes. We're here to hand over their rights, their law, and their justice. Our proposal is to sit at the table with Russia as soon as possible, put these contracts ahead of schedule and negotiate the price. Download the VAT to 1 percent of electricity and natural gas, remove the OTV, remove the TRT portion of electricity, transparency the bills, activate the energy co-ops and open them up. In our country, in energy, I'm afraid you've left our people out of control. In your energy policies, you see 83 million of our citizens as customers, and you're putting all the weight on this nation. So I say, let's put this on the agenda, and let's be a salve to people's wounds. Thank you all.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0113par0657	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0114par0658	Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0113par0661	Thank you. The Republican People's Party orator, who has just spoken, has made a statement concerning the Hanger Bread Campaign, which our President has launched a long time ago, that the municipality is in need of bread. Last week, and this week, our President-General has repeated his opinion about this, rephrased it, at group meetings, but I think it would be helpful for us to talk about it after that statement. The bread tradition on the hanger is one of the most beautiful examples of otherism in Turkish-Islam civilization. The other is a matter of thinking about others in the end, with no interest at all. It's very sad that the leader of the sovereign movement, which has dedicated itself to the existence of the Turkish nation, has launched a campaign that has been under way for a long period of time, or, to say the least, is not understood. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0115par0666	Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0113par0667	Even if you're the richest country in the world, even if you're the most prosperous country, you can't really be a civilized country without a sense of thinking in front of your own interests. The whole point of the National Movement Party is to make the Turkish nation capable of compassion and justice in the world; we have no other purpose. I repeat that we are deeply sorry that this purpose and this kind of activities are not understood -- some are not understood -- and even that this is being used in Turkey as a means of abuse in the name of the opposition in our country.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0115par0669	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0116par0671	Thank you, Mr. President. I listened carefully to my colleague. We are not here to question Mr. State Gardener's intentions for the hanging bread. We're here to point out that Mr. Gardeny's tradition, an Anatolian tradition, is that tradition is continuous, that when needed, it's already revealed. There's tradition. Tradition, for example, is not about maintaining a subject every day; it's about needs, supply demand. In short -- I don't want to take up too much of the time of the council -- Mr. Gardeny's Hangover Project, the initiative is never vilified. Without a doubt, a contribution to the needy is essential to the continuation of a tradition. We'd like to point out that the government -- we don't mean Mr. Garden -- is that the work that needs to be done in the fight against Covid-19 is not done in the time and when it needs to be done, that a gap is born because of the government's practices, and that the people are in need of bread. That's all there is to it. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit01spe0117par0677	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0117par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 10th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss the issues of control, but we move to the part of the agenda with the proposals of the law and other tasks from the Commission. We're moving on to the work part. We will resume the talks of Aydın MP Metin Yavuz and 60 MPs in the Ministry of Law and Agriculture, Forest Village Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. The 8th Union, dated 21/10/2020, completed the vote of Article 221 of the first chapter of the Law Proposal, which was considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second chapter covers the 17th to 35th article. On behalf of the Kayseri Group, Mr. Dursun Atash will speak on the second part of the proposal. Here you are, Mr. Paperman.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0118par0015	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI Group on the second part of the Law Proposal on Meeting Foods, Agriculture, Forestry Area. I salute the General Assembly. Before I begin my words, I salute our former Minister of Health, Osman Durmis Sir, God rest his soul, God bless his loved ones, his family, and his place will be in heaven. Dear lawmakers, the proposed proposal is full of many shortcomings, even though there are favourable parts such as strict control of the agricultural land, sanctions to ensure food safety, and support for domestic tobacco. Rather than the laws organised by the proposal, Turkish agriculture has boned problems waiting to be organised. Rather than solving agricultural problems, the government is busy with public opinion with artificial agendas. AS A GOOD PARTY, we would like to make arrangements in order to take into account the warnings that we have made or received from this platform, but unfortunately, the AKP has brought this offer instead of the laws that our farmers, farmers, occupational organizations, and civil society organisations have been waiting for, regardless of their views. Therefore, the offer will not give what was asked, nor will it make the farmer breathe. Dear lawmakers have demonstrated the pandemic process, which has dominated the entire world, that agriculture is at the top of the most important issues for all countries. But in the remaining 18 years of AKP power, Turkish agriculture has reached its end, the AKP's agricultural policy on imports has failed. Unfortunately, this bankruptcy has bankrupted the country's farmer and its cattleman. Today, our farmer owes 80 percent. According to 2003, our farmers' debt increased by 40 times. Dear lawmakers, the power of a state passes through production, a state that only consumes is doomed to be destroyed. Sadly, today our farmers are leaving their land; in the last decade, our farming numbers have dropped by 38 percent, and more than 400,000 of our people have stopped plowing. Milk producers send their animals to slaughter and stop producing milk. And the feeders who can't resist the increasing cost stop being animals, so how could they not? The dollar is $8.15 today. From the day the price of raw milk was set, the exchange rate has increased by about 40 per cent and our producers' costs have increased by 37 per cent compared to last year. See, last year, the price of an oath was 49 euros, this year it went up to 82 euros, the shade of hay went up to 1,500 TL, the corn eraser went up 21.1 per cent in a year, and the increase in the clover was 15.2 per cent. Milk and milk products have increased daily in markets for 2.30 euros in one year, no increase in milk from the manufacturer, no payment for breastfeeding, including April, and the meat given to the Meat and Milk Association is paid only three months later. The situation in agriculture is even worse. The sugar beets are being taken out, the factories have started their sugar beets campaign, but the sugar beets' purchase price is not announced, the farmer still doesn't know the price of the product. The price of input, such as electricity and irrigation, is constantly rising. The length of the pandemic process and the constant increase in exchange rates and the constant lack of explanation of sugar beets purchases are a concern for the beet farmer. Dear lawmakers, the Turkish farmer is in trouble, fuel, fertilizer, medicine, seeds, electricity, water-related input costs stemming from an increase in foreign currency rates, and due to unscheduled imports, our farmer is unable to produce today or produce money. It also reflects power, exhaustion, and despair on the farmer. Precious lawmakers have lost 12 per cent of agricultural areas since 2002, due to the wrong policies of Turkey, which have made Europe's largest agricultural areas a country that needs importing in agriculture, we have lost about the face measurement of the Netherlands, which is the world's second largest country in agricultural production, and agricultural areas have been sacrificed in Ranta. If power is the power, it's the show. When we came to power, we raised agricultural production to $216 billion when it was $37 billion; we increased it by six times. So, how did our farmer's debt go in the process? In 2002, the total debt of the agricultural sector increased by $2 billion to $2,600 million, and today it has increased by 45 times and has grown by 119 billion dollars; production has increased by six times, and debt by 45 times. Speaking of which, there's success. They call it success, but they don't say it. The Netherlands, which does not own a tenth of the land in Turkey, exports $100 billion in agricultural exports; France, Germany, Spain, Italy, Belgium, Britain, and even Poland exports more agricultural exports than Turkey. We have the land, the climate, the water, but other countries make the money. There is not a single sentence in the third New Economy Programme, which has been announced by the Treasury Minister recently, which, as with the others, will be the answer to the problems of agriculture. When the farmers can't produce, when they can't earn from what they've produced, all the inputs are indexed to your currency and the exchange is increasing every day, the groom in charge of the treasure says, "I don't look at the exchange." Dear lawmakers, every step taken before the structural problems of agriculture are resolved will be in vain. You can't solve food inflation without increasing production, giving the farmer money, and other problems of agriculture, it's impossible to find. Given the official data, employment from growth to production to foreign trade, agriculture in the economy decreases. In our country, agricultural production is dwindling, and in employment, agriculture is constantly diminishing. Agricultural policy is being implemented based on imports instead of nationals. We import many agricultural products from grain to beans, bait to raw seeds, and in recent years to the easiest products to produce, such as potatoes, onions. Just last week, the President's Office of the Republic and the customs tax on importing grain products such as wheat, barley, and corn have been reset by the end of this year. The wheat from our farmer's highest price of $1.6 is imported from 2.4 TL, less than two months later. Our farmer loses again, our country loses again, Turkey loses. The strangest part is that Syria was given authority to provide grain for the land crop office; we will import wheat, barley, corn, and give it to Syria. Again, the farmers will be victimized and the supporters who do these things will be rich. In livestock, animal material, bait, animal slaughter, livestock, cattle, small cattle, sperm, medicine, red meat, hay, everything is imported, but all of these products are easily produced in Turkey. Dear lawmakers, if power stops ignoring agriculture, if it makes the necessary arrangements and creates a national policy, an agricultural sector can be created in exports where records will be broken, not a dream. The agricultural potential we have allows it. Ladies and gentlemen of law, let's save our agriculture from this difficult situation together. In the pandemic process, let the AKP stop ignoring the agricultural sector that the world is so fond of, and let's create a new and national agricultural policy. Let's remove the EVT at the mazotta for agricultural production, provide electricity support for the farmer, and go to the discounted rate for electricity used by our farmer in agriculture. Let's remove the price of 1 per cent energy fund reflected in the electricity bill, 2 per cent of TRT, 18 per cent VAT, and make arrangements to increase the producer's income and reduce dependence on imports. Let's solve the irrigation problems, get the farmer to meet the water and increase the support. Let's make our farmers' debts to Agriculture Loan Co-operatives and banks interest-free, long-term. Let's prevent the development, the plundering of the mera, which is the most important element to sustain -- our methods of animalism have been the most important topic in years. Let us make legal provisions that will protect our farmers from drought, frost, disease, and extreme heat. Instead of making arrangements that won't directly affect the farmer, let's make arrangements to meet our farmer's expectations and bring agriculture to its rightful place. With the right policies, with the right planning and perspective, let's get agriculture on its feet.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0119par0030	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0118par0031	I'm ending it, Mr. President. I say agriculture is the light at the end of the tunnel for the economy in crisis, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0119par0034	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Sefer Aycan is a member of Kahramanmarash. Here you go, Mr. Aycan.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0120par0037	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our National Party of Action on the second part of the Law Proposal on the Meeting Foods, Agriculture and Forestry Area. I salute you. First of all, I'd like to remember our Minister of Osman Durmis once again. Osman Durmiş was our teacher at Gazi University Medical School, we worked together. We also worked together at the Ministry of Health in the 57th Reich, and I served as the General Director and Undersecretary. He has done very important services, and he has contributed a great deal to our state, to our nation. I reminisce with mercy and gratitude. May his soul rest in peace and his place be in heaven. Dear lawmakers, in the second part of the law, there are also provisions related to preventing division of agricultural land, preventing the use of agricultural land without purpose, and in the form of sanctions that will be used without purpose. As the National Movement Party, we are opposed to division of farmland. Agricultural land must be used strictly for the purpose. Because agricultural production is extremely important for human nutrition, for its future. Our most important basic needs are provided with agricultural inputs, agricultural production. Therefore, we need to preserve our land to increase our agricultural production and to increase it further. The land of agriculture is very valuable. It takes four hundred years to form an inch of soil. For him, we need to protect the existing land and acquire new farmland. Therefore, we, the National Movement Party, recommend that the land that has not been planted in particular should also be used as a rental. We need to produce more. Of course, in order to feed 83 million, to contribute to the world's diet, we need to prevent both the division of farmland and the use of these fields without purpose. We also find the sanctions correct and support them. In particular, the farmland is not supposed to be developed. We specifically don't want agricultural land to be opened to organised industrial areas. Because the development means the destruction of those farmlands. The construction can be done anywhere, and even the slopes are more accurate in that sense. In terms of urbanism and urban planning, there should be no settlement in the plains. In my city of Kahramanmarash, you know there are very important plains. Our city has a particularly productive area in the 12th century region, but these areas are also in danger of zoning. We support regulations as the National Movement Party on not allowing construction and protecting and developing these lands. The second issue of the proposal for the law is the watering of agricultural land. There are materials related to the support of modern irrigation systems, which we support because we have to do watery agriculture to increase agricultural production, but we know that we don't do enough watery agriculture. For that, of course, dams must be built, dams to be made, irrigation channels to be built. Other than that, there must be modern irrigation systems. We also know that watering is not effective by giving water to the arcs in ancient, traditional ways, but also by pouring water into the soil. Modern irrigation systems, especially the drip systems, need to be popularized, and we find it right and right to support them to promote it. Again, Kahramanmarash, as you know, is actually a city that is rich in streams, but about 25 to 30 percent of our farmland is open to watery agriculture. Kahramanmarash, even though he's so rich in water, although he's rich in stream water, he gives his water to other cities, but he doesn't use it enough. Of course, this affects agricultural production. It is also true that in order to increase agricultural production, you must also support and encourage watery agriculture. That's what we support in this regard. Hopefully, by further support, we'll spread the modern irrigation systems because we have to use this water correctly, use it efficiently and use it effectively. The third issue is about food. There are provisions concerning the control of food and the punishment for counterfeiting food, for imitations. Of course, agricultural production is actually directly related to food. Man needs food. When humans are not fed, there are many conditions that are incompatible with life, they end in death, but if the food they consume is not healthy, they can also damage their health; as mistakes made during the preparation of food can damage their health, there are also toxic effects to humans, such as additives, detergents, hormones, and other pesticides that are used in production. So, of course, we need food, we need food constantly, food needs to continue to produce sustainablely, but the food that is produced should be compatible with human health, not harmful to human health. The distortions in food, the fungi that occur here, for example, can cause toxic effects, could cause allergic reactions. I would also like to point out that the other danger, today, is the substance that joins the food, which is called the additive, which is actually not important in terms of food, only to prevent food from decomposing. We know that unconscious contributors cause many health problems. The difference between a substance and a cure is the dose of it; if you use it correctly, it can be a cure, but it can also mean poison when you use it too much, so it can damage the human body. So the food issue, even the packaging used for food, are directly affecting food health and human health. For these reasons, we need to care deeply about food control and do it very carefully. But the food issue, unfortunately, is one of the highest areas where imitation, forgery, improper production of legislation, improper production of standards. In order to increase the controls, we, the National Movement Party, are strongly recommending that the control teams in the Ministry of Agriculture be increased, especially by further strengthening the lab systems and strengthening our control network. It's not enough to make a complaint-based inspection, we need to make routine inspections. We need to do regular inspections, both in production and in consumption, so we need to increase the controls in retail. We need to increase food control by running a regular sample. It is not only right to pass by the label, but it is also necessary to make sure that those labels are readable and understood, and that the packaging materials used are always compatible with human health. Because these -- as I just said -- are entirely possible to damage human health and even cause many diseases. To remove all these possibilities, you need to increase food control. Another suggestion is that the municipal authorities in the cities, especially in the city centers, will be given back their food control authority. In particular, I think it's possible that the police should also step in at retail sales, and then we'll be able to do a more effective food inspection.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0121par0050	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Aycan.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0120par0051	Dear lawmakers, when I end my words, I especially want to point out a few points about our agenda: Macron, France, and with it, especially the Dutch and Austria in Europe, our religion of Islam, our Prophet, our state and Mr. President, I condemn and even condemn the attacks he has committed against us, even to his senses. It is of no use for anyone to be fueled by Turkish hostility, Turkey's hostility, and the hatred of Islam. I now wish that our life tomorrow, Mevlit Kandili, will bring blessings to our nation, to the whole Islamic world. On the anniversary of our Republic's founding anniversary -- our republic will grow stronger and will live forever -- I remember with mercy and gratitude all of our past, especially Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who gave us this. My respects; thank you, be there.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0122par0056	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Adana MP Tulay Hatimlari Oruç. Here you go, Mr. Fast.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0123par0059	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are burning again in Hatay, while we are having these conversations. In the same way, a huge fire broke out on Mount Kel in Yayladağı -- on one side in Syria, on the other side in Turkey's borders -- again. Again, there is a great fire in the Çevlik neighborhood of Samandağ, and all Hatay has no electricity now. I will continue from the fire, and Adana Kozan, Mersin Anamur, is on fire. We don't really know which of the earlier lzmir, Mughla, Mt. Cudi forest fires we can reach anymore. Today, of course, this Assembly and all Turkey have an opinion about the causes of forest fires. The main reason for these forest fires is to take the fire in Hatay much differently when it is legitimate to give the capital licenses to the mining companies, to make room for construction. What's going on out there, what's the political purpose, what's going on in that area? In this regard, the citizens are concerned, and we are concerned. Again and again, near us, near Syria, there were 156 places of fire; there were great fires in Lazkiye, Cebel Aleviyyun, Tartus, Hummus, and Humus. The war has been going on for years in Syria. On top of this war, a fire so great that -- I've just mentioned, the fires that are already going on -- thousands of people there are now starving, thirsty, and suffering from poverty because of the fire. We believe that the Turkish Grand National Assembly must make an attempt to provide medicine, food support and support for the peoples next door to us, the Syrian peoples who are our neighbours. And I would like to call from here to all human rights, aid and solidarity institutions around the world, to provide support for their initiatives. Yes, dear friend, there are over 7 billion people on this planet, and unfortunately, the process we're going through, and the desire for profit imposed by the capitalist system, it's overwhelmingly chewing us down on its own wheel. Today, air, water, soil is the brain of the ecosystem, heart, kidney, but capitalism and its surrogacy powers consume them and consume us, unfortunately, one by one, with their humbling policies. Today, some of the authoritarian governments say, people, Sakarya. Some say, "Stay in the country, safety," some say, "We are fighting the pandem." Some say, "We are fighting the pandemic." But none of this is even close to the truth. We have to say that failure in domestic, foreign policy, the withdrawal of the country's resources to the side, has been of no use except to exploit the feelings of patriotism to cover up the country's economic crisis. So, we're talking about making arrangements in such an atmosphere in the field of food, agriculture and forest. As we talk about these arrangements, as we try to make this arrangement, I'm going to talk about how agriculture is finished, and I'm going to try to draw a few numbers. Agriculture fields in Turkey have been reduced by 12.3 per cent during the AKP period, and the field of vegetable gardens has been reduced by 15 per cent. The number of people employed in agriculture in 2002 has now fallen to 4,157,000 people. The number of people employed in the agricultural sector in 18 years has dropped by 44 per cent, with the number of farmers reduced by 48 per cent. Again, according to the BDK (BDK) statement, the farmer's debt to banks in 2020 is 180 billion euros; his debt to loan co-ops is 10 billion euros; again, agricultural electricity, agricultural irrigation debts are among them. In the busy cities where Kurdish people live, DEDAS can cut the city's electricity because they don't pay their bills, and the farmer's electricity can be cut, and so can State Water Affairs. The 26 million hectares of agricultural land fell to 20 million hectares during the AKP government. TECEL privatised, sugar factories privatized, privatized. The pandemic process has shown us and the whole world once again that the importance of self-sufficient agriculture has once again surfaced. However, we have repeatedly expressed that Turkey is an agricultural country with its subterranean and aboveground assets, with its rich soil, water and air. Now that we're in a position to import tomatoes, potatoes, onions, meat, not just to yourself, but to export agriculture all over the world, we know that this is the result of the policies that AKP has implemented, and of course, the decisions on January 24th, which have been built on it, and we should know that. Dear friends, the rule of law in Article 21 of this law proposal -- which is the main idea given in this article -- is that it can't be used except for the purpose of agricultural production of solid agricultural land, private produce land, and planted farmland. However, as long as there are no alternative spaces and the Council sees fit, there is something called....... The strategic needs for defence, the need for temporary settlements, oil and gas search and business activities, such as mining activities, which have been decided by the relevant ministry for public benefit, are going on and on. We want to ask you, for example, when Canal Istanbul was being decided, it was called public benefit, the third airport was being built, and it was called public benefit. Yes, although it may seem to be a public benefit, it's basically what's being done there, who's being marketed to at the airport, what's being sold to local and foreign capital around Canal Istanbul, and the public benefit part remains a very small detail, which we see in other articles. See, Article 29 mentions punishing a misleading publication on food safety and credibility. True, the control of this is very important; public opinion, citizen should not be misled, but you punish the one who gives the right information, not the one who misleads it; Bulent Şık is one of the most important examples of this. In this regard, it must be revealed what punishment is to be given, and it is not in our best interest to use it in your own interests, but it is true that such a criminal act should be carried out in a fundamental way. In the end, when we look at the imports and export rates, the point that comes in the agricultural policies applied by power is the facts. AKP's capital and supporting policies are not a cure for farmers, workers, citizens. Nature and human-based politics are the only option. This way, with this policy, people can get healthy and adequate food. As water, soil, air is protected, it is possible, as long as forest and all living things are protected. Look, the dollar is over $8. The farmer's earnings are not in dollars, but the groom's minister has already expressed it in a way that will make the whole world laugh. The diesel used in agriculture, the pesticide, depends on the dollar, and it's priced on it. The water, electricity, labor, the manufacturer does not profit, the manufacturer does not earn; the citizen cannot reach vegetables, fruits, meat, bread. The bread on the hanger -- yes, you're uncomfortable -- is trying to create a tradition. We can't bring bread to our house. A tea package called tea is being thrown out. These will be recorded in history as symbols to commemorate the tyranny of this government. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0124par0072	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Edirne MP Okan Gaytancıoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Gaytancioğlu.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0125par0075	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the famous national poet Nazim Hikmet, said to me, "Can you paint me a picture of happiness, Abidin?" And now I want to paint you how the farmer is unhappy, or rather, I want to tell you. You've created such a crowd of farmers who are unhappy, desperate, worried about the future, who don't want to make their children farmers; they have a very high potential for production; but they don't want to go into the field with high import policy, with low product prices policy, they don't want to go into the barn, they don't want to go into the barn; in short, they don't want to produce. What did we once learn in elementary school? Turkey was one of the seven self-sufficient countries, but thanks to you, we are no longer sufficient for ourselves in almost any product. Now, you have defenses right now: here we are in the 7th place in the world, we are in the 1st place in Europe, we produce a lot. See if there's some geography, compare the land assets of countries; land as beautiful as ours, land as agrievable as ours. So Turkey's geography has always been the target of imperialism. Either by privatizing public enterprises, by evading them, the imperialists have succeeded with their political collaborators, or now, by entering the private sector, they've always partnered with corporate marriages, with this. The farmer is in debt because of you, my friend. You say: The farmer pays his debt. Yes, he does, but he only pays his interest. I expected that in the agricultural bag law, how are we going to construct the farmer's debt? Let's talk about it. When each of us goes to our provinces, when we go into the fields, when we go into the villages -- I don't know if you go into them, but I go into them -- they always ask, "Do you know if there's construction, if there's forgiveness for debt, if there's interest?" We read the papers, there's no such thing; we ask, there is. You say, "There is." Where is it? What kind of configuration? Is there or isn't there? After that, the farmer pays his debt. The tractor is mortgaged, the barn is mortgaged, so you've created such a crowd of farmers. Look at the average age. Do young people go into agriculture? You had a beautiful project -- we supported it -- the Young Farmer Project -- because this project was over, you immediately put it on the shelf, and the migration from village to city has increased dramatically.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0126par0079	We picked him up because he got old.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0125par0080	He's old, of course, but you don't have to... What's the European Union doing? He retires five years early, does seven years of agricultural policy. Well, we were running for European Union, so why don't we do our policies accordingly? You're trying to avoid the day with day-to-day politics. Well, look at it today -- milk prices haven't gone up in over a year -- what did TÜİK explain? If you're following, you know, if you're not, the import of milk powder has increased by 9.217 percent. And why do milk powder imports increase? So the industrialist finds it cheap, puts milk powder in the name of the ice cream, makes yogurts with it, and buys milk from the manufacturer at a low price. That means something's wrong somewhere. It's sub-cheese water, which increased by 6,000 percent. I'm talking about thousands, 10-20 percent, not 100 percent. These are products we produce, why do you import them? He's got pandemics, he's taking care of the world. Aman says, "If the ports close, if the border doors close, let's put our own food aside first." What did you do? You almost didn't send 65-year-old farmers into the field, and then you came to your senses, and you said, "Oh, most of these old people should go to the field." You said, "They got documents." The world is trying to stockpile everything. See, the world's producer countries don't even export anymore, so stop, please, it'll be a problem in the future. What are you guys doing? The harvest has just finished, and in most places, before the harvest is finished, the import decrees are in succession... You're resetting customs duties. Why are you resetting customs duties? Customs taxes don't reset, customs tax is a protection wall. You're going to raise customs duties so that the products don't come in, and you're going to zero out, so the products come in. Come on, let's say you get it cheap from the world, maybe, but you get it expensive. You buy wheat from your own farmer for $1,600, and you buy wheat for $2,200. Where's the account like this, fellas? After that, Turkish agriculture collapsed. Of course it collapses, so you don't do any books? The additive value of the product is in agriculture. Please take a look at these. Most of the projects are fictional. See, now there is a project in Edirne: I have many reasons to live in my village. You find it beautiful, it's done in many of your provinces. So I called, I looked, and I changed the name of the project: "Why do you bring up so many reasons not to live in my village? Why? Yeah, he wants to do projects in the village, he wants to look at sheep, it's good; you give him 100 sheep, that's good; you give him 100,000 liras, 150 grand, that's good. E, 2 guarantors; the guarantors will be clean, their records clean. Whoever gets the loan can barely get the loan, and the guarantors aren't clean, and you want a mortgage. Yeah, well, there aren't any farmers who can provide that. Will you not then see? We don't tell you for nothing, so you can forgive the record, make up the debts. That's what we're saying, guys. There's a parite about milk and feed, that's true all over the world -- you know, statistics -- the price of milk should be twice the price of bait. You guys evened it out. Then there's no farming. You keep the price of everything with the logic of inflation. This is wrong, friends, not inflation. Give it to the farmer, give it to him; you didn't give it to him. The law came out, for the first time, there was an agreement with his opposition on the law, one percent of the Gayrisafi national is given as support to the farmer. It was said, "You never gave it to the farmer." And then you went to roll it up, and you said, "Ya, we're giving you, you're not computing." We calculated it with numbers, we explained it to you rationally; you owe the farmer $175 billion, and you owe it $160 billion, give or take. Come on, wipe this off here, and if you're making a bag of laws, let's make it work. And the farmers say, "Ya, they love me, I think they'll make me master again." So I'll start with this speed, with this gas, I'll go into the field, get in the barn, get in the tractor, I'll go out in the field early in the morning, I'll spread it in the field, I'll plant it, I'll sew it up. The unexplored area has reached 50 million pounds, my friends. Please see these. Watering supports... either the world is breaking down for irrigation, we're a water-poor country; you're cutting budgets for state waterworks. Yeah, turn it all down, but don't turn it down. A million milk cows were slaughtered. You can't see that; in a few years, there'll be a crisis. Meat and milk together, combined. There's no production planning at all. How much do we make of what, when do we release what? You were afraid you'd banned lemon exports from the pandemic, and then you came to your senses. Well, we were already selling it. We have forbidden it, but we have forbidden it very much, so let's open it quickly. That's what you did on potatoes, on onions. I mean, you never follow the markets. You can't because your team is wrong; there's no agricultural engineer in it; there's no vet in it; you find people outside the sector; people who haven't been in the field, who haven't been in the garden, who haven't been in the barn don't understand. When you get sick, do you go to the doctor or are you trying to choose a specialist? If there's something wrong with your eye, you go to an ophthalmologist. Well, that's the way it is, fellas. There are so many things you still haven't paid for. Yeah, we're going into 2021. Look, two months later, 2021. You didn't pay the seed support of 2019, you didn't pay the calf support. You're saying to people, "Earth from Sertifika, I'll give it to you." You haven't increased support in four years, and then...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0127par0090	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0125par0091	As you do not increase the support, you still do not pay the support of 2019. Come in, look at the sites for sale, you'll see how many for sale farms, how many for sale. I'll tell you: almost 10 percent of them are now farms, farms for sale, animals for sale, milk cows for sale on these shopping sites. We all have to develop the project for Turkey, which is producing a new one. Turkey's agricultural potential is very high. When you bring water to the land, believe me, there's serious potential when you drive agricultural engineers, food engineers, veterinarians, water products engineers into the field. You have to support that potential rationally, with good budgets. In the coming days, the budget will come in, you'll say, you'll increase the budget a little bit, you'll say, we've increased the budget a little bit. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One last thing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0128par0095	We're not. I gave you a minute.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0125par0096	Must be a real budget. Agriculture is the only industry that produces it. Really support the productive sector. Especially in this pandemic period, there's nothing but agriculture. We're a strong country in agriculture-based industry, so let's use that potential. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0128par0099	Adana MP Abdullah will speak correctly on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0129par0102	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the Law Proposal to Make Some Editings in Food, Agriculture and Forestry Area 221 rows. I salute the General Assembly. At the beginning of my words, I ask for the mercy of our late Minister of Health Osman Durmiş Bey, and for the patience of his family and loved ones. Today, in our Veteran Assembly, we are discussing a very valuable law proposal on behalf of our country's economy. As EC PARTY governments, we continue to value production, and we continue to take steps in that direction. The covid-19 pandemic has once again revealed the importance of the world's resource unrest, production safety and continuity. Hopefully, this bill that we're going to legalize will prevent any possible problems, so to speak, the production will be shouldered. With this practice, which opens the way for the new law, it will accelerate our country's graph, which is already on the rise in agricultural-based organised industry and water products, so that we can increase the confidence in production. This law proposal from our Veteran Assembly is of great importance to our Adana, the capital of my constituency, agriculture and production. Under the influence of globalization, areas of water products in the world that are used for production are shrinking, while people's needs for quality water products are increasing. In this direction, agricultural activities and production of water products around the world are needed to diversify and enhance. Water products are being used worldwide in soil pools that aim to make more production in a smaller area to satisfy this need. Our Adana has 163km of shorelines, consisting of five lagoons, 10 dam lakes, and 29 ponds. The annual production capacity of 36 water products growers in our province is 4,100 tonnes. According to 2018 data, the production of water products by means of hunting and breeding in our province was 8,000 tonnes. A study to set an example for the world has been launched in our Adana province and will be established in the district of Karataş, where agriculture-based residency (water products) will be established. Water products are planned for 6,500 dekar mera, a total of inefficient and swampy areas located in Karataş district of Adalı neighbourhood. With the project, these areas, which have been thrown out of human hands, controlled and farm fishing in soil pools, will be assessed. This will contribute to the country's economy. About 3,000 people will be employed, at least 250, as a water products engineer. There will be significant increases in our water products exports with the project. When it works at full capacity, it will generate an estimated 2.5 billion dollars per year with 35,000 tons of production. In the organised industrial region, water products will grow species such as cimpiura, bass, shrimp, crayfish, carp, tilapia, kephal, aquarium fish. The water products in Karataş district, Adalı neighbourhood, will consist of about 60 per cent of the organised industrial area, 3,810 dekar, territorial pools. The size of each facility in the business sector will have at least 25 per cent of the area, and 254 facilities will be established in the organised industrial area. The annual facility will produce 135 tons of water products per year. Water products will be used as a source of water in the organised industrial region, including Mediterranean water, Ceyhan River, and Artesian water. Each operation will use approximately 27 liters per second of water. Analyzing reports of water samples taken after preliminary study in the planned area have been determined to be appropriate for water products breeding criteria. As a result, Adana's water products, which are planned to be established, can cope with competitive conditions in the organised industrial region, and industrial integration will take place in territorial pools with water products growth to provide suitable and quality water products. So it is clear that such a project would benefit from the establishment of work opportunities at many levels, to contribute to the region, the city and the country's economy, to make Adana a water products provider for Europe and the Middle East. Our government will continue to support production at all costs. Even in this difficult process of passing through the world, all of our government's resources have been mobilized for production. This and previous projects are shaped by the needs and demands of our citizens, and are again in the interest of our citizens. AS AC PARTY governments, we are not afraid to put our hands on anything to encourage production and support our producer, and we are moving forward with the same determination. We know very well that the land is the foundation of the state. We're making the most efficient use of every inch of our land that's gushing from all over. In closing my remarks, I would like to express my gratitude to Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has had the greatest share in bringing such a useful project into our Adana. And I'd like to thank our Minister of Agriculture and Forestry and our Minister of Environment and Urbanism. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0130par0114	There is no request for a statement or a question on behalf of individuals. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motions on those substances, if there are any. There are three motions on the 17th article, and I will process them according to the order of violation. Go ahead and read it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 17 of Law Proposal 221 be removed from the text of the article. Semra Fine İmam Taşçıer Ayşe Driver == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Anthalya MP Kemal Bülbül wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0131par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. Of course, its scope is vast and vital, not just for the farmer, but for almost every member of Turkey. But there is unfortunately a need for agriculture in Turkey, which is that agriculture is a very ordinary thing -- agriculture -- scorns about farming, almost differentializations, dams to agricultural fields, minefields, forbidden zones, urbanization, and so on. For example, I'll give you examples of ancient times: you must know about Urartu civilization, where the Urartu civilization is, the Urartus have built its city on a hill, its inferno, and they've never touched the farmland. This is so in Malatya Arslantepe, this is in Hasankeyf, who was systematically destroyed, who was slaughtered; this is in Samsat, the region of Nevali Çori, which was left under the dam. Go to the Hititite civilization, travel, see, you'll see how it dominates the field of agriculture and protects the field of agriculture. Go to Sagalossos Ancient City on the road to Burdur-Antalia, how to build a city, how to preserve agriculture, how to use agriculture, something to set an example for the world. With modern intelligence, with science, we can't do that. Go to Gordion, which is right here next to us, to Frigya civilization, where the same thing is, go to Bergama civilization, where it's the same thing. I don't know how we do so much shit in so many civilizations. Read the book of the Chelebiah, and the inheritance of the Abysssites, and there is much data there. Do you know what the name of this Ankara used to be? It was Hussainoba. Why Husseinoba? There was Hüseyin Gazi, one of the servers of Hussaingazi Hill, and one of the servants of the saints, where the city was built called Husseinoba, and there was agriculture in Husseinoba. Now Husseinoba has been slaughtered. Go to Antalya, where all the orange groves were slaughtered and built. Go to Adıyaman, the city has been built and the land has been destroyed. Now, how are you going to farm in a place like this? When Herod said of the Aegean, where is the oil and honey of the mountains? Where's the fat and honey sacrifice? Let me ask you, I'll tease you.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0132par0136	There's no more, there's no more.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0131par0137	Now, look, you'll see, from the far west of Mesopotamia, Ergene and Gediz Plains to the easternmost Plain of Iğdır and Mush Plains; you'll see, from the northernmost Wednesday and Bafra Plain to the southernmost Amik Plain, you'll see, a land slaughter, a water massacre, an agricultural slaughter, and a growing field slaughter, and a growing farm slaughter, and something where farmers are being slaughtered. In the early founding years of the Republic, 80 percent of the population were in villages, 20 percent were not in cities? Now there are no people left in the villages. As the congressman just described, people want to go out and get loans, and they want to deal with a variety of agriculture and livestock, but they don't. Agricultural-animal relations, agricultural-water relations, agricultural-climate relations, agricultural-natural relations, agricultural-natural relationships absolutely cannot be established; it's a shame, it's a sin, it's a shame. And speaking of all that, of course: I hugged a lot of friends, My faithful beloved is the land of darkness. I'm wasted. I'm tired. My faithful beloved is the land of darkness. He gave sheep, he gave lamb, he gave milk, He gave food, bread, meat, When he didn't fight the pick, he gave me a hard time. My faithful beloved is the land of darkness. Whoever it is, it's a secret. It's a work as soon as it's left on Earth. And on the day when he holds Veysel in his bosom, My faithful beloved is the land of the land. Come, let us not betray our faithful beloved, let us cherish the bonds of the land and of the land, and of the brethren of the land, who will cherish us, and give us so much value. I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0133par0154	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0134par0155	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0133par0156	Mr. Nightingale, in his speech on the stand, has made a speech of our Aydın MP, stating that Mr. Süleyman Bey's earlier speech has been disinherited. He has the right to answer, sir. We demand from the bench, sir, without taunting, from the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0134par0158	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0135par0162	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Aydın, honey from the mountains, a city with oil running through its plains. The famous Greek philosopher Aydina says: "The most beautiful paradise on earth. " But what have we become? With 28 unsupervised JES (JES), geothermal thermal plants, Aydın has run out of air, water, and land. Now the acres of farmable land have waned in Aydın. Now, when a citizen opened the window in Aydın, he began to smell the rotten egg smell of hydrogen sulfur gas -- that gas called carcinogen by the World Health Organization. The fluids coming out of the JES are damaging the soil, the fluids coming out of the JES are damaging Menderes, and the food safety of the plants coming out of it is being removed from it because of agricultural irrigation. In the 18 years of AKP's rule, Aydın unfortunately moved away from Aydın, where honey flowed oil from its plains. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0134par0168	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal No. 221 has been raised in Article 17 of the current Law Proposal and has been changed into the terms of the decree of the President in its sixth sentence. Okan Gaytancıoğlu Cengiz Gökçel Ayhan Gunat Inspired by Özcan Aygun Orhan Sarıbal Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Mersin MP Cengiz Gökçel wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Gökcal.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0136par0181	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're discussing a bag of law again. Looking at what's in the materials, we see that there's nothing going on with the farmer, the peasant, the citizen, nature; there's no punishment for the burning, the plundering of the forests. For weeks, our forests have been burning in Mersin, and in different parts of our country. The Alata Garden Culture Research Institute has been burned three times in the last three months. Today's Anamur is burning, and it's burning with pine. With this offer, there is no punishment for those who burn forests and villages, nor for forest terrorists, nor for forest protection. So, what's in the bag? There's a plunder of agricultural fields, there's an establishment of organised industrial areas in agricultural areas, there's an opening with TOKI hands, there's construction, there's construction in this law proposal. And you're doing it by saying it's a public benefit. What's going on under normal circumstances? If a farmer is producing in the treasury, after three years, he can buy the land or continue to pay his rent; he's producing agricultural products, contributing to his country. But what is meant to be done in this law proposal is that there is a public benefit. It is said that these people have been filling up the treasures of their ancestors that they've been farming for centuries with TOKI buildings, pouring concrete into their farmlands. Isn't that hostility to agriculture and farming? When the farmer tells you this, will you call the farmer a terrorist again, take your mother and go? In Pandemide, you sow, if necessary, we will take it. You said to the farmer. Now there's almost no land left to plant on the farmer. Is the public benefit the farmer's production or the development of agricultural land? Dear friends, we're trying to make sure that our work here is right, but this bag of laws doesn't protect the forests, it doesn't protect the farmland. The offer opens to forest agriculture, and the agricultural land is organized industrial territory, you say. And you're doing it by saying it's a public benefit, and you're letting it happen. This offer is risky for farmland, it's a threat, it opens the way to plunder, it encourages the loot. You obviously want to open up the fields. How are you going to solve the problems that happen when you guys open up the range? If you want to learn a lesson, look at Ergene. Dilova is there. We don't want the caravan to be fucked on the road. If you say so, the government won't be ruled like that. If you try to rule like that, you'll try to break your own law. But we warned you guys, we thought we'd ask trade rooms, unions, NGOs, take an opinion on this arrangement. Then we know it. You said it, and today you say it. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Dear friends, we continue to warn you as the Republican People's Party, and we will. You're offering me something that's not gonna happen. Look, you're making it mandatory for the estate to be processed within a year. Only rejection lasts three months, conflict cases go on for years, but you force them to solve in a year. That's what I've done. The state cannot be ruled, but we're being flustered. The law, without consulting anyone, without seeing anyone, is only a victim. What you have done will only be a victim; the farmer will remain poor again, and he will find no seed to sow in the soil, and he will not be able to water it because of the debt of electricity; the forest will not end, but the crimes against the forest will continue. You'll call it the public benefit. Dear lawmakers, you're bringing authority to seize forest areas, agricultural land, by saying it's a public benefit. You don't care what the Civil Code says, you don't care about property; all you care about is your rank, all you care about is your love of construction. Friends, this bag of legislation violates the Constitution. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0137par0189	Pack it up. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0136par0190	He says, "I will plunder the forest, and give it to my companion." That's what you agree to. It's the farmer's problem, the peasant's problem, it's yours. The villagers don't live in the village, everyone's poor, everyone's poor, everyone's trying to leave their farm, their pair, their stick, and find a minimum wage job in the cities. Dear friends, the point that AKP has brought the country in 18 years is clear. Agricultural policies have collapsed, we need to call these agricultural policies, which prioritize imports, end domestic production, stop immediately. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, agriculture needs a change of mind. This change of mind needs a mind transformation that will again increase the production of domestic and national agricultural products and aim for exports. The AKP won't understand this because in 18 years, the Republican People's Party has always told you, always warning you, you don't understand, but the voters will send you from the government in the first election.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0138par0195	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the first amendment of the 17th article of the Law Proposal shall be replaced with a declaration of food, agriculture and forest area. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Fahrettin Yoşüs Enez Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Adana MP Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Çulhaoğlu.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0139par0208	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I congratulate you on the Mevlit Kandili, which we're going to understand tomorrow. I sincerely congratulate you on Republic Day, which we will celebrate on Thursday's 97th anniversary. I, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our state, remember with mercy and gratitude all those who went to eternity, from their comrades who founded the republic and the lawmakers who served at the time. Again, in the 21st and 23rd terms, the Minister of Health, Osman Durmus Hakk, who served as Deputator of the Kırkkale, has walked to his deceased family, his grieving family, the National Movement Party community, the Turkish nation. Mr. President, I have been promised to express my opinion on the 17th article of the Law Proposal 221, which is being discussed on behalf of the PARTI Group. I salute your high council. Mr. President, on July 3, 2005, the AK PARTI changed the 8/A article titled "agricultural land size" of Land Protection and Land Use Act 5403 at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Nine years later, on 30 April 2014, he made another amendment to the Law's 5th Amendment to the Law on Land Protection and Land Use Law. Six years later, this offer came today to remove the 5th sentence of Article 8/A. So this offer has changed three times. So here's a good example of how to make a poor, non-consuming, no-benefit law that doesn't do any good to a farmer, when we're in the AK PARTY. And is this amendment to the law in favor of our farmers? Absolutely not. Because the predictive change makes it possible to sell part of the economic integrity of affordable farmland on a parcel basis. This will make it difficult for the implementation of many laws in the heritage law, and will bring many problems with it. In terms of the savings and transfer of inherited agricultural lands within property and hand-in-hand ownership through sale and inheritance, the departments of Agriculture and the Forestry Ministry will need to be granted permission and information. So if a change of property, such as bankruptcy, profitability, the transformation of shared property into hand-in-hand ownership is subject to the Ministry's permission, it will create a violation of both property and equality principles, and it will constrain austerity in the process. That would lead to new cases, time and financial losses. Dear friends, see, the Farmer's Recording System was registered with 2 million 765,287 farmers in 2003, while the number was reduced by 682,265 in 2019 to 2 million 83,22 people. Today, in our country, there are 231 million hectares of plant production, but according to the Farmer's Recording System of 2019, only 128 million hectares are supported, so our plant farmer, who has produced 83 million hectares, is unable to benefit from support. So, 36 percent of our farmers are forgotten, and our farmers are selling the land, the tapans, the tractor, and moving into the city because of lack of money. So until yesterday, our manufacturer, the employment worker, is out of work, unable to pay his debts. In 2002, our producers owed the banks 2.4 million Turkish liras, while in May 2020, they had 122 billion Turkish liras, so the farmer's debt increased 50 times. Yeah, you didn't hear wrong, you raised our farmers' debt 50 times over, dear friends. You supported the farmers of foreign countries by importing taxes from agricultural products to zero. If you don't lower the cost of our manufacturers' inputs and don't think about being a brand for subsidized and quality goods as other countries do in exports, you'll make our farmer more miserable and you'll have to import more, and what's going to happen will happen to our farmers and the people of our country. Dear lawmakers, look, we're asking what happened to 2020 agricultural benefits, and it's quiet. Our manufacturer expects an answer from power.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0140par0218	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0139par0219	Still no one hears the cry of the raw milk maker; will you hear these cries after the milk cows are slaughtered waiting to be slaughtered in slaughterhouses? Now I'm going to express the matter of what power must do in order to prevent the crisis of dairy animalism: 1) The new price must be announced on November 15th, which is valid. 2) The 40-cent premium must be paid starting in July 2020, and payments must be paid each month from the end of November. 3) Support for food plants, calves, analysis, and beekeeping must be paid by the end of the year. 4) Animal loans must be extended for six months. 5) According to animal presence lists, you must provide substantial bait support. 6) The field crops office must provide cheap raw materials for the bait industry. 7) The food industry must be provided with proper credit for importing raw materials. I'm just saying what needs to be done, so you don't have to ask a question. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0141par0231	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on the 18th article, and I will process them according to the order of violation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of the joke added to Article 8/B with Article 18 of Law Proposal 221 in the following way. In the fields of agriculture; ifraz, stocking, share and ownership are converted into shared property, the transfer of joint ownership, the transfer of ownership as a shared property, the division of division, division and quality changes are made by the Ministry's permission with the permission of the report taken from the relevant departments of Agriculture. Orhan Sarıbal Ayhan Gunitan Cengiz Gökçel Inspired by Özcan Aygun Okan Gaytancıoğlu Burhanettin Bulut Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Adana MP Burhanettin Bulut wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0142par0246	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the farmland is very valuable to us, and it's clear from the Adana MPs who took the stand today. Also, four Republican People's Party MPs from Adana will take the stand today. It's not just precious to us, of course, it's precious to humanity. Çukurova is one of the most fertile lands in the world; its plain, its mountain, its water, has been a subject of novels throughout history. It's very valuable to us, too. Yasar Kemal described Çukurova. See what he said in the book of the Peri Chikurovar: he believes much in the land of Chokurova. So much so that the stone grows in the axis. They call it. The land gives 30 to 1, 40 to 1, 50 to 1. It gives 100 to 1. It gives 500 to one. It gives 10 to one. Gold, take a handful of land, and here is gold. This is how we describe the land of Çurova. But here, sending messages on the platforms, sending positive messages about agricultural land, executives, in 2011 started an airport project in the fertile land of Adana, Çukurova, Yenice. There were 8 million square meters of this airport project, where the first bad smells came from. The Adana MP of the period issued a question motion four times at that time -- as a representative of the country -- to the Minister of Transport of the period. Who were these ministers? Binali Yıldırım in 2012. Banili Yıldırım asked Yıldırım: "How many acres of agricultural land have you nationalized for Chukurova Airport?," and then asked him in 2012, "How much did you pay for it?" He asked again in 2013, and he didn't get an answer. Later, Lütfi Elvan, MP of Mersin today, became Minister again, asked questions again in 2014, even brought another question there, and said: "Will you shut down the Adana Airport?" He didn't get an answer in 2014. In 2015, he asked again, and he did not get an answer. So it's a piece of land that's been in the papers since the beginning. The point is, who closed down the area of the regional airport? There was activity on the property before it was announced. The farmland was bought from the villagers by the influential businessmen of the era, and it was publicized behind it. There's been corruption here. Corruption here didn't stop, it started a tender, the first tender was held at 350m euros in 2011. On that day, however, the planning stated that we are building an airport with 30 million passengers. It's not a local airport, it's a regional airport, it's going to address the whole area. And right next to it is Adana Airport, 40 kilometers away, it's said not to close. At that time, the AK PARTI adviser said he was an abuser, who was closing the Adana Airport. But so what? Nature didn't allow this construction, it didn't run out of ground for seven years because it flooded. It's so fertile that it can't stand concrete, and after seven years, they've solved that problem by building an artificial lake there. However, the contractor didn't build it, it was laid out three times, seven times the minister changed it, and finally, this year's March, the tender was opened, and he received a company at 100m euros. However, the tender was cancelled when another company, another company -- the company that was in the five contractors of the palace -- failed to receive the tender. The minister was dismissed immediately following the cancellation of the tender. The 7th Minister's change in seven years in this project. A new tender opened in October 2020. In this tender again, interested firms have submitted their application. However, the tender was cancelled last week, which was announced in November. Look at the tender in November, what changes have been made? First, the number of passengers has been reduced from 30 million to 12 million. The closed area has dropped from 150,000 square meters to 50,000 square meters. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll finish right away, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0143par0250	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0142par0251	This project was supposed to enter the tender on October 26th, but despite all the improvements, the tender was not made. What we can think of is that the stench is still there. It's obviously an order tender, obviously another indicator of the do-and-do model, which is here in the city hospitals, like on the highways, on the bridges, the interior of the tender is unclear, it's not explained. What we're seeing here is a project that has changed seven ministers, had a three-time groundbreaking ceremony, which is no more than a project that is being defeated by an orphan. Adana MPs, all lawmakers who care about agriculture -- I'm saying without a party -- pursue this tender. We've persecuted nature, so let's not have our money and the public's money up here in a row. Thank you all.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0143par0254	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Pilot, come in.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0144par0258	Thank you, Mr. President. In the heart of the Turkish nation, I honor and honor our esteemed elder, our precious older brother, our 21st and 23rd-century MP and former Minister of Health Osman Durmus. My condolences to his family and to our community. Our tradesmen are at the head of the sectors affected by the pandemic period. The fact that schools don't start on normal courses has especially affected stationery workers, school cafeteria managers, and service tradesmen. Because of the gradual beginning of the yearly turnover in August and September and the face-to-face training, our school cafeteria managers and service vendors are having problems. Let's maintain economic support and incentives. Finally, I wish our citizens well because of the fires in Mersin Anamur, Hatay, Osmaniye, and Adana. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0145par0266	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of the Law Proposal No. 221 in Article 18 of Article 18 of the Common Law shall be replaced as a proprietary. Your Nusrettin Game Imam Taşçıer Semra Nice Ayşe Düyükpıpil Kemalbay Pek Göğü Ridvan Turan Hüda Kaya Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Istanbul MP Huda Kaya wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0146par0280	Mr. President, my friends, I salute you all. Dear friends, this is about agriculture, but the agenda is so hot... and we're facing another AKP classic. Dollars, gold pixels, markets down, dragon fruit in palaces, joy tea for those who can't bring home their bread is on the agenda, a very successful AKP classic at deflection point. War policies, hate policies, attacks... a new target is set every day in the AKP's power, as long as there's a collapse, decay, bankruptcy, bankruptcy that's off the public agenda. Now there's a France, a Macron, and there's an agenda for claiming the dignity of the beliefs, a claim to Islam.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0147par0283	What are we gonna do about this shit?
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0146par0284	Dear friends, we have to look inside ourselves first. We continue to witness the deepest hatred policies, in the AKP era, in Turkey every day, every hour. Because of their identities, while people were being thrown out of helicopters and killed for their Kurdish identity, as times were put on the doors of Alevis, we had seen enough of their hatred policy in Turkey, during the AKP era, when women were being probed for their identity as mothers lost their children.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0147par0285	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0146par0286	If it's about keeping religion, keeping beliefs -- look, tomorrow the Mevlit Kandili are celebrated, the Mevlit Candles are celebrated by the name of the Prophet's birth anniversary -- a person, a teacher, has been left to die in the dungeons, and you have made it illegal to be buried. The words and colors are God's revelation. When you said Muhammad, you waged war on the messages he brought. The prophet Muhammad brought us the message of justice, peace, love, humanity, freedom.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0147par0288	Say His Grace Muhammad.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0146par0289	You can, of course, claim yourself to be the guardian of Islam to the world, the Islamic world and society, as the representative of Islam, with such populist policies, but there is a reality that we live in in Turkey. You stone France, you attack France.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0147par0291	What are we gonna do?
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0146par0292	I want to express this to our society, to our people, to power, and to all the opposition circles who follow us.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0148par0293	Your speech supports the French Macron. Alas, do not err. Ms. Hüda, don't do this!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0146par0294	There's a man on the road, cut off in the middle of the road, murdered. There are more than 7,000 registered rapes, concubines sold in slave markets, and oppressed women sold in slave markets. We have soldiers of Turkey, burned alive in cages. There are people with heads and heads cut off. What Islam are you opposed to? Islam of ISIS? Al Qaeda's Islam? The Islam of the Taliban? To the Islam of the prophet Muhammad? If you call it Islam, you will surrender to peace, and you will keep peace.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0149par0295	We oppose PKK's lack of books.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0150par0296	Give me a break, give me a break.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0146par0297	We defend the Islam of the Prophet Muhammad. If you say so, you will establish justice, you will perform freedoms. We have to make this country a land of peace, a country of peace. If we attribute ourselves to the Prophet Muhammad, we...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0151par0299	Pack it up, please.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0146par0300	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I'm not saying this to attack. If you really want to congratulate all our people on the birth anniversary of the prophet Muhammad, first it is the responsibility of those in this country to establish justice as a worship. If you're not doing this, you're in trouble. If hundreds of thousands of people are being taken from their work, their bread, their profession, and they are being condemned to hunger, you are under the plague. Let's do accounting again, let's do accounting, let's do peace, justice, freedom in our country, let's respect all the beliefs, let's respect all the languages. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0152par0304	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0153par0305	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0152par0308	Thank you, Mr. President. You have also waged war on the verses of Allah, which target our group from the stand. When the integrity of the talk is taken into account, we have listened to expressions of hatred and hatred, which have nothing to do with religious abuse, which have nothing to do with the facts, especially with justice, peace, freedom, and custom, and we do not accept any of them. In this geography, we have implemented reforms so that Kurds, Arabs, Turks can have their beliefs and values in peace, and we have put them in practice. On one hand, there will be abuse of religion, and on the other hand, France...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0154par0312	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0152par0313	You see, if he were a Muslim, non-Muslim, non-Muslim, abusive to my religion, we would reject statements from the House of Congress in the Middle East, which have so many insults to the Christians and Muslims, our geography, that have driven people out of their homes, through oil, weapons and interest, that have carried out the goals of the imperialists, and have argued against my religion. See, since religious references have been used, I say against those references, I've told you before from this bench. [[Reading the 154th verse of Bacara by the preacher]] Those who can't say anything about martyrs in this country, who fight for God's judgment, who fight for justice...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0155par0318	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0152par0319	...we can't make any statements about them, and we will never accept these attacks on the peace and decisions taken here under the rule of the Constitution and the rule of law and the principles of the state of law. And finally, I want to emphasize: "Do not cause corruption on the earth." When we say to them, "No, no, no, no, we are only reformers." They say, "These are the mischiefmakers." [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I didn't mean to...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0156par0323	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0157par0324	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0158par0325	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0157par0326	I want a promise.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0158par0327	I promised Mr. Altay, and I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0157par0328	Okay.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0159par0330	Mr. President, one of the areas where politics is supposed to go blind is the polarity that just took place. No one has the right or right to teach religion in this House or every square inch of this country. Every man's faith, every man's faith is his own. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, a few moments ago, a respected MP here today found out that Covid was positive and met with about 100 MPs, including me, until he found out. So we're saying that tomorrow is Republic Day, holiday, and there's a law proposal that all parties agree on.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0160par0334	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0159par0335	Our intention is to end this law proposal in a sense of constructive opposition, as soon as possible, and with maximum compliance with the subject of contact. Congressman's out, and I'm criticizing him. No one can teach religion, religion, religion to any member of parliament in this House, religion to every man for himself. God knows that. I mean, it's like Mr. Ozkan is the only one who's Muslim, and I don't accept it, and I want enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0161par0337	Mr. Altay, say a word against Macron.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0162par0338	Yes, now...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0163par0339	Mr. President, I'd like to ask the bench.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0162par0340	I believe Mr. Altay has recovered.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0164par0341	I've got it together, sir. I don't want it to grow.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0163par0342	No, I don't have the right to...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0162par0343	Ms. Hüda, what do you want?
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0163par0344	I demand an answer from the bench.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0162par0345	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0163par0346	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0162par0347	Let's not be sarcastic, here, express your thoughts.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0163par0350	Dear friends, first of all, there's no religion here. Against those who sell religion, I remind you once again that God, the owner of religion, teaches people justice, teaches people peace, teaches mankind conscience, freedom, equality. No one here has a problem selling religion to anyone. Especially those who take the AKP's power, their references from the palace, can't teach us any religion because religion is not taught from palaces.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0165par0351	You'll get the reference from Kandil?
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0163par0352	There is no waste in dignity." I say you are waging war because of the message of the prophet Muhammad, who said that waste is forbidden against a court mentality. Have mercy, so that you may receive mercy." "What does the faith of a house against religion say to a prophet? Don't be sad, you'll be miserable. These are the messages, this religion, this faith, this abuse. I'm just dropping the masks, no one's selling religion to anyone. If you say, "We are from Vicdan." If you say, brother, people die of injustice, people die of lack of bread. Thousands, hundreds of thousands of people who have lost hope are unfairly broken in prisons. You're saying it's a country where headscarf women are forced open and tortured.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0166par0354	You're lying!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0163par0355	The AKP can neither teach us religion nor conscience. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0167par0358	Remember yourself on February 28th. You're in Congress today, and you can speak at the House.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0168par0359	What country do you live in?
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0163par0360	I live in my homeland, yes.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0168par0361	Are you being instructed by the Kandil?
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0169par0362	Don't shout!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0168par0363	Don't talk, know your place!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0170par0364	I'm fighting for justice.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0171par0365	Mr. President, I'd like to speak of the bench.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0172par0366	Mr. Özkan, please.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0171par0368	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0172par0371	Now, members of lawmakers, I'm going to make a promise to those who say things on the stand, so get ready for them, and I'm going to promise you right now, and I'm going to make a promise to you, and I'm going to make a promise to anyone who says anything. Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0171par0373	Mr. President, from the nation's bench to the nation's values, all its matters are discussed to the end, no one will be offended.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0173par0374	And that's you!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0171par0375	The values of this country, here, on our flag, the crescent represents our civilization, our martyrs, and the color represents the blood of our martyrs.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0174par0376	But you're doing demagogue, and you're not talking about anything else. But we speak the truth, we speak the truth, we speak the truth.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0173par0377	He's talking to you, you.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0171par0378	If you want to get up and send messages to the agnostic, unknown environments, by doing religious abuse here, that's what we call it. Look, in this geography, we can't allow it to be exploited over our values.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0173par0379	How come it's yours? They think they own everything.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0171par0380	What is abuse? For their dark purpose, it's to create controversy over the values of this country. What you're doing right now is abuse. So if you try to harvest something from the dark, hidden agenda by exploiting it, we'll call it no.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0173par0381	You're not the value of this country.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0171par0382	But here, let us extend our values, our morality, our law, our custom, our religion, and his references to the end.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0175par0383	Everything you have is fake, everything!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0171par0384	But it's not that, you see, there's been an argument. The President of France says: "We will rewrite Islam." Are you saying yes or no?
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0175par0385	ISISi, ISISi... Don't get me wrong, you're taking care of ISIS.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0171par0386	Today in Hatay, terrorist organizations are attacking there, slaughtering our forests, slaughtering our people. Are you saying yes or no? By exploiting women in that geography, by exploiting people's life values, economic resources, do you say yes to that, or no?
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0176par0387	You're the one who supported ISIS there.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0171par0388	The terrorist organisation PKK/PYD-YPG released the DEAS terrorists who committed that abuse in Cerablus, while Operation Olive Dalli continued.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0177par0389	You're totally demagogued.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0171par0390	You call that a yes or a no? We call it the "ret."
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0178par0392	ISIS is rallying, rallying. Aksaray is also at a rally.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0177par0393	What do you say? You're not telling the truth.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0171par0394	We call this country, this geography, any attack on the will of Kurds, Arabs, Turks to live together, and we oppose it to the end.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0177par0396	I don't know what you're up against! Am I inviting you to something wrong? I call for justice.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0179par0397	What are you telling the truth about?
tbmm-2020-10-27sit02spe0180par0401	Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor of the motion... Those who don't agree... There's a conflict between the clerks, we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0180par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 10th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. On Article 18 of the Law Proposal No. 221, the decision was not enough in the vote given by İstanbul MP Hüda Kaya and his friends. Now, I'm going to do the voting process again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. We're still negotiating the proposal. The commission is in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first article of Article 18 of the Law Proposal on Making Some Editings in the Meeting Foods, Agriculture and Forest Area, we offer and propose that the declaration of the Law be replaced with a notice. Fahrettin Yoshüz Enez Kaplan Hüseyin Örs Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. To talk about the motion, Iconian MP Fahrettin Yoshüstüs. Here you go, Mr. Hill.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0181par0018	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Although last year's beet base prices were announced on September 1st and we arrived on October 27th this year, we still can't find the answer to that. Mr. Ahmet Bestil, president of the Association of Conium Beets and Agriculture Products Producers, demanded $390 per ton for 16 polar sugar beets this year and $460 for 20 polar sugar beets, the campaign began, and the prices were not announced. The farmer's waiting for a price, the producers can't see ahead, our farmer who can't account for his income is going through a really tough time. The price of the base must be announced immediately. He demands it. Just him? In this regard, Mr. Huseyin Akay, chairman of the Executive Board of the Kaiseri Beets Planters' Co-operation, is made according to the sugar production quota system in Turkey. "Kota" means as much production as you need, but Turkey produced 150,000 tonnes less sugar than the quota set last year, although there are about 320,000 tonnes of sugar in stock. This also causes uncontrollably the production of starch-based sugar because it's cheap. Since this 320 thousand tonnes of sugar can't be melted, although the starch-based sugar quota is 67,500 tonnes, 600 thousand tonnes are produced and sold in Turkey. It's done in secret. This completely unregistered and unregistered situation puts the sugar industry in the face of a major problem and hardship, causing 320,000 tonnes of sugar not to be sold, he says, first increasing sugar price, and then waiting for the price of 2020 products of the growing beet farmer to be announced. This year, diesel, fertilizer, seed, medicine, and especially electricity and water costs increased by more than 25 per cent compared to the previous year. For beet producers who can't pay for these heavy input costs and their efforts, 16 polar beets have to cost $400 a ton. It is clear that a price to be determined at the bottom of this amount will be a victim of tens of thousands of farmers. Farmers producing beets all over Turkey have already begun dismantling. Beet delivery to sugar factories continues, while the people who run the country have not announced the price of beet soles for two months, and the beet producer is anxious. Dear lawmakers, TÜRKKEKER has signed a major discrimination in the beet transport fees of those producing beets to the Ionian Sugar Factory. The beet producer in Yunak is delivering a ton of its beets at 0.375 TL, as a delivery fee for the beets he delivered to the Illuminated Sugar Factory, while the women's hall and the beet maker of the beets he delivered to the Illen Candy Factory delivers the price of a ton at 0.97 TL. As a result of this unfair practice, the Yunak beet producer pays an extra $10.15 per ton. Thousands of Yugoslav beets producers pay the price for this segregation of Turkish price. This segregation of beet producers needs to be fixed immediately. Turkish executives need to eliminate this disgrace. Can you imagine, in Yunak, there are 300-350,000 tons of sugar beets produced, but because of this production, the extra money that goes from our farmers' pockets for transport costs alone is 3 million Turkish dollars. It's a shame, can it be such an injustice? In this regard, I invite our power, especially our district lawmakers, to the post. I say to Yunak, please correct this injustice against the farmer of Yunak. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0182par0024	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are four motions on the 19th article, and I will process them according to the order of violations. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 19 of Law Proposal 221 be removed from the proposal of the law. Murat Çepni Nusrettin Game İmam Taşçıer Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Zerpil Kemalbay Pek Göpeğü Semra Nice Ayşe Driver Ömer Ocalan Ridvan Turan Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Şanlıurfa MP Omar Ocalan wants to talk about the motion. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0183par0041	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly and our people. Of course, agriculture is one of the major issues of our country, but the agricultural issue and all the other issues of the country are interconnected. In the name of democracy in this country, if there is nothing in the name of human rights, all the other production areas are blocked from this country's agriculture to its industry, from farmers to livestock. See, the rational state mechanism doesn't run the country right now. The one who meets, holds power, puts human rights aside, suspends democracy, ignores rights, law and justice, thinks the HDP will put it on the target board and rise in the country. There is no friendly country in the Middle East, in Europe, anywhere in the world. He's facing an attack on peace... We're here, we'll continue our struggle. Just today, our former MP is being taken into custody. Can we talk about rights and law? We have dozens of members, citizens, sympathizers, members in custody, pressures, tortures, they've turned the whole country into a prison, they're talking about the game of democracy. Of course we'll talk about agriculture. We're a family of farming, farming. See, this year, the farmer, at the end of April of 2020, gave the price of the round peanut, between $65 and $70, the best. The red crustacean was worth 48 lira. Do you guys know what the current price is? The current price is 48 liras, 50 liras, top-of-the-line cashews. Nuts with shells, peanuts with red shells are between $37 and $40. What agriculture are you going to talk about? Friends are talking about hay. Friends, aside from the straw, imports that cost the lowest are agricultural products. Is it not imported or not imported beans, not imported wheat, not imported barley? All kinds of agricultural products, perhaps peanuts, nuts, are imported, and since there are no other countries in the world that produce peanuts except the United States, Iran and Turkey, they can't import them outside the peanut area, through their import barons. The Ministry of Agriculture must review itself as soon as possible. This is where they come and make agricultural beauty. I don't know how many million animals there are in 2002, 20 years later it's like this, the little head's so high, the big head's so high... Guys, 20 years ago, it was a century ago. We are now in the first quarter of the 21st century. The world is growing, and the population is growing. Is there any progress with this, in the field of agriculture, in a symbiotic way? Go and see, the farmer brings the water out of the ground at Hilvan, at the bottom of the river, at the bottom of the river, two miles [3 km] away. The GAP is the center of the GAP, with a huge river of Firats, where people can't water the farmland, and when they water it, they drill water. After that, the need for energy arises, Turkey's largest dam in energy, the Ataturk Dam; no energy is given, no energy is provided. You're wrong, not only in agriculture... but also in Osmaniye, is the peanut store, the peanut manufacturer very happy? Is the manufacturer so pleased that they also have peanuts in the silopi? Agriculture is over, it's exhausted, there's no mention of farming. It's all about the country's administration anyway. Your import barons -- you can call them businessmen -- you determine the amount of imports you have in one night, with certain decrees, thousands of tons of corn enter the country, hundreds of thousands of tons of corn comes in, wheat comes in. You give it to someone, you make them lose it to someone. Unfortunately, there's no room for the manufacturer, there's no room for the hard worker, the seasonal worker...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0184par0049	Pack it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0183par0050	Friends have made a statistic, and 35 of our Jaffa citizens have been subjected to traffic accidents or racist attacks, recorded in the last six months, from the people who went from Urban to other provinces to earn their living on their own. Do you have a solution to that? No. Hamaset, there's nothing but a hammock. Urbana is the third-largest city of Turkey's agriculture, with 5 per cent of its farmland. Do you have a project? No. Consolidate the masses with national emotions, exploit religious emotions, practice religious politics, racist politics; Consult the people at this point; there is no need for agriculture, there is no need for farming, there is no need for industry, there is no need for human rights, there is no need for democracy. You will lose, you will lose big, and you will be subjected to this persecution! I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0184par0053	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the first amendment of the 1st article of Law Proposal No. 221 is changed to five years in the first article of Article 19 of the current Law Proposal. Orhan Sarıbal Ayhan Gunitan Cengiz Gökçel Inspiration Özcan Aygun Okan Gaytancıoğlu Aydın Özer Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Anthalya MP Aydın Özer wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Özer.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0185par0066	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. A one-year period of agreement on the transfer of ownership of agricultural land is coming up. In the meantime, those who agree will be exempted from tax and tuition fees related to transactions. Legacy issues don't usually work out that quickly. Therefore, it would be unfair not to grant allowance exemption to those who fail to reach an agreement during this period. Such an approach is also contrary to the principle of equality and justice of the Constitution. Dear MPs, in my district of Antalya Province, Kumluca and Finike districts, we had a huge disaster around noon on Monday. Unfortunately, one of our citizens is dead. He says to himself, "May God have mercy on him one more time." I offer my condolences to his relatives. The disaster hit 2 counties; our 2,031 manufacturer was affected by the disaster; a total of 8,642 pieces of plastic and glass greenhouses were damaged, including 7,875 in Kumluca, 767 in Filica, and a total of 9,176 in Finland. Most of these gardens are citrus and pomegranate gardens. Both counties cost our farmers around $200 million. These readings are the ones that have been made so far. Our manufacturers who are affected by the pardon are still applying for damage assessment. Dear lawmakers, since we cannot prevent disasters, our farmers must be included in the TARSIM (TARSIM) within the Farmer's Recording System, regardless of the property issues of our agricultural areas. He pays 50% of the insurance premiums from the state budget, and the other 50 per cent from the farmer himself, but we see that the farmer is starting to take advantage of TARSIM insurance because he has a very high insurance premium. Insurance premiums must be adjusted to a reasonable level, provided the manufacturer can pay. A new regulation is needed in the system to ensure that all agricultural areas are included and registered immediately, regardless of property. In short, the TARSIM insurance system must be put to work in favour of the manufacturer. Congressmans, the ruling party says we support the farmer. And as a farmer's family member, as a brother who's given his life to farming, producing, I see that very closely. We don't actually support the farmer, we can't get the farmer to compete with producers in European countries. Now, look, in this area, the production of glass greenhouses is finished, and the glass greenhouses are all full, and the production is gone, and they've lost the season. These manufacturers have lost their facilities, we need to get them on their feet. And for him, as we've always said, we've seen in this pandemic period that food production is very important. If we don't produce it, we could be starving. Therefore, it is our duty to ensure that farmers, especially the Bank of Agriculture, and the debt of agriculture, will be delayed for at least two years without interest, and that our farmer will continue production in the next process so that he can start producing. I would like to address both the Treasury and Finance Minister and the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry: We need to complete the process of converting these glass greenhouses into plastic greenhouses. It's now 40 years old, 50 years of glass greenhouses that have completed their production life, and it's no longer contributing to agriculture. And we can't lift glass greenhouses when there's a chance we can remove all the plastic greenhouses in the smallest hail of this kind of disaster. So in the coming process, we really have to take it from the farmer, we really have to take it from the manufacturer, we have to do whatever it takes to make it grow, whatever it takes to keep it going. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0186par0074	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the first statement of the Law Proposal on Making Some Editings in the Meeting Foods, Agriculture and Forest Area shall be changed under the notice of the First Amendment of Article 19 of the Law. Fahrettin Yoshüz Enez Kaplan Muhammad Naci Cinisli Hüseyin Örs Orhan Çakır Ayhan Altıntaş Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Aksaray MP Ayhan Erel wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Erel.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0187par0089	Mr. President, dear MPs, great Turkish nation; at the beginning of my words, a brave, brave, honest son of our country, with great value, dedicated his life to the Turkish state, the Turkish nation, the cause, the Turkish nationalist, our Minister of Health Osman Durmus Beyi. May his place be in heaven and his soul be in peace. My condolences to the great Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party, the GOOD PARTY Group, to address Article 19 of the relevant law proposal. I salute you all with the greatest respect. It is vital that our agricultural land is protected to ensure that agricultural production will be maintained without interruption and that it will grow to an extent to respond to increasing food consumption. As long as the land under which I have promised is not divided, the heirs will be granted tax and tuition exemptions. Under the Law on Land Protection and Land Use, only the heirs of agricultural land with sufficient income were benefiting from such exemptions. The arrangement aims to make use of tax exemptions in the event that agricultural land heirs, whose land sizes are low enough, can reach an agreement within a year and protect their land. As it is known, the laws of the Civil Law have been abolished under the Law on Land Protection and Land Use, leaving the age of ownership through both the sale and inheritance of agricultural land under the permission of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Speaking of inheritance, I also expect support from lawmakers serving in the EC PARTI, who have become a gangrene in Turkey. The land, which has been mentioned among the heirs for many years, is unfortunately unresolved, and therefore a large portion of the heirs are giving up their land in their village, and they are out of agriculture. I think that the removal of the partnership with a legal arrangement, the re-enactment of the government, after a while, will solve this problem. Again, our country has superior opportunities for agricultural production due to its geographical advantages. In some areas, for example, it can be produced in 12 months of the year. For places like these, land economic sizes should be redesigned because the economic efficiency provided in different areas, provided by the region's agricultural areas, such as the average temperature, height, and product diversity, is the leading area. On the other hand, being limited to a year could cause division of agricultural areas. We think it should be extended a little longer. Thus, two years or more of the period can produce the desired results. Also, heirs who are unaware of the law must be introduced immediately into the implementation process. In addition to a amendment to the law we discussed in 2014, it was agreed that the Ministry would notify the heirs through notification and give them an extension on the transfer. Today, an application that will be sent immediately into the system will save time instead of giving additional time a negative time, instead of announcing the inheritance decision. Again, we think that the change, which is meant to be done along with this, would be faster to fix the ministry's mediation without delaying the heirs on their own terms. Let's not forget that it's important for both our citizens and the land to participate in agricultural production as soon as possible. In other words, the process is taking a long time because of the notification of the admissions to relevant property managers, as well as to the ministry. Instead of continuing the permit process through official correspondence, land-accessing offices can be established and assessed for turnsover applications. Some of the manufacturers seem to have stopped processing the land in a land that has not yet been inhabited by disagreements among the heirs.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0188par0098	Yes, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0187par0099	Mr. President, there are negativeities in Aksaray, my constituency district, especially in the matter of the giving of treasured land to peasants and farmers without land. These are being sold or rented in five hundred acres; poor poor farmers have difficulty buying them. However, if these are made available to citizens in 25 acres or 30 acres, it would be possible for poor citizens to rent these places, which have no money at all. Again, a number of victims occurred in Aksaray, my constituency area. Although there have been applications to the authorities and positions necessary for the removal of these victims, these sacrifices are increasing more and more each day. These sacrifices need to be resolved as soon as possible. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0189par0103	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the declaration "from the opening of the inheritance" to the framework decree of Article 19 of Law Proposal 221, which is in session. Özlem Rich Ramadan Can Tamer Mountain Feyzi Berdibek Mujahit Durmişoğlu Ahmet Özdemir Abdullah Güler Fehmi Albay Özalan Metin Gündoğdu Does the commission agree with the motion? We're making positive assessment and appreciation, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0190par0117	Motive...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0189par0118	I'm reading the reason for the motion: If they agree on the transfer of agricultural property within a year from the opening of the inheritance, it is intended that the heirs be exempted from the allowance and the stamp tax on the process of the transfer of the immovables. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 20. The first two motions I read are the same. I'm going to process these motions together. I'm having the motions read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 20 of Law Proposal 221 be removed from the proposal text. Orhan Sarıbal Ayhan Gunitan Cengiz Gökçel Inspired by Özcan Aygun Okan Gaytancıoğlu The signatures of the other motion are: Ridvan Turan Nusrettin Gamein Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı İmam Taşçıer Ayşe Driver Sepil Kemalbay Pekyözeğü Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We can't participate, Mr. President. Adana MP Ayhan Barut is asking for a statement about the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Gunpowder.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0191par0143	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all with love and respect. I have taken a pledge on the second joke of Article 8/I of Land Protection and Land Use Law 5403, which has been abolished by the 20th article of the proposal. This second joke is requested to be removed completely. In other words, they're asking for a full removal of the right to take over. As I said before, I've done it. Here we see an example of the logic of the law, because it was accepted again in 2014 in this Parliament. Our friends, members of the Republican People's Party, applied to the Constitutional Court that day in 2014; they said that the second joke of this law was not true, that the owners were wronged, that they were harmed. And I'm here to say, if six years, seven years ago, that law was right, why are you changing it now, completely removing it? Or if it's wrong, then why did you bring it? Let's not make another mistake. I suggest that there be some changes, rather than a complete removal of the right to acquisition on agricultural land. For example, it's a law worth protecting the size of the land, so for example, the title managers can issue a month's notice before the sale. It's a month's wait, that might be it. Or the sale can be made from the heirs of the estate, from the borderlines -- those with the right of pre-employment -- by collecting provisions. Or, you know, the tax rates are too high, the tax rates are too high, the real values of the fields aren't shown, the tax rates can be reduced by the actual statement. Let's change this matter so that you don't suffer the consequences of the changes you've made today, so that it doesn't become a problem again in the future. I say we protect our manufacturers and owners in that sense. Mr. President, the whole world knows once again that the importance of agriculture and health with its pandemic is revealed, so everyone says, let me say it for once. I'm an agricultural engineer, and as an agricultural engineer, I've been managing and chairing democratic mass organizations for years. We've told so many stories about how much agriculture is important that maybe we didn't understand it well at the time. It was left to the natural flow of agriculture, but this pandemic showed us that agriculture is very valuable. That's why we need to appreciate agriculture, but unfortunately today, it's not like that, it's the wrong thing to do. For example, while agriculture is in the middle, Agriculture and Forestry Minister Bakir Pakdemirli recently said in Malatya: "In the last two years, we have grown from 189 billion to 276 billion euros during the presidency's government system to 275 billion euros," he says. All right, I'm asking you, drop the perception, Mr. Secretary, drop the perception. The farmer's debt, which was $4.5 billion in 2002, increased to $180 billion today, up 45 times. If the farmer produced it, if he was earning what he planted, why, in the last 18 years, did the Farmer Recording System say that the number of farmers fell from 2,800,000 to 2,100,000, and 700,000 farmers were cut off from the plant? For the first time in the history of the Republic, lands have fallen below 20 million hectares. Why are you hiding this? Why is this black painting in agriculture described as a pink painting or a rosebud? Doesn't the minister see that from seed to fertilizer, medicine to mazota, energy, everything goes up 200 percent and above? Today, dollars go by, dear friends, everything depends on dollars. Like a gas pump at a gas station, the dollar rose every second, like a meter, came to the 8.20, so all the entries in the agriculture went up and went up parallel to this. Dear friends, our valued lawmakers were 22 billion in agriculture last year, increasing 36 per cent in the budget of 2020, and today we regret to see that support remained 22 billion in the 2021 budget as well.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0192par0149	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0191par0150	In proportion, in this period when we came from 2006 to 2020, when the agricultural law should not be less than one percent of the 21st Amendment, the farmer's support should be 318 billion, the 142 billion paid, I just said, 176 billion that the farmer will receive. Dear friends, this government, this government, doesn't even give this minister the right to be given the farmer. I mean, they make fun of us, farmers, manufacturers. We're clearly exporters. As they say, we're clearly importers. Because between 2003 and 19, we were clearly importing $105 billion, $27 billion short, so our export is $27 billion lower. While our country was losing foreign currency by import, our farmer was unsupported, and our money went to foreign farmers. Dear friends, there was a test of 15,000 people in Ankara, İzmir, Istanbul on October 17th for the sale of wholesale and retail products attended by agricultural engineers and agricultural pharmaceutical dealerships. The Department of Agriculture took this test. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, it's important, one more minute.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0193par0155	We're not. You've got a good voice. But I'm not giving it more than a minute. I didn't give it to the vice presidents.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0191par0156	There are 15,000 victims, Mr. President. Well, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0193par0159	It's about the same motions, Mr. Sevin Coshkun. Here you go, Mr. Coshkun.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0194par0162	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 20th amendment of the proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, nature is the common property of society, not of anyone's private property. In this context, we must preserve the water, the forest, all the blessings that nature has given us as a common being of society. But as far as we're concerned, agricultural production sites and forests, all common beings, are being pursued by global capital. Dear lawmakers, although it seems to be a positive change in Article 20, the agricultural areas are being opened to construction, and the use of purpose is facilitated. Places of agricultural quality reserved as a protection area and places that are allowed to use for non-advised purposes without permission and cannot be used for this purpose, but are not required to be allowed to meet the development areas of the settlements. The statement is extremely disabled. On the contrary, that's how the aimless use of agricultural fields happens. Once again, permission to be allowed again is described as a proper practice, including agricultural structures within the large plain borders. However, allowing planned areas to meet developmental needs in the settlements will cause problems over a long period of time. The land can be converted into a trade and industry area with plan renovations after a plan has been adopted as a mandatory settlement. In particular, it is seen as a threat to the general purpose of applying for public benefit, such as a treatment facility, and then to renovate the plan and then to change the function. In this context, these areas must be allowed to be allowed again. For example, Kanal Istanbul, which has been highly discussed and is known for its problems in doing so, has gained legal status under these conditions. The third airport and the Kaz Mountains were also legalized by natural investors. Dear lawmakers, we are facing an agricultural and food regime that is taking over financial capital all over the world today. The January 24th Decisions, launched after the 1980 military coup in our country, weakened the government's regulatory tools in agriculture over the 90s, lost power by the 2000 crisis, Dervis prescriptions and structural harmonisation policies. The AKP's power, however, has swept agriculture under the feet of capitalist and neoliberal order. Agriculture has evolved to an unsustainable point by the AKP's 18-year policies. Turkey's 26 million hectares of agricultural land have unfortunately reduced to 23 million hectares in the last 18 years of AKP power. So in Turkey, agricultural areas have been reduced by 12.3 per cent over the past 18 years, and the field of vegetable gardens has shrunk by about 15 per cent. In 2002, 7 million 458,000 people were employed in agriculture, while in February of 2020, the number was reduced to 4 million 157,000 people. As a result of these policies, the number of people employed in the agricultural sector in the past 18 years has been 44 per cent, while the number of farmers has dropped 48 per cent in the last 12 years. Despite all this shrinking in agriculture, our farmers' debts increase daily. Farmers owe $128 billion to banks, including the first three months of 2020, and about $10 billion to agricultural loan co-ops. Precious lawmakers continue to insist that the AKP does not produce permanent solutions to structural problems in agriculture, but it insists on false policies that will deepen existing structural problems. With the structural problems of agricultural production so obvious...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0195par0171	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0194par0172	...APP continues to produce policies for the capital, instead of supporting the farmer, the manufacturer, to remove the farmer and manufacturer from production. First, we demand that AKP give up neoliberal policies and implement an agricultural policy that takes into account the demands of multinational companies rather than the demands of multinational companies. Turkey must be brought back to a self-sustaining position in agriculture with a production, employment and sharing policy, where small-scale producers are based instead of the interests of large companies. Dear lawmakers, as famous thinkers say, nature lives without man, but man cannot live after nature is gone. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0196par0177	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that the statement of the 20th article of the Law Proposal on Making Some Arrangements in the Meeting Foods, Agriculture and the Forest Area be replaced with the following statement. İbrahim Halil Oral Enez Kaplan Fahrettin Yoyş Hüseyin Örs Orhan Çakır Aylin Brave Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Ankara MP İbrahim Halil Oral wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Oral.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0197par0190	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the People's Council on the 20th Amendment of Law Proposal 221, on behalf of the PARTI Group, with respect to the General Assembly. I would like to express my condolences to Mr. Osman Durmus, the health minister of the 57th government, Allah's mercy, his grieving family, the Turkish nationalist community, and the Nationalist Movement Party. Respected lawmakers, the right of pre-accession of border-owned property in farmland was unfortunately brought in by the AK PARTI administration in 2014. It seems that the process has not been handled properly, the complaints have increased, and there has been abuse. Therefore, the EC PARTY wants to remove its provision in 2014 after six years. In fact, it is known that because of this practice, there are those who are gaining lots, land prices are being increased, and investors are being victimised. I wish the process had been managed by bringing regulations to prevent these abuses and this substance could have been carried out with sincerity. So it would contribute to the integration of land and sustainability in agriculture, but the concept of sustainability has become unusable for agriculture in our country. Dear lawmakers, this report you see in my hand has been drawn up by the Union of the Chamber of Agriculture of Turkey. It includes demands and proposals for the districts of our agricultural rooms in Ankara. Other than local problems, some problems have arisen in almost every district, even all over our country. From the moment I was elected MP in the 27th term, I have expressed my views on agriculture, both on the field and under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We see again because of this report, which I said and continued to mention two years ago, that the problems are still ongoing; the interest of Agriculture Loan and Agriculture Bank debt still bends the farmer's back, the increase in irrigation prices still forces the farmer, and there is still no solution to the hobby gardens in areas that have lost its agricultural quality, and the amount of support prices and the time of explanations are still the concern of our agricultural workers, and the cost of agricultural electricity subscriptions is still in our farmer's dreams, and its prices are still collapsing on tops like karabasan, and there is still no solution to the shortages of water lines from the dams, and there are still the problems of agriculture in the city, which are still living in Ankara. Half an hour from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our farmer is still crying blood in the villages of Lakebaş, Poletlı, Salaklikochhisar, and Elmadağ. In our country's capital, the genius agricultural sustainability is in places, I'm afraid. On top of that, we've recently learned that customs duties in the import of grain have been nullified. I would like to read just one of the dozens of problems in this report: there is a reduction in wheat fields. The reason for this situation is that prices are inefficient and underfunded. What kind of mind can make decisions that will facilitate the import of wheat and barley from abroad, while the respected lawmakers give up their fields because the wheat farmer can't make money, because he can't turn himself? What kind of mental eclipse is that? This decline of customs tax is clearly a betrayal of the Turkish farmer. Rather than lowering prices by supporting the wheat farmer, choosing to raise foreign farmers is a decision that is only fitting for the AK PARTI power. According to the Turkish Statistical Agency and Social Security Agency, the number of farmers in our country has decreased by 48 per cent over the past two years. In the last seven years, 3.4 million hectares of farmland have been abandoned. What if we put up a front for the sale of border-owned land, and we don't? Congressmans, the government's agricultural policy is a total disaster. The Netherlands, which has only 4 per cent of Turkey's agricultural land, is ranked second in the world in exports of agricultural products.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0198par0199	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0197par0200	Thank you. So a country as big as Iconia is exporting more agriculturally than we are. It's an embarrassment to all of us. I met many farmers who shed tears in Ankara's villages, and I chatted with them. Actually, it's not them who should be crying, it's us. We must shed tears because we cannot leave healthy, productive, domestic grain, vegetables, and fruits for the future, our children. We should shed tears for every farm worker who's unemployed. You could understand if you could cry, as the late Necip Fazil put it in his dialogue in the theatre play. I repeat: "Your salt is dry, because you can't cry, you haven't understood the farmer's problem in 18 years, our future and agriculture. With these feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0199par0204	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are 3 motions on the 21st article. I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second sentence added to the law with the 21st article of the Law Proposal 221 is removed from the proposal. İsmail Atakan Üsver Okan Gaytancıoğlu Cengiz Gökçel Ayhan Gunpowder Orhan Sarıbal Inspiration Özcan Aygun Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Karaman MP İsmail Atakan Üsver wants to talk about the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0200par0219	Mr. President, the only man's regime imposed on Turkey by the Cumhur Alliance, combined with the incompetence of one man's dishonest ministers, today Turkey falls into an economic depression, and agriculture gets its share. In fact, it's obvious what to do in agriculture, it's about finding the will to do it. What could be done during this period? For example, the EC PARTI could apply the 21st article of the Agricultural Law, which it did not implement, and by law, it could increase farmers' support to this rate, which should be given 1 per cent of the national income. Since 2007, our farmer has reached 175 quadrillion liras -- with old money -- from power. The AKP, which finds money for guaranteed contractors, is unable to raise money for the farmer. For example, from January 2018 to January 2020, energy increases in agriculture have been 108 percent. Our farmer also uses electricity for more than housing. The cost on his back has made our farmer's agricultural activity unprofitable, unprofitable, and aimless. The electricity used by the farmer could be priced off, it hasn't been done, it hasn't even occurred to you. For example, the expensiveness of electricity increases the cost of production in Inner Anatolia, which is obliged to use underground water to produce agricultural production. In this context, agricultural power supports in six eastern and southeast provinces could have been applied in the Central Anatolian region, at least in Karaman, Konya and Aksaray districts, which were the first in the country to consume agricultural electricity. Electricity isn't supported here, it doesn't even occur to me to be supported again. The increase in animal production, which has reached 50 percent of the price of bait, has reached the extent that all our breeders, especially our small-scale breeders, will abandon production. Animal production should also be supported. Mother goat and sheep support have remained the same since 2014. Again, the herd management, the shepherd's support, has not been increased in years, so growing social security premiums each year have melted against you. Our growers expect these supports to be improved. The rehabilitation of the Meras and free vaccins are also the most important benefits that can be given to small animalism. Milk producers have reached a vital limit at the point of being or not being. It depends on the support of the milk manufacturer, who hasn't been able to collect the milk he's been selling for a long time. In the process, we also learned that nothing, foreign currency increases, fuel, energy and food increases don't increase inflation, but inflation increases when raw milk is increased. Those of you who don't listen to the milkmaker, let them go and look at the slaughterhouses. The slaughterhouses are full of milk cows brought to the slaughter. If this goes on, milk production will go down, so the price of milk will already go up, and that will be inflation, which will happen to the small-scale manufacturer. The way of the mind is one. Milk producers need to meet their price expectations before it gets to this point. And the price of the beet base is still unaccounted for. The ambiguity at the price of beets has dropped the farmer into the hands of beet loan sharks who coveted the extra quotas. The price of the beets must be announced at once, and the price to be explained should be in accordance with the actual costs, not with the fabricated inflation, but with the actual cost, not below $390. With the presidential decree issued last week, zero customs in the import of wheat, barley and corn was extended until January 1, 2021. The ministry's support of foreign farmers through imports is exemplary when agricultural land in Turkey is empty. Supporting foreign farmers through imports when the government, which has been domestic and national for years, understands domesticity and nationalism? The Minister of Agriculture says that we have risen to the first place in the agricultural product, in Europe, and in the world, we are the first ten. Let's look at some numbers. What's the truth? The population of Turkey is one-fiveth of the population, and the Dutch export of 2019 was 94.5 billion euros, and Turkey's is 16 billion euros. Another fact is that the agricultural production of Turkey per population does not increase in proportion to population growth. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I finish?
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0201par0228	Pack it up. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0200par0229	Agriculture growth dropped from 8.7 per cent in 2002 to 1.3 per cent in 2018, with an average of 2.6 per cent in 2003-2018, while Turkey's growth in this period was 5.5 per cent. The Minister of Agriculture said agriculture and the forest were a matter of politics and could not be a source of political influence. According to some figures that have come to work, what is agriculture, not politics? That's what politics is all about. The AKP has sunk Turkish agriculture, and the Minister is trying to hide it. What I'm going to say is that the problems of agriculture and animalism cannot be solved by taking a politically useful data and ignoring others. It's like how the blind describe the elephant, and whoever gets the elephant, he makes the recipe for the elephant. Instead of pretending to be blind, the ministry must accept the obligation of Turkey to become a self-sufficient country in agriculture and support agricultural production by owning the Turkish farmer. It is the easiest and cheapest way to develop Turkey. My respects to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0202par0234	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 21st Article of the Law Proposal 221 be changed again as a restitution. Ridvan Turan Mahmut Toğrul Nusrettin Gamein Imam Taşçıer of Serbil Kemalbay Pekbaşü Mahmut Celadet Gıdalı İmam Taşçıer Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0203par0249	Thank you. Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 21st Amendment. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly's beloved workers. Dear lawmakers, we've been talking about two bags of legislation a lot in the last few weeks, and we've been talking about it. One of them is the Law on Electrical Market Law, which stands in line with the Law on Making Some Arrangements in Food, Agriculture and Forestry, which we are currently discussing, and it is the Law on Changes in Some Laws. In parliament, these laws are being rushed through commissions and brought to the agenda of the General Assembly, but a large part of society opposes a large portion of the proposed proposals. Food, environment, electricity, agricultural engineers, environmental and ecology movements, farmers, peasants, food producers -- those who worry about them, those who study them raise their objections to every two bags of legislation. Some of the provisions in the food proposal were withdrawn by the president's instructions, as we have seen in the press, after the community was willing to cancel on this issue. Despite years of objections to the other proposal -- given some anti-management challenges -- there has been no decision to cancel or withdraw. The public struggles against this bag of laws basically indicate that the preparation of proposals is antidemocratic and unfair. Thus, there is a need for an additional mechanism for the preparation of these legislation proposals. The center of these mechanisms should include food communities, professional rooms, relevant research units, food cooperatives, farmers' unions, relevant university structures, consumer associations, social initiatives that target access to public and reliable information. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers, the 21st article of the proposal, the areas allowed to use non-advised areas in large plain protection areas, include that it cannot and cannot be used without permission. In places that have been declared a large plain protection area, applications for non-foreign purposes should not even be considered without plans for land use. This matter should have been included in the arrangement, but no explanations have been made. The law proposes savings for deforestation of agricultural land, including large lowland conservation areas, with the decision of public interest. But at this point, unfortunately, public benefit can be made for almost every issue. Even if a private factory wants to expand its storage space, it can be decided on the basis of public interest. Again, there are no alternatives to implementation, which are the grounds for the deforestation of agricultural areas. Most of the time, the concept of the alternative field is considered to be a place where the application does not have any other land, and it is not even researched whether or not alternative areas are available in the region. An open-and-shut arrangement was supposed to be part of the proposal, which unfortunately is not part of an arrangement. Re-conditions for permission are not required to meet the needs of the development area of the areas in the matter. There is no placement and development area, there is no alternative area. Declaring a large plain protection area is undoubtedly crucial for the protection of agricultural areas, but the practice must not only be announced, it must be prevented from using these areas without purpose. The decision recently made in Eskişehir to build thermal power plants in the Alpa Plain, which has been declared to be a large plain protection area, deepens our concerns. Agricultural investments are encouraged on the plains under the status of large plain protection. As part of this investment plan, agricultural land in the area can be allowed to build administrative buildings or houses for up to 75 square metres at most. It is one of the flaws of this proposal that no substance has made an offer regarding illegal constructions in these plains before. Besides Turkey being the tourist capital, it also points out that not a single plain from Antalya, the capital of agriculture, has ever been protected.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0204par0258	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0203par0259	I'm ending it, Mr. President. However, the lowlands in Antalya, which have been sacrificed to investments such as tourism, construction, industry, highway, energy, mining and dams, are at great risk. Finally, protecting agricultural land, increasing agricultural production, of course, is a prerequisite for the continued production of agricultural workers, but it is not the only reason. The height of agricultural inputs, lack of support, the low price of producers, the presence of brokers and brokers, social constraint and import policies are part of the reasons why producers avoid agricultural activity. Unfortunately, unlike the proposed proposal, agricultural areas are being opened to construction, and use without purpose is being opened up. Thus, in this way, we oppose this clause. I hereby salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0205par0264	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of the Law Proposal on Making Some Editings in the Meeting Foods, Agriculture and Forest Area shall be changed under the notification of Article 21 of Article 1. İsmail Konçuk Fahrettin Yolş Enez Kaplan Hüseyin Örs Arslan Shellcuoğlu Orhan Çakır Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Eskişehir MP Arlekcuoğlu wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Shellguy.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0206par0279	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 21 of the Law Proposal on the Compensation of Food, Agriculture and Forestry Areas. I salute the High Council. I also celebrate Mevlit Kandili, which will be understood tomorrow, and the 97th anniversary of Republic Day, which will be celebrated on Thursday. We know the soil is formed in thousands of years. Today, because of food safety, the soil has strategic significance. In our country, urbanization is, unfortunately, mainly in plains, plains, plains. In addition, in our country, which is in an important earthquake belt, we have increased our risk of earthquakes by being lowered to flat ground when cities are possible on the rocks. Congressmans, we must be very jealous of the protection of the land. Some cities, such as Eskişehir, Izmit, Bursa, Antalya, Bitlis, Van, were built on the plains, where they grew up more in these directions. These are our cities, which were built seventy-eight years before today. Now from a high point of view, we find this situation strange, and under the circumstances at the time, this urbanization may have been considered natural; we can't afford that kind of structure today, and there's no excuse for it. The exception to the construction of agricultural land must not be brought. To tolerate certain things in today's conditions does not mean that they will be welcomed for generations to come. Organised industrial zones, such as schools, must be maintained by protecting farmland around them. If an organised industrial zone is narrow to one place, another part of the city can be replaced, and that's how it's done. Or if the school is too small, you should go to another part of the city to start a school. The farmland around them should not be sacrificed to these structures. The second paragraph of this article does not require permission in planned areas to meet the needs of the development area. If the text is legalized, it will be turned upside down by the law when the exception is made. The 21st article must be reconsidered within these views. Today, the importance and value of the land is evident, while the use of agricultural fields for other purposes is a conscious taxi. I would like to bring to your attention the issue of this law on the grounds of Article 32, which is likely to be withdrawn. It is our citizen's right to know the latest developments in the world in nutrition. This is a subject of extreme speculation. When it comes to feeding, we talk about a matter that concerns everyone. We have to be brave to tell the public about reliable, accepted results. For example, Lancet (Lancet) is one of the world's three most prestigious journals in general medicine. In a study conducted from 1990-2017, 195 countries reported that in 27 years, a large amount of salt, carbs, or processed meat has shortened its life expectancy, and 11 million people have died in countries referred to as these. The media must carry out its mission to pass this investigation on to the public. Under the guise of a scientist, someone can appear on television screens and say, "This is bad, this is bad, this is bad, this is bad." For thousands of years, wheat has been an important food ingredient in human feeding and therefore feeding the Turkish nation. If you're doing this criticism, you should be able to substitute an alternative in the country's terms. The expression that puts people under stress should be careful, and the widespread media should be careful for such a publication. I think this law was an opportunity to conclude what I was talking about, and it's a bad thing to withdraw. Last week, I gave a speech about the help of a beet transplant. Thanks to Mr. Deputy Minister of Agriculture, they took care of it, and then we had a 25-minute phone call with the director general. Here's the deal: In recent years, it's been agreed with companies that have been moving by about 23 per cent less than the price of beet transplants. However, these companies find this money incomplete and charge the beet farmer extra. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0207par0290	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0206par0291	The beet farmer has a hard time giving this money away. Mr. General Manager, is it bad, we're moving it 23 percent cheaper. He's using his statement, but he doesn't explain the prenup. And I'm afraid I didn't get a satisfactory answer when I told him why he didn't get it for 30 percent less. The government must reveal whatever the terms of the tender are. As a congressman, I didn't learn how to carry beets for cheap this year. The citizens are uncomfortable with these vague jobs. It's everybody's right to want transparency. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0207par0294	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on the 22nd article. I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second sentence added to the law shall be removed from the proposal. Okan Gaytancıoğlu Hasan Baltacı Cengiz Gökçel Ayhan Gunpowder Orhan Sarıbal Inspiration Özcan Aygun Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Kastamonon MP Hasan Baltacı wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Axeman.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0208par0309	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. Now, there's a saying out there, for people who look like they're going to do some very important things, they say, "My brother, what are you doing, drowning wolves?" Now, when the Law of Agriculture is being discussed here today, the farmer in the street, the farmer who's outgrown the production, the farmer who's out of debt tells us: "Are you drowning the wolf? What are you doing there? What are you doing there, my brother? What are you doing in our business, what law are you going to solve our problems, and what law are you doing there?" In response, the polls show that trust in the Parliament has fallen to one percent. We're here today to discuss the Agricultural Law. Actually, there's supposed to be the Minister of Agriculture here. You've prepared a law proposal for 61 of our MPs -- here, from Centipede, from Urbana, from Burdur, from Malatya, from here -- but here we are, discussing the issues of Turkey's agriculture in an environment where there is no Minister of Agriculture. But what are we supposed to do? Guys, what are we supposed to do? We need to talk about the farmer's debts, we need to talk about imports, we need to talk about destroyed farmland, we need to talk about unplanted farmland, we need to talk about the upcoming food crisis, and above all, we need to talk about base prices. What do we need to talk about? The farmer wants to announce the beet base price, we need to talk about it. What do we need to talk about? The milk producer is exhausted from producing milk, he's expecting a raise, and we need to talk about this raise. What do we need to talk about? The wheat producer, our own villager, has produced wheat, he gives $1,650 to the Earth crop office, and we import at $2.145. Why are we making this import at $2.145, and why are we importing it? Actually, we need to talk about this. We need to discuss the farmer's debts, folks. Why don't you take 1 kilo of food in exchange for 1 litre of milk? We need to talk about that. Why did we pay $27.5 billion in grain imports in 18 years when we had to pay 176 billion from the Agricultural Law? We need to talk about this. I'd like to give you an example: Eighteen years in Kastamonu, we had 103 thousand farmers from Agriculture Loan Co-ops, 75,000 of them in administrative pursuit, and 18.250 farmers were executed. Here, we need to talk about this here. If we talk about this here, trust in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will also increase. In Kastamonu, the administration again pursued the 4,012 farmers who used loans in the first nine months of 2020 because they could not repay 3,063. Of these farmers, 135 have been put to work. This year alone, the delayed loans to the Agriculture Loan Cooperates are worth $35 million, my friends. What do we need to talk about? We need to discuss debts. In particular, we are one of Turkey's oldest cities in the Republic, but according to the figures explained by TÜİK (TİK) a month ago, we are also one of Turkey's poorest provinces. Why are we one of the poorest provinces? Our mines have been sold, our factories sold, our ports sold. Now, the Sugar Factory is about to be sold, folks. We've fought so many times not to sell the Candy Factory, but the sale of the Sugar Factory is still on the privatisation list, my friends. However, beet production is constantly increasing in Kastamon, given the opportunity. 420,000 tons of beets will be processed this year, and 56 thousand tons of crystal sugar will be produced, but what the farmer is wondering is, how much base price are you going to give on 16 polar sugars? Their demand is $390. They're demanding $460 for 20 polar sugar beets. Dear friends, I don't blame a general president, who goes to the fields wearing galoshes, to throw tea at the shopkeepers, but I advise you to leave your palaces, get out among the people, go around the fields without galoshes, and listen to the farmer's troubles. Because if you don't leave the palace, one day the people will enter it. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0209par0319	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Paperman, please.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0210par0323	Thank you, Mr. President. At the weekend, the Syrians, who were loaded into our country with instructions taken from emotional, hamasy words and external focal points, performed simultaneous demonstrations in many cities, including Kayseri. They're trying to open the SOS flags that they can't raise in their country they're running away from, they're shouting slogans, they're provoking our citizens who are overwhelmed by the economic crisis. Who organizes these simultaneous provocations? What communication networks do these groups have? Are these networks under surveillance? Why, at this time, when the bar elections were postponed as an excuse for the pandemic process, and the national holidays were banned, who allowed the Syrians to do so? The issue of the Syrians is too vital to be ignored or ignored or ignored. That's what our country is really about. He says that the necessary measures must be taken immediately, before the consequences of which are impossible, and I respectfully salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0209par0328	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose reassignments of the Law Proposal 221 in Article 22 of the current Law Proposal. Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı Ridvan Turan Nusrettin Gamein Zerpil Kemalbay Pekyözü İmam Taşçıer Semra Nice Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Bitlis MP Mahmut Caladet Gaydalı wants to talk about the motion.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0211par0341	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, on behalf of my party and group, I have made a pledge on the 22nd Article of Law Proposal 221 that is being discussed. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, before I begin my remarks, there are serious allegations that many human bones have been exposed during the ongoing work of the palace and the nation's garden in Ahlat. That these bones have either been crushed or hidden by machines in order to ensure that construction doesn't stop. This matter needs to be seriously focused on. A new joke is added to Article 14 of Land Protection and Land Use Law 5403. The 14th article is intended to determine and preserve large plains with high agricultural potential. The AKP's lawmaking technique prohibits anything in general, followed by a new joke which determines who and how this ban will be eliminated. This creates contradictions and dilemmas on the matter of the law. For example, Article 5403 states that agricultural land found in large plains cannot be used except for the purpose of its purpose, but can be carried out by the Ministry by mutually agreeing with the Ministry for public benefit. What is the point of saying that if there is a public benefit, then it is normal? Because the concept of power's public interest and the concept of public interest does not mean the same thing. Because it's impossible to say that there's any kind of compensation from a social point of view when the power is a public benefit to the AVMs, the HESS, the contractors, the hotels, the palaces. For example, the Tsarho region of Bitlis Province of Ahlat is an agricultural area. This place has been handed over to the Archers Foundation, and now it's being built into a public garden. It's all in the public interest of you, but it doesn't contribute to the country's economy in terms of production. But without and without, agricultural areas should be used only for agriculture. But now, the joke that's brought in -- like the stuff that's been brought in so far -- has two meanings that are both protective and a determinant. On the one hand, it is said that agricultural fields cannot be used for another purpose, while on the other hand, it can be used for the needs of the settlement. In production areas, concreteization is required to stand firm in the face of any legalizing steps. This protective attitude, in the first place, must be demonstrated by the ruling group. Each law, however, has destroyed both agricultural areas and removed the manufacturer from agriculture. With farmers waiting for support from Parliament and power producers, only hope is distributed. No step has been taken to reduce the burden of the farmer, to reduce the cost of input; the production of the product did not save the cost, but the support they received was seized by banks. Dear lawmakers, export anxiety has been added to the farmer's problems that have not been solved for years, due to the coronavirus. The state of production and the situation of our farmers, which is a lump of problems, is clearly summing up the TİK and SGK data. The number of farmers registered to the SGK has decreased by 48 per cent in 12 years, not just farmers, but agricultural employment has also suffered serious injuries. According to TÜİK data, the number of people employed in the agriculture sector dropped from 7 million 458,000 in 2002 to 4 million 157,000 in February 2020; employment in agriculture has dropped 44%. Millions of people in the world and Turkey, especially under the influence of pandemics, face unemployment. At a meeting of the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly on October 19th, 149 million people worldwide were unemployed during the pandemic process. The effects of the pandemic process on unemployment are still in existence, while the most important policy production chain to prevent it should be reconsidered. The production here is not just industrial production, but the development of an agriculturally self-sustaining network.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0212par0347	Here, pick it up, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0211par0348	If the president admits to betraying cities in recent years as he has failed to study in the past few weeks, he will see failures and errors in agricultural policy tomorrow. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0212par0351	I now submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Mr. Good Name, come in.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0213par0355	Mr. President, the additional article of the Contracted Private and Private Law was adopted in 2013, and the article is referred to as "employment and positions of public institutions and institutions" after the contracting men and men have completed at least seven years of service. Seven years later, the law's out, it doesn't apply. Law number 7250 was adopted just three months ago, on July 16, 2020, and we opened the way for the 15th article to allow contract workers to go home at the end of their shift. Where? It's been three months, the law doesn't apply. I've talked to the Joint Chiefs, Deputy Secretary of Defense, and there's no results. What is it? Pandemic. Officer, petty officer, officer coming out. Pandemic only affects contractors? The lower court judges do not care about the Constitutional Court, the General Staff does not accept the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. If these laws were not to be enforced, why did we take them out? Isn't that disrespectful to the will of the House? Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0212par0360	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the "instruction " of the "instruction of the article 22 of the Law Proposal on the Meeting Food Agriculture and Forest Area " be replaced by "adulgated notice. " Fahrettin Yoshüz Enez Kaplan Behic Steel Hüseyin Örs Orhan Çakır Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't agree, Mr. President. Mersin MP Behic Çelik wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0214par0372	Mr. President, I have been promised a motion on the 22nd amendment of the proposal. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, when you say agriculture, we're burning up. I've looked into the general grounds of the proposal. Our country's agriculture has grown 14 years in the last 17 years, which is what it stands for. The average growth of 2.8 per cent year-on-year between 2003 and 19 years. The growth of 2019 is 3.3 percent. Our agricultural product increased by 37 billion TL in 2002 and increased by 7.5 times in 2019 and 275 billion dollars. Our export was $3.7 billion in 2002, and in 2019, it went up to $18 billion. I'm asking you, is this information worth anything? Of course not, because in statistics and economics, there is a concept of comparative superiority. In 2002, when we call our agricultural product $37 billion, the exchange rate at the time is $30.5 billion. The $275 billion mentioned in 2019 is 47.5 billion. So it's roughly an agricultural product that we've raised from $30 billion to $47.5 billion in 18 years. Although there are no 50 percent increase here, we have increased it seven and a half times. It is impossible to understand what kind of conscience it is to write for the general reason. Dear lawmakers, Turkey had 27 million hectares of usable agricultural land, plains, in 2002, but its farmland dropped to 23 million hectares in 18 years. So 4 million hectares have been pushed out of agriculture. First-class farmland is now open to construction. We're dealing with a policy of political power that puts the countryside in a difficult position and forces cities to emigrate almost forced by necessity. In 2014, when there were 34,000 villages in Turkey, it was reduced to 18,000 and the entire village's assets were looted. The functionality of Village Law 224 has unfortunately been destroyed. The people of the countryside, who cannot live through agriculture, have been made an object of urban unemployment. Those who remain in the countryside are either retired or old people who are not real manufacturers. The statistics of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Ministry of Trade on agriculture are not inconsistencies or current. So he can't share healthy data in TÜİK. Dear lawmakers, with all due respect to power, I'm afraid the country has become addicted to agriculture. Asia Minor is no longer a geography that sows or harvests animals compared to the past. As the world runs, you take three or five steps with our acquish, you hang out in 2002, you can't go any further. So for him, let's look at the gross domestic agricultural share: 1%. This legal share, unfortunately, has been reduced to 0.37 percent in your transition. The agricultural sector's input costs are extremely high, and we're looking at a 150 percent increase. There's no solution. Since irrigation investments are not funded, they wait in many places. The agricultural sector is becoming increasingly backward and the farmer is in deep debt. Currently, total farmers have over 120 billion euros in debt. The policies of support have unfortunately not been implemented.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0215par0378	Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0214par0379	I'll put you through, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, when you say agriculture, we have a lot to talk about, but our time is short, so I'd like to say: let's keep our plains, keep agricultural areas; let's protect families, strengthen people; or else we'll lose national independence in agriculture. For him, agriculture is the most important sector, it's vital. So we have to guard our plains, our air, our water supply, all the components of agriculture, miserably. I ask for the acceptance of our motion, and I give all of you my regards.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit03spe0216par0383	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0216par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 10th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 221. The commission is in place. There are three motions on the 23rd article, and I will process the motions according to the order of violation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that within a month's time the notice of the Ministry and the State Department, the relevant vocational rooms, the agricultural chambers, the economies, and the establishments of the Law Proposal 221 are changed. Orhan Sarıbal Ayhan Gunitan Cengiz Gökçel Inspired by Özcan Aygun Okan Gaytancıoğlu Müzeyyen Sevkin Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Adana MP Müzeyyen Sevkin wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Sevkin.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0217par0017	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the High Council. I have made a promise on the 23rd article of the proposal. Amendments have been made in Article 5403 of the Law. Under this clause, the audit mission was given only to the Ministry, the governorate or the boards. For an effective and efficient audit, however, there should be a special committee of agricultural rooms, chefs, and agricultural chambers in the region to be audited. In this way, the agricultural facts of the region and the problems of the locals will be evaluated. Dear lawmakers, the farmer, who can't earn what he has produced and whose debt is growing steadily and exponentially, unfortunately is quickly moving away from agricultural production and unfortunately has to migrate from the village to the cities. In 2005, our plantable property, which was 26.6 million hectares, unfortunately, fell by 3.100,000 hectares to 23.5 million hectares. Our farmland is abandoned for various reasons. You know, Çukurova -- particularly Çukurova -- is the third-largest agricultural plain of the world -- including Çukurova, which is the most important agricultural plain of wealth, where the use of these fields is in vain and planning also paves the way for the aimless use of first-class agricultural areas. The basis of the national economy is agriculture. Says the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Dear lawmakers, unfortunately, customs duties for importing wheat, barley and corn have been zeroed in recent days. With a policy that turns into 45 per cent in wheat, 35 per cent in barley, 12 per cent in corn, the private sector that pays 12 per cent in taxes is issued with zero customs while the ship waits at the port, and when the decree is issued, wheat is brought from port with zero customs, it is poured into silos. Unfortunately, those claiming to be domestic and national are transferring this money to foreign countries rather than to Turkish farmers, local and national farmers. It is a coincidence that during the same period, the Red Moon will also grant corn, wheat, and barley to abroad, Syria, and other Middle Eastern countries. Now, the question is, who will buy this barley and wheat from, my friends? This corn, I'd like to ask you here if it's going to be taken from the firms you're allowing to import with cash, zero customs. Dear MPs, yes, I think those who claim to be domestic and national should consider it. About Çukurova Regional Airport, our Adana MP just spoke. I'd like to say again, in the late 2020s, there's been a lot of chaos and chaos at the airport auction. Unfortunately, there are a lot of irregularities and transactions in the substructure tenders. It has to be known that the site of the construction of this airport, which has also resulted in the removal of a minister in the past few months, is first-class farmland, and it would take nearly a thousand years to develop a square centimetre of agricultural land. Unfortunately, the underwater water level is also high. In a geological sense, this ecologically difficult airport needs to be recovered from the damage and needs to be abandoned as soon as possible. Honourable MPs, yes, Şakirpaşa Airport has areas that are suitable for demand; it is available to expand; immediately it must be abandoned from its airport in Yenice. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, members of the Commission, came to us today, the Adana County Report. A report involving the problems of our 15 counties in agriculture. I hope you've been briefed, and if you haven't, I'll pass along a copy. There are very important demands, demands from 15 counties. Influences such as fertilizer, electricity, irrigation, medicine, bait, increased prices are the main problem in the province. The increase in exchange rate, of course, is a factor, but in order for our producers to continue production and sustainability, entry prices must be reduced to reasonable levels. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm just finishing up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0218par0027	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0217par0028	Yeah, they're talking about high electricity prices. 18% VAT must be removed, 2 per cent TRT share must be removed, 1 per cent Energy Fund must be removed, agricultural support must be given before planting, support in cotton, producers in rural areas must be supported. One of the most important problems is marketing. There must be long-term production plans. He is now in Adana, a narc, which unfortunately cannot be sold. Narençi is a dollar in the field, $5 in the market, $8 in the market, $12 in Istanbul. The market must be found. We can't export because we're at odds with all the elements abroad. So the Agricultural Loan Co-operatives need to wipe out the loan debt. You needed bread, friends, you needed bread, and then you started handing out bread on the hook. You import wheat from outside, you depend on bread. It's impossible to accept. You want the poor who have been helped, and we want the poverty that has been eliminated. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you're going to do good in this country, I say stop signing the laws that make this country poor. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0219par0035	The CHP must be against Çukurova Airport. I guess the MPs are gonna have to answer that. The CHP is probably opposed to the construction of Çukurova Airport. We understand him through the speeches. I'll tell the people of Mersin one day tomorrow.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0217par0036	Sir, there's no reason for Çukurova Airport to be built there when it's at Shakirpaşa Airport. You're destroying first-class farmland. Subterranean water levels are high. You're destroying first-class farmland.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0220par0037	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of the Law Proposal No. 221 be changed to the terms of the article 23 in case there is a discrepancy. Ridvan Turan Nusrettin Gamein Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Imam Taşçıer Semra Nice Zuleyha Gül Sepil Kemalbay Pekyözeğü Ayşe Driver Zeynel Özen Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Istanbul MP Zeynel Özen wants to talk about the motion.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0221par0051	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, today we are discussing some of the clauses of the agricultural and animal law. There's a saying. They asked the camel, "Why is your neck crooked?" And the camel said, "Where is my neck right so that my neck is right?" Now, we are in democracy, in law, in human rights, in freedom of expression, as we are in agriculture and animalism. But what we don't understand is that if agriculture hasn't developed in a country, its industry and its industry don't develop, because the materials produced in agriculture are the raw materials of industry and industry, my friends. If agriculture isn't developed, industry isn't. How can agriculture develop? The entries increase 100 per cent, 200 per cent; all fertilizers, diesels, medicines, while everything is rising, base prices are still in place, or 5.10 per cent. In these circumstances, of course, the farmer doesn't plant his field, and our plantations, our agricultural fields, are getting smaller and smaller. Dear lawmakers, you know, on the other hand, farms are opening up, mining, opening up, building HES, and I gave the best example in January. The village of Çımli, Çınarlı and Fitüskıoğlu in the District of Dulkadiroğlu, where I live, has been nationalized for the construction of 3,000 acres of fertile land between the villages of Alevi, and for the construction of efficient land industries that can be bought three products a year. But the administration court broke it with the villagers' resistance and going to court, and the Supreme Court approved this dissolution decision, but unfortunately Turkey now smells of salt; the decisions of the courts don't apply, and now that construction, unfortunately, that project is going on. My dear friends, from the palace, everything looks so pink. I'm asking you not to look at it from the palace, because Marie Antoinette said to the people who protested at the French court two hundred and fifty years ago that if you can't find bread, eat cake. You've seen the President's dialogue with the people in Malatya. We're hungry, we can't bring bread to our house. They say, "He throws a bag of tea and says, "For tea." Hungry people don't drink tea, friends. From the palace, everything looks so pink, but it's not, it's not. On the other hand, you know, a bag of laws came in. The government's taxes, taxes from the public, tax collections of 269 billion. There's been a configuration, there's no room for peasants or farmers in this configuration. It doesn't matter if there's room, because dozens of configuration laws have come to the agenda of the House so far, success -- the top 40 percent -- is in the 10 percent, the 15 percent, because if a citizen has money, he'll pay his debt on time. Even if you do, if he doesn't have the money, he can't pay it, he can't come back. Dear lawmakers, this is what it looks like now, from the palace, but our President says that the world is bigger than the United Nations. Yes, the world is bigger than 5. But it has to be well known: Turkey is bigger than the five companies that exploit the sweats of our people than the five companies that are behind them. Turkey is bigger than those five companies.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0222par0058	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0221par0059	That's why it's important not to make fun of our people's hard work by making fun of these companies and then making fun of the public's minds. The groom says: "What do you do with dollars, do you get paid in dollars? We import wheat, friends, we import meat. What do you buy these with? It's paid for in dollars. Unfortunately, today, minimum wage is down to $300, friends, with the raise of the dollar. This is a fee only seen in third world countries. You have condemned the people to poverty and hunger, and you will answer for it. Thank you. And I salute the council.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0223par0063	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of the Law Proposal on Making Some Arrangements in the Meeting Foods, Agriculture and Forest Area be replaced by the statement taken in Article 23 of Article (1). Zeki Hakan Fahrettin Yoğütü Enez Kaplan Hüseyin Örs Orhan Çakır Aylin Brave Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Mersin MP Zeki Hakan Sıdlı who wants to talk about the motion.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0224par0075	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers exploded when Covid and I increased interest in agriculture and increased demand for private homes, so to speak as hobby gardening. For those of you who can't afford summer homes, more affordable hobby gardens have become an alternative. With intense demand, hobby gardens began to be established in fertile farmland, plains, and fields with three products per year. So hobby gardens are no longer a hobby, they become agricultural gardens and become a threat to agricultural production. However, hobby gardens should not be built on plains, fertile farmland, orchards, and forest areas where trees are cut down, but should be built on urban areas. Hobby gardens should remain a sustainable production area, not a summer home. Its aim has turned into a real estate operation, while hobby gardens, which have become an element of urban rank, have become more marketed by real estate agents than by municipalities. The hobby gardens, covered with sustainable urban agriculture, were replaced by concrete, pool-based hobbits. Hobby gardens were the area where the inhabitants of the city were away from the city's stress, where they worked on the land to satisfy their longing for agriculture, for production, for their own needs, for fruit. As long as that perspective goes on, it's not a hobby garden, nor is the Ranta a subject of hobbies. The only way to stop this negative going is to focus on the philosophy of the business. This proposal is a confession that the laws passed before, even during your reign, cannot be enforced. If the 2005 law had really been enforced, we wouldn't be talking about construction in agricultural areas, industry, tourism, energy, mining investments, hobby gardens. Laws are being passed again to protect agricultural land, penalties brought in, hobby gardens built on fertile farmland are being torn down, trying to prevent division of agricultural land. The sensitivity to hobby gardens should be shown primarily for other facilities, housing. For example, why is a biomass facility on the Plains of Wednesday, one of Turkey's most productive farmlands not spoken of? Why are there attempts to build thermal power plants in the protected plains, such as Alpu Plains, where a nail cannot be struck? Why is there an effort to tear down hobby gardens established on agricultural land, and why is there no effort to remove industrial, housing, energy, mining, infrastructure, at least not after today? The goal of saving productive farmland is not only to tear down hobby gardens, it needs a much more complete perspective. The seriousness of the loss of agricultural land, I'll tell you with remarkable figures in my hometown of Mersin, that the agricultural area of Mersin was reduced from 406,000 hectares to 333,173 hectares between 2008-19, so 72,827 hectares of land have lost its value. That's 18 percent loss when the agricultural field of 2008 was referred to. So Mersin has lost 18 percent of his farmland over the last ten years. That's 101,958 football fields. This loss is a massive loss of capacity for Mersin, impossible to accept. If Mersin continues to lose 72,827 hectares of agricultural land every ten years, there will be not one square meter of farming in the capital of agriculture in the next 45 years. What's remarkable here is that 71 percent of total loss occurred in the last five years. Over the past decade, the percentage of agricultural land in the city's total land was reduced from 25 per cent to 21 per cent, shrinking by 4 per cent. Absorptions increased from 2009 to 2019 to 75,595 hectares. The increase was made up of 7,000 hectares directly from grain agriculture, while 5,000 hectares came from areas that were transformed from forests and nurserys. In the last decade, Mersin has lost 75,5 hectares of land to construction, industry, tourism, energy, mining investments, and unfortunately, hobby gardens. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0225par0081	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0224par0082	While we can't save our most efficient lands from wrong, unplanned investments, concrete cities and the occupation of many other energy companies, today, talking about hobby gardens is the real harm, missing the real loss. Therefore, I invite law enforcers to review the laws we first adopt as Parliaments, not to act as if they are sensitive about protecting agricultural areas, to take it seriously, to be sincere, to be realistic. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0225par0085	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are 4 motions on the 24th article. I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second and third sentences of Article 20 of Law 5403, which has been replaced with Article 24 of Law Proposal 221, be removed from the proposal text. Orhan Sarıbal Ayhan Gunitan Cengiz Gökçel Inspired by Özcan Aygun Okan Gaytancıoğlu Utku Çakırözer Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Eskişehir MP Utku Çakırözer wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Cacharouser.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0226par0100	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our High Council. Today we're talking about agriculture, farmers, rural development; this should be it, this should be it, but when it comes to budgets, when it comes to money, no one remembers the farmer. Two days ago, the bag passed our bill and budget commission, which will be held next week at the General Assembly. There's a configuration of almost everyone's debt, but we don't have the villager we call the master of the millet, our farmer; the boss's tax pardon, insurance pardon, the shop owner's BUG-KUR, the traffic ticket of the car, students' loan pardons, but there's not a single convenience for an Anatolian farmer in debt, there's no amnesty, there's no configuration. You're not paying off the farmer's debt, and you're stopping him from getting paid off. How? It opens the way for imports in agriculture and also during harvest. The Minister of Agriculture had promised the farmer that while I was Minister, the harvest would not be allowed to import it while the harvest was going on. Here comes the customs tax on barley, wheat and corn. In agriculture imports bend the farmer's neck. This is extremely wrong. Instead of Canada, Mexico, Greece, and the farmer of Greece, let us give it to the farmer of our Eskişehir, Kayseri, and Konya. Last week I listened to the beet makers at Mahmudiye, in the Doubles. You know, sugar beets are not only our basic food, but it's an agricultural product that is of particular importance to all of us in the pandemic process. If it weren't for the beets, we wouldn't have found the cologne, the disinfectant, today. Once again, I send greetings to those beet makers who produce both for our table and for our health. This farmer planted, watered, grew, and began the harvest, despite any difficulty. The farmer collects his beets, delivers them to the factory, but doesn't know how much he delivers them from. The beet price that should have been announced months ago is still missing. I speak for our callous beet farmer here: the price for his sweat is at least 390-400 lira per ton, for the price of diesel, fertilizer, irrigation, electricity and dispossession. Every number under that means stealing from our farmer's pocket, our farmer's vaccine. Dear lawmakers, another problem with the farmer, natural disasters. For two years, all kinds of disasters have struck the Eskişehir farmer; the frost has struck, and the hail, and the flood, and the storm, all of them have struck our farmer. There were 53 million lira damage last year; the garden of our farmers in 9 counties was destroyed; the men in Ankara sent only 201 lira per man -- 201 lira, not a joke. This year there was disaster after disaster; in 250 neighborhoods, 15,000 of our farmers' fields, gardens, but they suffered little and much damage; 125 million dollars of disaster damage was reported on the government's own figures. I don't know if they're ashamed or not, but they've set up a small budget. We're looking at this time, and on average, between $500 and $1,000 per man, it's not even a minimum wage; it's been six months, and they haven't given it yet. It's not the first or the last; it's the 18-year fate of the Eskişehir farmer. I'm going to mention a few provinces, and I'm not going to name them: in East Anatolia, you have $7 billion in agricultural support in your power, and I'm going to say that it's nice. In the Mediterranean, we received $15.2 billion; in the Black Sea, he received $9.5 billion; in the Mediterranean, he received $8.8 billion again; in Central Anatolia, 29 billion in agricultural support; and in the Middle East, let him be happy with the farmers there. So, how much has our Central Anatolian wheat warehouse been supported by the 2nd largest beet producer of Turkey, Eskişehir? Only $1.9 billion in 18 years, not even 2 billion, I'm afraid. Here, this is a picture of the neglect, abandonment of the Eskişehir farmer. The seed support package is announced, not to the Eskişehir farmer. Animal breeding districts, production centers are announced; there is no Eskişehir. There is support for the plains of hosts, and there is no support for the plains of Alpu. You tried to plant a poison plant on this fertile plain, let alone support. Today, it has been announced by the Clean Air Rights Platform that 11 million of our citizens in 24 counties will lose their health, 575 football fields will be destroyed, and farmers will be struck again. Once again, I shout from here that Eskişehir and the Eskişehirans will resist this poison project to the fullest. At the end of the week, I was in the town of Dubeler, where our Sakarya River was born, but you see, the farmers who produce in the doubles sent a letter saying that you can't use this river. Here's the article, my dear friends, as I showed you, here's the document.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0227par0106	Pack it up, Mr. Autonomous.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0226par0107	Yes, Mr. President. You can't farm water; you can't plant beets, corn, moonflowers. They say, "We won't give water if you do." Hundreds of farmers from Abbas Halim Pasha, Sait Halim Pasha, Yıldızören, Zaferhamit, Körhanhasan, Comenlı, Eminekin and other villages think of land; despite the threat, they will not be able to take water from the river in front of them, but will not listen and sow. From here, I warn the gentlemen of Ankara: agriculture is not created by leaving the farmer without water, by threatening him. The obvious thing to do is not to scare the farmer with a threat, but to build water channels, dams, ponds, and provide the water he needs. Our esteemed deputies are the best, most nimble, purebred racehorses of Turkey, where Mahmudiyeh is raised. Mahmudije is a place where there are cattle, and there are farms; there are many horses competing there, but we do not have a track. There's a training center on track standards, 2,000 meters of grass, 1,800 meters of sand, but it's not being used. Come on, we want to do a track, but who's listening? And finally... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, may I salute...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0228par0113	I'm not giving an extension for the second time as a principle, and I've never given it to anyone.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0226par0114	Okay, sure, I salute you. My dear friends, not just for our Eskişehir, but for all our farmers. All agricultural and animal support payments must be made during time and within a calendar, and taxes, such as the farmer's agricultural inputs, mazotta, agriculture, electricity and water, and VAT, should be removed. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0229par0118	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the case of violation of plans and projects of regional land use and obligations in Article 24 of the current Law Proposal 221, we propose and propose that punishments and obligations shall be changed in the case of the adversarial land use plan and in violation of their projects. Ridvan Turan Nusrettin Gamein Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Imam Taşçıer Semra Fine Ayşe Driver == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Ağrı MP Diryet Dilan Taşdemir wants to talk about the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0230par0133	Thank you, Mayor. For about two weeks, we have been talking about AKP's policy on agriculture. There's been a lot of talk, criticism, suggestions, but we know, as usual, you're going to read what you know, and you're not going to take these criticisms and suggestions into consideration. But still, we will continue to talk, present our reviews and suggestions. My dear friends, look, in this geography -- I mean from 9,000 years ago -- agriculture is being done. So we're talking about Mesopotamia and Asia Minor, a region called the multitasking crescent, a geography where agriculture was first invented, where barley and wheat were discovered. But in this fertile land, unfortunately, you have made it today in the land of bread people are in need of bread. Thanks to you, we have become poor people of the rich land. Dear friends, I told you once before, I'd like to say it one more time. In no time in history, agriculture has never experienced such a major crisis. So a policy is being followed that puts the interests of the capitalist system ahead of the farmer's interests. Thus, agriculture was brought to an end from this policy. Look, we're not making this determination. The figures of the TÜİK (TİK) also speak of this. According to TÜİKbook, the number of farmers has decreased by 48 per cent over the past 12 years, and the area of vegetable gardens has shrunk by 15 per cent. Again, the number of farmers, 1,17,000 in 2008, has dropped to 600,000 in 2019. Again, according to TÜİK data, the number of people employed in the agricultural sector was 7 million, 458,000 people in 2002, while as of February 2020 the number was reduced to 4,157,000 people. So, as it turns out, farmers can no longer sow, reap, farm. Again, diesel, fertilizer, medicine, seed prices are taking off, and on top of that, there's this huge rise in electric bills, so farmers can't pay these rising electricity bills. What are you doing this time? This time, especially for this benefit, you are blocked, so in a sense, you have become the collector of TEDAS. So you're basically telling people with these policies: "Don't reform, stay away from agriculture." Dear friends, one of the most affected provinces of these policies is Pain. Our city of pain is actually a city of agriculture and livestock, but the wrong policies that have been implemented may be most affecting our city of Pain. Painful farmers are literally crying blood, so when they sell their products at the end of the semester, they can't really afford to pay off their loans, they can't farm their fields. Every year, more than 30,000 people from Pain leave the city and go to great cities. Again, Painful teens, young people who have been cut off from this production, have to work in the construction industry in major cities, metropolitan areas, and every year dozens of young people are killed, lost. Dear friends, again, this pandemic process has also seriously affected our city, and many of the tradesmen have had to close their doors, so that painful tradesmen can't even pay their own loans. There are thousands of tradesmen who can't bring bread home, young people. That's why four young people committed suicide in the last month alone, because of the conditions of this life. So really, go to a Pain, there are long queues in front of İSKUR. For the first time in the history of Pain, long queues form before İSKUR. Look, here, of course, if you have a torpedo, and you can get a job if you get a job, but unfortunately, that's where nepotism comes in; Painful people have trouble finding a job. Dear friends, our city of Pain, in fact, is located in three cities that have arrived at the end in Turkey, in terms of socioeconomic conditions. There are similar problems not only in agriculture and livestock but also in health, education, economics. So the only thing that's happening in our town is the empty promises that AKP gives to the people every semester. So in terms of empty promises in our city, very stablely, these policies are actually being maintained.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0231par0141	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0230par0142	Thank you, Mayor. So, officially, our city has become a city of empty promises. Thus, people are aware of this, and we know that once again they will reveal their attitude, their reaction. But I'll tell you this: let's not get ahead of ourselves, I swear, the only thing you're still doing in Ağrı is attacking our party, the HDP. A very stable policy is being followed. The HDP is officially bringing Kurdish hostility into play with new policies. Last week, in our eastern whiteyıt district in Ağrı, our county building was raided at 5 a.m., look, a political party's party building was busted at 5 a.m., our co-chairs were taken into custody. So your practices towards this political party... really, it's called barbarism now, it's called bullying. We know that the people of Pain will once again show their objection to both this empty promise politics and this barbarism and tyranny politics. Again, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0232par0146	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment to the first article of the Law Proposal on Making Some Editings in the Meeting Foods, Agriculture and Forest Area shall be replaced with a new statement. Fahrettin Yoshüz Enez Kaplan Hüseyin Örs Orhan Çakır Ayhan Altıntaş Aylin Brave Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Ankara MP Ayhan Altıntaş wants to talk about the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0233par0159	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made as a good PARTY Group regarding the 24th amendment of the proposed proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Members of parliament, the 24th article of the proposal increases penalties in case of violation of plans and projects of agricultural use. This is evident as a positive arrangement. However, when we look at the government's record on agriculture since 2002, we see that agricultural sector and agricultural production have been traditionally destroyed in order to undermine such regulations. TÜİK and the data of the SGK have clearly confirmed that farming has been dwindling in our country as a result of the wrong policies of power. The main reason for this is that the farmer's failure to make money is because of the increasing cost of input, by working, by producing. In fact, in 2003, 2 million 765 000 farmers were registered in the Farmer's Recording System, and the number fell to 2,33,000. So 622,000 farmers had to quit farming. Because of the wrong agricultural policies of the EC PARTY, one of the four farmers withdrew from production. While our farmers are withdrawing from production, the number of our citizens employed in agricultural sectors has also decreased rapidly. According to TÜİK data, the number of people employed in agriculture dropped to 7 million 458 thousand in 2002, while 4 million 157,000 in February 2020. In the past 18 years, the data suggests that 3 million 301,000 agricultural workers have lost their jobs and the number of people employed in the agricultural sector has decreased by 44 per cent. Thus, in the past, self-sustaining Turkey has been dependent on agriculture in the period of the EC PARTI and has supported the import policies imposed on foreign countries to enrich their farmers. Look, for example, customs taxes for grain imports have been reset to January 1st. Customs with 45 per cent in wheat imports, 35 per cent in barley and 25 per cent in corn will be zero by 2021. Wouldn't it make more sense to support the farmer than to reset customs taxes? Our farmer would've won and we'd've looked to the future with more hope. Not only in grain, but also in cotton comes an import-based economy. In our country, the production of silk cotton dropped 40 percent last year, and the imports of cotton were 760,000 tonnes in the 2018-2019 season, and nearly 1 million tonnes in the 2019-2020 season. With these policies, the farmers of foreign countries are supported, while our farmer has become poor and has withdrawn from agricultural production. Look, Mr. President, we went to Yozgat and Kayseri, where we met with our farmers and livestock. Our farmers say they work for nothing. Unforeseeable increases in the costs of inputs such as seeds, diesel, fertilizer, fertilizer, animal food, have made the farmer weary, and they can't even enjoy their tea anymore. This painting is one of the clearest pictures of the wrong agricultural policies of the AK PARTY, which bore the farmer to death. Precious lawmakers have also reduced agricultural land with policies that bring power to the end of agriculture in Turkey and bankrupting our producer. According to TÜİK data, the plantations, which were 26 million, 579 thousand hectares in 2002, were reduced to 23 million 94 thousand hectares in 2018. This number of lost land is equivalent to the face measurement of the Netherlands, which has five times more agricultural export revenues than Turkey's agricultural export revenues. Dear lawmakers, as you know, the pandemic process has once again demonstrated the importance of agricultural production and self-sustainability. Those of us who are aware of this fact will not only create a self-contained Turkey in the power of the GOOD PARTY, but we will increase our agricultural exports and bring Turkey to its rightful place in agriculture. So we're going to enrich both our country and our manufacturer. As our president-in-chief, Mr. Coral Akşener, stated, Turkey has a very high potential for agriculture.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0234par0168	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0233par0169	This potential can only be implemented with the right analysis, proper planning, and a comprehensive strategy. As I stop speaking with these feelings and thoughts, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0234par0172	Now, I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the third sentence of Article 20 of Law 5403, which has been replaced with Article 24 of Law Proposal 221, shall be changed in the following way. The Treasury and Finance Bank is transferred to the Ministry's Central Accounting Office by 2/7/2008 of the municipality or municipality's private administration by 2/7/2008 and to the general budget tax revenues of 5779 and municipalities by the end of the month, according to its interest if it cannot be collected in this way. Özlem Rich Ramadan Can Tamer Mountain Fehmi Albay Özalan İsmail Kaya Salim İkintcioğlu Mujahit Durmişoğlu Metin Gündoğdu Abdullah Güler Does the commission agree with the motion? We're putting it to good use, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason for the motion: The motion aims to determine the process of collecting over 100 per cent of the cost of destruction from the municipality or the province's private administration and to save the amount collected into the general budget as part of the third joke of Article 5403. Now, I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 24th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are four motions on the 25th article. I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second and third sentences of Article 21 of Law 5403, which has been replaced with Article 25 of Law Proposal 221, be removed from the proposal text. Orhan Sarıbal Ayhan Gunitan Cengiz Gökçel Inspired by Özcan Aygun Okan Gaytancıoğlu Ali Keven Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. It's Yozgat MP Ali Keven who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Keven.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0235par0203	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 25th Amendment of the Law Proposal on Making Some Editings in Food, Agriculture and Forestry. I respectfully salute the General Assembly. A variety of arrangements in agriculture and the forest area are unfortunately far from the solution of problems. You're listening to our criticisms and proposals for solutions on agricultural problems, such as your import policy in agriculture, wheat production, beet production, and agricultural data. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, our Yozgat, are an agricultural city. Our farmers from Yozgat have come to greet you, saying, "We are the first in green lentils, we are the second in sugar beets, and we are among the first six cities in the production of wheat, but we are not satisfied with our lives." Because the price of diesel and fertilizer increases by ladling, while the price of wheat and barley increases by spoon, and the price of chickpeas and lentils is wavy. The item sold for $5 last year can be sold for $3 a year later. Certified seed support, planting season, unpaid. Sugar beets producers rip the beets off, deliver them to the factory, but there's no telling how much they're going to charge. The sugar beets base price ends in October, it's unclear. Why don't you explain the beet price you announced on September 1st last year? I wonder, are you going to explain the price of beets when they're sugar? Mr. President, the AKP's government, which imports 68 million tons of wheat in 18 years, has deprived the farmers of other countries while pooring our farmer. During this period, you paid 104 billion dollars for importing agricultural products in 18 years, reset customs duties to import barley and wheat, reset everything, but you didn't reset the farmer's debt. I think so, and if you go like this, the Turkish farmer will reset you in the chest. Do you know that farmers now owe $120 billion to banks? It's urgent that this loan be postponed and without interest. The configuration package has to be included in the farmers, including agricultural loans in the configuration, and it has to be expunged. Mr. President, dear MPs, our producers of livestock at Yozgat. The manufacturer is concerned about increased input costs, the increase of dollars; he cannot look to the future with confidence. Costs increased, nutritional, and dairy animals became inextricable for them. Now the heifers, the cows, unfortunately, are being sent to the slaughter because the bait price has gone up 35-40 percent, but the price of milk is not going up. The Bank of Agriculture in Yozgat offers a huge amount of trouble to give an animal loan to the manufacturer who comes to its door. They're trying to reduce the capacity of the manufacturer's stockpile. What's this manufacturer gonna do? You want it to fall into the hands of a loan shark? Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers, our Yozgat tradesman, salutes to you; he can't afford to pay for the Covid epidemic, he can't pay for the debt, he can't bring the bread home. The serviceman's shop has turned off the ignition since March, and he can't do business, so let's take care of their auto exam fees as a government. Let's give the coffee shop a little income support. Let's get public institutions to supply supplies from the stationery in that district for the stationery people. Again, let's pay rent to our other tradesman. These suggestions will give us a bit of a relief in the first place, but Mr. President Malatya says you're exaggerating, that's an exaggeration. It doesn't solve the problems of the tradesman, it doesn't. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, our tradesman, are awaiting immediate release of his pardon. I'm asking what the new loan-free tradesman will do, even if you explain it to the entire tradesman. From March, when the outbreak began, BUG-KUR's bonus debts were not paid. Starting in March, BUG-KUR bonus debts must be erased. The payment of the $25,000 loan, which was used by the tradesmen's Bail Co-ops, was delayed for three months, and now his payday has arrived. I wonder what you're going to take, what you're going to take, what you're going to take. Since college students in Yozgat are not in town right now, they have lost thousands of tradesmen's incomes. Those merchants must be paid with a grant support programme, such as the premium debt, rent, blockage, bill, and tax payment. The debt found at the People's Bank alone must be restructured and postponed for a year. If you don't save money for the famous five contractor group, there's plenty of resources. There's a lot of resources if you give these contractors the number of passengers and vehicles guaranteed a little more compassionate and conscientious. In 18 years, you've paid London loan sharks, Galata bankers, interest interest, $1 trillion, not loan sharks, tradesmen, farmers, laborers, a lot of resources.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0236par0213	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0235par0214	You ruled this country alone for 18 years. The country's point is that the poor are now gathering food in rich neighborhoods, and you can brag about it, and I'm ashamed of it. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0236par0217	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Mr. White, please.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0237par0221	Thank you, Mr. President. Our health care workers' annual leave, resignation, has been restricted to some basic rights issued by the Ministry of Health today. With the increasing number of cases for our already hard-working medics, the conditions are getting worse. Thank God, our health workers have done their part in the pandemic process. Health workers have sacrificed their health, their families, their social lives. So, what did our government do for health workers? No additional payments, no performances, no solutions to violence for the paramedics, no new appointments for understaffed personnel, restitution. Let's solve the problems of the people's heroes in this difficult time as representatives of the nation and make our health workers smile.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0236par0227	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal No. 221 is available in Article 25/1 and we demand and propose that punishments and obligations regarding non-obligation of land protection projects be used against the purpose of their land protection projects, and that punishments and obligations be changed as subservient to land protection projects. Semra Nice Ridvan Turan Nusrettin Game Imam Taşçıer Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Ayşe Driver Serbil Kemal Pekbağü Ömer Faruk Gergerlioğlu Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. It's Omer Faruk Gergerlioğlu who wants to talk about the motion.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0238par0240	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this bill is at risk of obstructing legitimate, conscientious, scientific publications. Why? ▪ It is said that scientific publications will be prevented, pre-emptived, and even punished. How? Here's an example: Bulent Şık took part in a joint study between the Ministry of Health and the Mediterranean University, which took part in the study between 2011 and 1515. The risk of developing cancer of carcinogenic substances has been investigated, compared with industrial areas and tourism areas. Where are they? Tekirdağ, Edirne, Cırklareli, Alexei and Antalya have been investigated. It was predicted that the pesticides would be high in industrial areas, yes, it was high, but it was also high in Antalya Kumluca, and the pesticides were very high, and there was great danger. In a region with at least 1,300,000 children, the risk of cancer was enormous, but do you know what the Ministry of Health did? In 2015, he did not disclose the results of this work, and he said, "Wait, wait, wait, wait, we will explain it in 2017." He was squirming. 2019 came in, again unexplainable, and Brent Şık wrote an article that hid the products that gave Turkey cancer, and we explained it! In his article, he explained the very important facts. He was telling the truth, he was telling me about the research, and then what happened? He was sentenced to trial; he was sentenced by the Ministry of Health for a year and three months; he received a year and a year and three months for the fact that scientific research revealed secrets, not because he lied. But look, the danger was too great. One of the three deaths in Dilova is because of cancer; one of the five deaths in Tekirdağ, Edirne, and Cırklareli are because of cancer. There's a great risk, and the risk is increasing, but it didn't matter. Why did you tell the truth? They punished me. Here comes such a cruel, unconscionable substance. The AK PARTY government, unfortunately, has a lot of unconscionable jobs, and despite all of that, it still has a very high sense of self-religion, morality, and it's very sad. Last week, the EC PARTY MPs were in a race at the General Assembly, with Aliya Izetbegovic in a condolences race. In fact, there was no risk that they couldn't win that race, that they deserved to offer Aliya their condolences, because I don't think they deserved it, because Aliya was a very moral person, when her enemies killed women and children. No, we can't look like enemies, we can't kill women and children.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0239par0242	You're lying, you're lying!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0240par0243	You're lying.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0241par0244	What's a lie? What's a lie?
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0242par0245	Look, what does Aliya Izetbegovic say in her memories? It's about subjects and their followers.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0243par0246	You cannot speak Aliya's name.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0241par0247	People die in prison, what's the big deal?
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0242par0248	You don't know Aliya.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0243par0249	You can't say his name!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0242par0250	Have you read Islam between the East and West?
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0244par0251	Aliya Kim, who the hell are you?
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0242par0252	I have read and read all your works, and I know very well that Aliya had first revealed your understanding of religious abuse, and that Aliya had criticised it. Look, look at you from Islam between East and West... you haven't read it, listen for a moment.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0244par0253	Let's hear it.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0242par0254	He told of those who obeyed and those who opposed him.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0245par0255	He wasn't a liar like you!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0242par0256	He says: "These are people with a sense of obedience -- they speak of you -- and they love to be subject, to be praised by their superiors, to be in their favor. There's an unhappy group of people on the other side -- they mean the clients, the objectors -- they always want something new, instead of bread, they talk more about freedom, instead of profit; they talk more about human beings; they don't accept that they owe their livelihood to the manager, but they claim that they feed the manager themselves. They don't like power, and power doesn't like them. Those who obey worship men, authority, idols, and those who are free worship one God. I say to you, "Make a decision which of these two groups do you belong to, and whether you deserve to be forgiven."
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0245par0257	Look at you, look in the mirror! You look in the mirror!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0242par0258	Look, then your work is abuse, you abuse religion, you abuse Yasin Bör. Your life is about religion and abuse of Yasin Bör...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0245par0260	Aliya wasn't a hypocrite like you, she was sincere!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0246par0261	Look at you and look at PKK, look at you!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0247par0262	Mr. Congressman, wait a minute, Mr. Congressman, address the General Assembly, which means you're forced to...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0248par0263	Now look, about Yasin Börür...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0246par0264	Look at the PKK, look at you!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0247par0265	Just a minute, Congressman...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0248par0266	AK PARTY has a significant abuse. I'm going to give you a very important example: Look, in 2015 -- I wasn't a politician at the time -- I was working as a writer on the T24 website, I went to Diyarbakir in the T24 study, I talked to Sheikhmus Tanrıkulu, and I said, what is this Yasin Bör thing, tell me. You know what he said? Look, Yasin said Börür was abused by the AK PARTY, and I'm reading the exact same sentences... (AK PARTY) He highlighted the fact that the government was not sincere in the murder of Yasin Bör, that it was abused, that the Presidents had said so before. Erdogan said the name of Yasin Börü, only fifteen days after the events.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0249par0267	You're a liar!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0248par0268	He complained that he didn't even mention the name of HEDA PARK in the events of October 6th or 8th. The murder of Yasin Bör was a blood-cold murder...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0250par0270	We've joined all your cases, all of you!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0248par0271	"Berkin Elvan, Hajji Birlik and Yasin Börür are not to be made a double standard, all should be saved from abuse."
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0251par0272	Well, thank you, Congressman.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0248par0273	Look, Par Mayor Sheikhmus Godkulu says that, but you don't know anything about it. Your work is abuse, you abuse everything, religion and Yasin Börür.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0252par0275	Ask the PKK!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0251par0276	Mr. Özkan, please.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0253par0279	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Republic of Turkey, are a democratic state of law...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0254par0282	That's what the Constitution says.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0253par0283	...with independent judgment and...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0255par0284	He has a very independent judgment.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0253par0286	...there are individual applications and mechanisms for the European Court of Human Rights after the internal legal routes have been exhausted.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0256par0288	Even crows laugh at those things, even crows!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0255par0289	Oh, can't you see the truth?
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0253par0290	Now, on the one hand, we ignore the abuse of the terrorist organization to the children they kidnapped in Kandil, North Syria.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0257par0291	Don't you have any other answers?
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0253par0292	...and the support the terrorist organization has given to international imperialist environments...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0258par0293	You're the power!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0253par0294	...you can't surrender to their will to be their puppet in Turkey and teach them a lesson in law and justice here.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0258par0296	Answer me, answer me!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0253par0297	Whether you explode or abuse religion, even if you submit to the oligarchs who push you into this way around here, they will be silent; Turkey, as a democratic law state, will meet the requirements of law.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0259par0299	You answer what you're told, what you're told!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0260par0300	Don't speak of Aliya with this unconscionableness!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0253par0301	You'll see, today, in our region, terrorist organizations that betray the lives of Kurds, Arabs, Turks in peace, and the political extensions that remain silent to them are bound to answer to our nation's history and time as well. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0261par0304	You memorized it, you memorized it!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0262par0305	Pay for the people you threw out of the helicopter!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0263par0309	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. [[The motion has been read by Clerk Member Giresun MP Necati Tığlı]] ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The Law Proposal for Making Some Arrangements in the Meeting Foods, Agriculture and Forest Area...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0264par0314	The PKK is a victim of Kurds!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0265par0315	You're memorizing.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0266par0316	The PKK threw him out of the helicopter? Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0264par0317	Shame on those who can't say a word about terrorism!
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0265par0318	Have a little conscience! [[The motion continued to be read by Clerk Member Giresun MP Necati Tığlı]] In the first joke of Article 25 of Article 25, I propose and propose that the amendment be replaced with a reordered statement. Fahrettin Yoshüz Enez Kaplan Hüseyin Örs
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0267par0325	Dear MPs, the Deputy Directors of the Group have given the necessary answer, there's no point in talking...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0268par0326	President, they're throwing.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0267par0327	There's no point in making small talk. If anyone's talking too much, I promise you, let him come over here and talk. Most of them don't have anything to talk about.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0269par0328	They're sitting very well, Mayor.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0267par0329	Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. He wants to talk about the motion. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Here you go, Mr. Anres.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0270par0334	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI Group on the 25th amendment of the law proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the 25th article of the proposal includes penalties and obligations concerning the use of agricultural land outside its purpose and the failure to comply with territorial protection projects. It is also considered to be the reason for the destruction of structures, which are commonly referred to as "the hobi garden." Unfortunately, the use of agricultural land outside of agriculture has been a result of years of government condoning it. This includes the constructions of the citizen to support agricultural and animal activities or to build as the custom of the hobby garden. And let's not forget that these structures are a national asset. Besides, as this proposal clause predicts, once these structures are destroyed, it will not always be possible for the land to be able to be farmed again as it used to be. So, we think it's more appropriate that this proposal is not applied to structures that were completed before the law's proposal went into effect. We also believe that it would be a good step towards the peace of the state with citizens who deal with this clause. Dear MPs, in this part of my speech, I would like to present to the General Assembly the environmental problems of our Sera Lake, located in Akçaabat district of Tripoli, Akçaabat district. The Sera Lake, a large landslide that occurred on 21 February 1950, fell nearly a mile [4 km] long during its first formation. Sera Creek, which was found in the Valley of Derecik, because of the flood in the province of Tripoli in 1990, was filled with vast amounts of aluvion and garbage. The exit part of the lake exploded, unable to withstand the filling pressure, and the lake's depth was as low as five metres. After 1990, Sera Lake tried to get back to its normal flora and fauna, but it was not prevented from filling and polluting the lake. Sera Lake was declared a third-degree site in 2005 and a nature park in 2010. Dear lawmakers, there has been significant contamination in the lake, especially in the last ten years. In order to prevent pollution, the relevant ministries have done some work to reform the lake, but it will not be enough that pollution remains. Reconstructions were limited to the emptying of alluvyon at the entrance of the lake. However, the reason for the pollution of the lake is expressed not by the condensed aluvion, but also by scientists, whose waste in the settlements of the Valley of Derecik, was caused by direct access to the lake. Some of these substances, which are caused by nitrate, phosphate, and nitrogen, are dissolved in water, while some of them are accumulated directly into the lake, resulting in an extraordinary source of nutrients for algae, which naturally live in the lake and have the most important sources of food for phosphorus and nitrogen. Because the lake's depth is dwindling and contains abundant amounts of food, especially in sunny seasons, algae that are naturally alive produce abundant nutrients by photosynthesis, creating a layer on the surface of the lake. This highly formed layer of moss consumes the oxygen of the lake and prevents the sun's rays from entering the lower layers of the lake, as well as other fluorescent elements. That is the main reason for the pollution that is happening today at Sera Lake. The continuation of the current situation will result in a much heavier pollution in the coming years. As a lake without oxygen, it will eventually become a lake where only anaerobic bacteria live and turn into a swamp. Let the necessary measures be taken at once, and let not our Sera Lake be a swamp, and I salute the General Assembly with my deepest respect.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0271par0342	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the third sentence of Law Article No. 5403, which has been replaced with Article 25 of Law Proposal 221, be changed to the following sentence, and the following joke be added to the article after its fourth joke. "If it cannot be collected this way, the Ministry of Treasury and Finance or Provinces Bank will be cut off from the shares of the municipal or municipal private administration issued under Law 5779 and transferred to the Ministry's central accounting unit by the end of the month to save income in the general budget." "For those who establish the land's land, creating non-profitable operational stocks, which are considered a share of the land, they will be fined from a year to three years to a hundred days in prison and from a thousand days in prison, for which they have established a membership or partnership with a private legal person as part of the work of a private legal person, or by intercession or by intercesssion with these jobs. It is also punishable by administrative fines from 50,000 Turkish liras to 250,000 Turkish liras. In the event of the integrity of the agricultural land and it becomes fit for agricultural production, the public case will not be filed under this joke, the public case which has been filed will be dropped, and the sentence sentenced will be eliminated with all its consequences. Cahit Özkan Ramadan Can Borrow Atilla Ismail Tamer Yusuf Başer Ceyda Uninterrupted Çankırı Does the commission agree with the motion? We're putting it to proper consideration, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason for the motion: The allocation of agricultural land through private legal persons, particularly co-operatives, by the use of members or partners, through actual division, has been a common violation of the law in the development of the Law on Land Protection and Land Use 5403. There have been complaints about this injustice, especially in the official or unofficial organisation of brokers such as real estate consultants. The motion is to make changes to prevent division of agricultural land, which is the main objective of Law 5403. In this scope, according to the laws written in the law, it is a crime to divide the property into operational shares in which there is no way to determine whether or not the property should be used outside the scope of the operation of a private legal person, by the establishment of a membership or partnership of the entity or by means of intercession of the land. In order to ensure an effective criminal struggle, perpetrators or perpetrators will be sentenced to prison and criminal fines, as well as administrative fines for the legal person. In the final sentence of the joke, it is possible that the public case will not be opened, the public case will be dropped in order to encourage the integrity of the agricultural land and to be fit for agricultural production, and the sentence of the condemned will be eliminated with all consequences. It is also intended to determine the method of collecting over 100 per cent of the cost of destruction from the municipality or the municipality's private administration as part of the third joke of Law Article 5403, and to save income in the general budget. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit to your votes the 25th article: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions on the 26th article, and I will process them according to the order of violations. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of the Law Proposal No. 221 is changed as a subsection in Article 26 of the Law Proposal. Orhan Sarıbal Ayhan Gunitan Cengiz Gökçel Inspired by Özcan Aygun Okan Gaytancıoğlu Fikret Şahin Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Balıkesir MP Fikret Şahin wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0272par0375	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. We're negotiating the agricultural law. In agricultural production, our country is one of the seven self-contained countries in the world, and there's not a single agricultural product left that we don't import at the moment. We import many agricultural products from olive oil to cheese, from straw to meat. The number of agricultural productions and farmers is shrinking day by day, I'm afraid. First of all, we don't plan agricultural production. What product, where, how much will be produced in our country, how much will be consumed in the domestic market, how much will we import, no one knows. In agricultural production, world markets are not followed and directed for farming. The farmer is unclaimed, unaware of what to do. Balıkesir is one of the major cities of our country in agriculture and livestock, and we call our own province the province that feeds Turkey. Veggie producers have been doing damage in Kepsut for years, in Borders, in Bigadic, in Ivrindi. Tomatoes were 30 cents this year. In an account with Mehmet Emin, our head of the Kepsut Agriculture Room, he spends at least $2.450 for an acre of tomatoes, and at the best price, he gets $1.750 for selling an acre of tomatoes, and every farmer costs at least 700 lira for a acre of tomatoes, and what does he do with it? Look, as you can see here, this is how he feeds the tomato to his goats. Again, our veterinary friend, Veterinary Doctor Serkan Sak; he is also an agricultural manufacturer; he grows peppers. This year, peppers are 45 cents, as you can see here, and peppers are also placed in front of cows as animal food. This is happening in our province. Again, bigadic, the food producer, Mustafa Erat, last year, when the feed was 75 liras, I was giving my animal to a cut of 42 lira. This year, I'm giving the feed 110 lira, $35 for the cut, and I'm losing it. He complains that the grain has become 90 cents a pound. Yes, the straw is 90 cents. Look, it's an example, and this is where the AKP brought agriculture: the hay is 90 cents, the tomato is 30 cents, the pepper is 45 cents. You take three kilos of tomatoes with a kilo of hay or two kilos of peppers. I apologize: we're at a point where animal oaths are worth more than human food, and that's where agriculture comes from. Look, it's pure: you get two pounds of pepper or three kilos of tomatoes with 1 kilo of hay. Again, the milkmaker, a goatherd at the Landlights, a local friend of ours, Taner Light, produces milk with his own handwork, his own sweat, and makes perhaps the most beautiful goat cheeses in the world. So, what's the current government doing? Sir, with a decree, you allow 1,500 tons of cheese to be imported from Venezuela. On one hand, the government allows the import of cheese, and on the other hand, yes, the City of Cheese 50 is printing books like this. Look, I want to show you the contradiction here. Again, olives and olive oil producers are also troubled. Mehmet Semerci, the olive producer at Edremit, says that wealth increases every year, but we sell our product for the same price. Last year, a sack of fertilizer used for olives was $82, so this year the fertilizer price increased by 140 lira, 70 percent, but last year we sold the cooking oil for 18 to 20 liras, and this year we're selling it for the same price. Moreover, for the past two years, the air struggle with the olive fly, the fight against medicine, unfortunately, is not being done, and the quality of the product is getting lower and lower. Once again, an olive producer from Havran, Hilmi Okur, says: "Mr. Deputy, the rains have rained on time, the olives have held the grain, God is with us, but the AKP is not with us. " During the olive harvest, olives and olive oil imports are allowed, and chicken products cause damage to the local manufacturer, which has been unstoppable for years. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm almost done, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0273par0385	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0272par0386	Again in Susurluk, our sugar beets maker has strayed from production due to the rumors of quotas and closing the Susurity Sugar Factory for many years, and we have to bring beets from other provinces to run the factory. Years ago, however, there was sufficient beet production, and the point is that the wrong agricultural policies were followed. In fact, recently, in agricultural production, Balıkesir was not part of the grant seed support. However, the Farm Bank, which lends support for the breeding cattle, also excluded Balıkesir. Another producer from Susurluk Göbel, our uncle Ahmet Yakut, says: "Let us be supported; let us feed Turkey, and we will even feed the world. " Yes, I wish this law to our country and our manufacturer with the best of luck. I salute you all, thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0274par0392	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Half of the terms of Law Proposal No. 221 are applied in Article 26 of the Law Proposal, and we propose that 50 per cent of the terms of the declaration be changed as subsistence. Ridvan Turan Sepil Kemalbay Pek Göpegü Nusrettin Gamein Mahmoud Celadet Gaydalı İmam Taşçıer Semra Nice Ayşe Çiz Çiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Ankara MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0275par0407	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have caused the world to think more about the Covid-19 epidemic, the health and accessible food issue. The number of people fighting hunger before Covid-19 has exceeded 820 million, while the epidemic has increased by 12 to 14 per cent. So we're seeing how vital food is, even if we're just looking at short-term national interests. But food, far beyond personal or national interests, is not only the producers, but it is at the center of the ecological balance that affects all living and lifeless beings. Chemicals that threaten our health and biodiversity, genetically modified seeds, and industrial agriculture based on machinery are causing the soil to quickly desertize, increase in health problems, decrease in biodiversity. With more profit concerns, all kinds of methods are implemented to get the most products out of the unit area, ecological principles are ignored, product diversity diminishes, products are reduced. Unfortunately, in our country, despite all agricultural wealth, this dangerous transformation is very clear. So, what's this all about, what's it all about? Like farmers getting rich? We're closing the gap by importing high-income products? On the contrary, agricultural imports are increasing day by day, while rural prosperity is falling. The farmer's total debt exceeds 160 billion. The tractor, electricity, irrigation, diesel and rent add to the cost of chemicals and seeds that are made dependent on farmers. And when the farmer can't handle the debt, the family business is being wiped out and replaced by company agriculture. Food is getting expensive every day, the price of lentils has increased by 49 per cent last year, and the beans by 36 per cent, my friends. We've seen in the budget today that the budget for millions of agricultural producers from 2021 is only 31 billion dollars, and when we look at it, the interest the state only pays for a group of investors is $179.5.5 billion. Yeah, with all our agricultural wealth, there's no goods that haven't been imported. By nullifying customs taxes, we import wheat from Greece, even Canada. From Chile the Walnut, from North America; from Egypt the potato and the onions, counting. The situation of farmland and forest lands is very painful, and Turkey is rapidly deserting. Despite this, farmland continues to shrink, forest lands are clearly being looted. Wasn't the Kaz Mountains looted for gold mines? Wasn't an airport that was never needed and the third bridge built for the runt at the cost of destroying the North Forests? Isn't it in the basement, in the summer resorts of Mughla, that every year the forests are burned down and then built? There are ultra luxury hotels planted in Pigeon Bay, and there are hundreds more. Didn't you bring the law to the House to break the olive groves? And yet, with all this looting being done by the government itself, does this offer of the law punish those who did all this? I don't think so. Or are there thousands of lira fines for those who have built a small structure on the farmland and reward for those who have slaughtered the forests? Dear friends, of course, those who get a runt from the farmland, who use the land illegally, must be prevented, but it must be part of a real policy to protect the land, the land, the forests. If those who plundered the Kaz Mountains were punished for making billions, and they built a cabin for their grandmother's land, they would not forgive it. Our primary mission today is to stop the destruction of the ecological balance, give up industrial agricultural production, promote ecological peasant agriculture, and save the farmer from debt. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0276par0415	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0275par0416	And to do that, I say, instead of the laws prepared without asking the likes of them, the House should create a new agricultural programme and a new agricultural policy with everyone who produces food and needs food, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0276par0418	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0277par0419	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0276par0420	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0277par0421	Sir, we see that there's a majority in the AK PARTY, but we can't see that majority in the shield fingers, Mr. President. We'd like to see fingers in the motions of rejection.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0276par0422	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0278par0423	Guys, let's take a vote.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0276par0424	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the first amendment of the Law Proposal on Making Some Arrangements in the Meeting Foods, Agriculture and the Forest Area be replaced with the notice of the first article of Article 26 of the Law. Fahrettin Yoshüz Enez Kaplan Bedri Yaşar Hüseyin Örs Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Orhan Çakır Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Samsun MP Bedri Yaşar wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Yasar.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0279par0436	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. The 26th article of the proposal organises fines and obligations that will be imposed if the land protection project is ignored. Dear friends, we all know that there have been many constructions, especially in the name of the "hobi garden," in the name of this one, call it the cottage, call it the summer house, and we all see that they have become villas, especially in the Aegean. You get it done first, you let it be done, and then you try to get ahead of it with the laws you passed, and you try to legitimize it with the zoning peace. We took out the zoning peace, and everyone took their money, and laid down their money, and you collected money without looking at any of it, whether it was a vineyard or earthquake-proof. Now, when you collect these coins, you say, "Come on, tear it down." The truth is, none of this is ever done. We're warning you from here again today, step in while you're still at the source and prevent any of this from happening. We all know that it takes about four or five hundred years for an inch of soil to grow, so that's how agriculture is to be slaughtered, and none of us should allow it for future generations. We say the agricultural sector is as strategic as the defence industry and should be protected. Today, when we are fighting here, especially in Samsun, for example, to build a biomass plant on the Plains of Wednesday, let's not build it. While we are fighting here, smoke has begun to come out of the chimney of the plant, production has started; experts will still come, and they will try to decide whether it is right or wrong. So unfortunately, in Turkey, the long-term trial of the judiciary will result in these buildings being done, and while you're dealing with the courts, there will be light-balled buildings in the middle of the land, none of you will have any doubt. We say that especially the Samsun region, Turkey, meets about 20 per cent of the produce of fruits and vegetables. We have Samsun MPs here, all of them know; Samsun is the first in the production of red beets, cabbage, fish; Turkey's second in the production of radishes, nuts; Turkey's third in the production of leeks, musmula; Turkey's fifth in the production of uncut tobacco and berries. We say that we personally oppose the establishment of power plants or the establishment of chemical plants such as this, the construction of industrial facilities, the construction of housing land, but despite a lot of laws, unfortunately, we can't get past them. And every day, of course, we're running low on arable spaces. Unfortunately, agriculture continues to return in Turkey, as long as our farmer is unable to repay what he has planted and what he has reaped. You're saying that our regional export is 18 billion. According to the size of Turkey, it's not even a big deal; it's not a big deal. We export agriculture to 180 countries around the world. You say that, but today we watch imports from countries whose name we have never heard of. So, today, when we buy wheat for $1,650, we see that we import wheat from outside for $2,200. Here, sunflower season, we continue importing at different prices from abroad. It is impossible for an import-based agriculture to live anywhere in the world. I believe Turkey will return to its glorious, famous days when you reduce agricultural inputs, agricultural inputs. No one can doubt that. It's about the configuration of debt, you know, the Plan and Budget again, and the SGK, the tax debt is being structured, but the farmer's debt is not in any way consolidated. As long as we don't take care of our farmer, it's not going well, and as long as we keep this import going, our farmers are going to give up. Again, in addition to that -- as the process is over -- I'd like to bring up another issue -- especially one of our well-nouncing Mayor Sener Toköz and our Central District Chairman Hakan War Bey, they did a study at Uğur. In 1990, in addition to Article 442, the government sold certain parcels to places in the villages that did not have a house in the village, haylofts, stables, or villages.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0280par0446	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0279par0447	He said: "You must pay for these parcels and build your houses within five years. This, of course, is a law that came out in 1990, and the condition of the peasant today is clear. These investments, they haven't been made. Some of them paid for it, couldn't build their house; some of them didn't pay for it, but during the time that passed, certain leniency was shown, and this practice continued. Unfortunately, in the period of your rule, in 2017, you said to Law 442, with the interim 5th article added with Law 7061, that if you don't pay for them by 2020, if you don't do the buildings, they will automatically go to the state, state land. Come on, let's extend this for five more years, not the end of 2020, and at least in five years...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0280par0450	I didn't promise anyone, I couldn't spare you, but I didn't give it to anyone.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0279par0451	Thank you, Mr. President. This does not concern the Servant alone, so it is the problem of everyone in Turkey. I hope that you will support the extension of this for another five years, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0280par0454	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the matter is accepted. There are two motions on the 27th article, which I shall take according to the order of conflict. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 27 of Law Proposal 221 in the following way. ADDDE 27-18/4/2006 and the first sentence of Article 19 of Agriculture Law 5488 (e) to the first sentence of the first sentence (e) to come after the declaration of the declaration, the development of modern irrigation systems has been added, (g) changed as follows. The payment of agricultural support to manufacturers is based on the farmer's registration system as well as on the Agricultural Production Recording System. Orhan Sarıbal Ayhan Gunitan Cengiz Gökçel Inspired by Özcan Aygun Okan Gaytancıoğlu Süleyman Bulbül Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. This is Aydın MP Süleyman Bulbül who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0281par0471	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Mr. Minister of Agriculture made a statement in the Commission last year in the 2020 budget talks: "We will not import the harvest season product, but we promise this. We will see and see in the coming days if the AK PARTI ministers keep their promises. Under the presidential decree issued on October 21st, customs tax on wheat, barley, corn is reset, and by the end of the year there are no import limits, the amount is undetermined and the corn is given zero customs. Here we go, fellas. It's not just agriculture, it's the AK PARTY governments that have worked with the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry for 18 years; the farmer's condition is clear, the manufacturer's condition is clear, the citizen's condition is clear. See, friends, production is made with land; production is made with soil, but if you have soil, it happens. AK PARTY governments can be planted in time, friends, 4 million hectares down, 4 million hectares. Besides, what's animalism? Merayla will do. You can go and import its ton at $400 last year, now import it from Bulgaria at $900. But what did you do? The mera area in Turkey was 14 million, 616, 686 hectares in 2002, and the number fell to 11 million hectares, and the area of 3 million hectares was destroyed. What happened in the Aegean region from 2001 to today? No more 66 percent mera, no more livestock. Dear friends, right now the Department of Agriculture is running an import lobby. Two fellow lawmakers from AK PARTY -- I don't want to mention their names -- have made statements in recent months that we can't save the Italian lobby from the Ministry. One's a Conium MP, one's an Aydın MP. Well, friends, if an import lobby has taken over the production ministry in a country, then what about the farmer of that country and the manufacturer of that country? He stays in misery, he can't pay his debts, he can't pay his debts, he can't pay his debts to the Bank of Agriculture, he can't pay his debts to public banks. If the manufacturer doesn't have money, there won't be money in chains, there won't be a national income. What happens? We go out in environments where agricultural areas, such as pandemic environments, we import wheat, we import corn, we come out, we import barley. What do we do? We import cotton, guys. Is that even possible? The Plain of Light, the Plain of the Aegean. What's up, cotton? During the past week, I went to Cizre, the fields of cotton in Cizre. If you're the country that imports the most cotton in the world in 2019, and you pay $1.6 billion in cotton, 2019, and in the first eight months of 2020, you go up to 720,000 tons and pay $1.1 billion in cotton, you'll make the Greek farmer rich; you won't make our farmer rich, friends. (CHEERING) So, I bring you the greetings of the Light cotton players. Is cotton like this different from olives? If you bring the olive from Afrin, the olive from Syria, and bring it to the internal market for exports, what will happen to my olive maker in Aegean, when we come out and say, "What companies are these, the companies that offer the Afrines olives to the domestic market?" You have to pay for that, too. Dear friends, about the milk. The milkmaker cuts up his animals, gives them to the slaughterhouse. How could he not? According to the National Milk Council, the price of milk has been 2.30 liras per gallon for over a year; 1.5 kilograms of food for one litre of milk. Guys, last year the bait was 70 liras, this year it was 115 lira, last week you raised 5.2 percent, it lasted 120 liras. Who's gonna pay for the 90 cents, fellas, who's gonna pay? The livestock is over, the agriculture is over, the farmers are finished, you're making money for foreign farmers from foreign countries, and then you come out here and make promises as Minister of Agriculture.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0282par0477	And they say we're local.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0281par0478	Guys, this is local, not national.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0283par0480	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0281par0481	What about dear friends, locals, nationals? First you'll look at your own farmer, your own cotton, your own olive oil, your own animal manufacturer. Why didn't you give the farmer the 177 billion dollars you didn't give the citizen under the name of the supplemental premium? Why are you guys getting a 2% income tax out of back-up bonuses? You get 2% income tax from support premiums? Friends, this Minister has made his final commitments, and hopefully, you'll go to the chest and be your last Minister of Agriculture and Forestry. Thank you, guys.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0284par0485	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the removal of the bonds found in Article 27 of the Law Proposal 221 that is currently in session. Ridvan Turan Nusrettin Gamein Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Semra Nice Imam Taşçıer Sepil Kemalbay Pekyöpeğü Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Şırnak MP Hüseyin would not run away if he wanted to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Never Run.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0285par0500	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The 27th article of the law proposal we are negotiating has an arrangement for macaroons and leaf cigarette paper. In addition to Article 3 of the Law Against Trafficking 5607, these declarations are now being added to the third article of the Law on Trafficking, and heavy sanctions are now being brought to the tobacco manufacturer, macaron and leaf cigarette paper. As we say in the proposal of the law, this comes out. The arrangement, which is intended to be referred to as non-region and tax loss, is an application aimed at destroying the small manufacturer while representing the interests of large cigarette monopoly. That's why we say we're against it, and when local tobacco producers need to be supported, such an arrangement will make problems even more insurmountable. There are images you're ashamed of watching. The words of your deafness when you hear them, the words that you wish to be swallowed up in the earth, and that your throats are tied up, and that you perish. When we're out in the open, when we're exposed, when we have a picture, not when we're shared, but when we see pain, when we're missing, when we see shame. I don't know about the other one, but it's precious to remember to be so ashamed. We live in a time when when someone forgets to be ashamed, and we're ashamed. When Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar told him about his problem, he treated cancer-ridden Dilek Özçelik as a beggar. "You have never experienced infamy." We were devastated when he said it. For Roboski, 34 people have been torn apart, "Uludere is an operation accident." When the explanation was made, we'd be deaf. After the disaster that killed the miner in Soma, when we saw the miner get kicked, we wanted to be mortified. We were ashamed to say that the worker who fell from the building, who was buried, who drowned in the dam, was called the prisoner. From the moment we've finished working and started walking, we've been taught that from the moment our minds begin to understand, poverty should not be ridiculed. When we went to poor homes, we grew up hearing that we were always full. We've had too much to eat at the tables that share a piece of bread with us. we said. He doesn't write in places where you shouldn't make fun of someone's poverty, but we do. It's no joke to make a living. He doesn't mock the wound, he knows the wound, he doesn't ignore the absence, he doesn't ignore the absence. If a man is able to express his hunger, we know that he has put his pride aside. So, for example, "God does not discipline anyone with hunger." We'll say. The word "needs" is more metaphorically used, but when you say it, we don't think about saying it to anyone, because he's tried to explain that he's in a very difficult position to put his pride, his honor aside, and instead, we bow our heads because we're ashamed. A loaf is $2, a kilo of tea is $30, minimum wage is $285. There are also those who wait for the evening hours of the market to buy bread, and those who make it themselves in their homes, who watch the market spread for fruits and vegetables. He drinks tea not for joy, but for bread. Thousands of people drink it, so that they don't go dry through his throat. Because the cheapest olive is 25-30, and the cheapest cheese is 30-35 lira, and for a family of 4 people with minimum wage, let alone meat, meat, cheese, bread and olives are worth a thousand lira per month. We can't bring the bread home. It's okay to say that our power has dropped. It's normal to say that the price has been updated. The question of why the price upgrade is not being made on employees' salaries is answered, as you know, on the charge that they're constantly being asked for another intention, and of course, it's not saving respect. Meanwhile, even bread is on the hook; it is wonderful that the public shares bread, bagels, and food in solidarity with one another, but it is overwhelming that power does not see that people need bread. When the neighbor is hungry, and the hungry are ignored, and the hungry are not heard, nor are they seen, it is the shame of power. We say, "May God not discipline anyone with hunger, poverty, and worse, indecency and shamelessness." As Neyzen Tevfik said, bread was enough for everyone. And the raven beset the field, and the mouse in the barn, and the thief in the furnace, and the trespasser in the land. And ye want the poor that are helped, and we want the poor that are destroyed, and therefore we are not able to agree. Stop offering the service as a blessing. When this strawberry nation is worthy of the best and worthy of the best, it should not be deprived of charity, nor should its feelings or its labor be exploited. Together, we will free our people from this power that exposes poverty and misery. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0286par0511	I now submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on Article 28 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal No. 221 is included in Article 28/1 of the proposed Law Proposal, which is included in Article 28/1, and the user of the 16th joke has been removed from the text of the article. Orhan Sarıbal Ayhan Gunitan Cengiz Gökçel Inspired by Özcan Aygun Okan Gaytancıoğlu Orhan Sumer Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Adana MP Orhan Sumer wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Sumer.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0287par0525	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made on Article 28 of the Law Proposal on the Compensation of Food, Agriculture and Forestry. I salute the General Assembly. The 28th article of the law proposal we are discussing is the amendment to Article 3 of Veterinary Services, Plant Health, Food and Feed Law 5996. The proposal brings a fine and a prison sentence for public health, advertising, production and marketing of counterfeiting, taxidermy products to mislead the citizen, to protect public health. As the Republican People's Party, we have supported every issue that would benefit the citizens, and we will continue to support it, but we were against pleasure, nepotism, support of the people yesterday, and we are against it today. It brings money, prison sentences to the person who cheats a citizen, manufactures and sells dirty goods, but there's no clear statement about who, which institution, is going to determine that. Sadly, we have seen for years that power can do things against the law, even against the Constitution. If the clause of the bill is adopted in this manner, tomorrow scientists, associations, universities, vocational rooms will be subject to criminal sanctions of political power. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if there is no freedom of speech, the consequences will be wrong. At least let us remove the pressure from this area. His heart would have wanted the proposal for the food agriculture law to be the lifeblood of our country's first agricultural city, but it has been orphaned in recent years, and my constituency, my hometown of Adana, but unfortunately it is not. The worst evil the AKP government has done to this country is to make Turkey an importer of agricultural products. Because at all times when the EC PARTY governments were in power, the support given to farmers was insufficient. Product inputs have been constantly increased by companies, and the price of farmers' products, with a thousand tortures, with suffering, has been lower than their costs. As the farmer's exploitation continues, consumers are also exploited by merchants. Eventually, the farmer began to fight for his life, not to grow crops. In Turkey, the number of farmers has dropped 48 per cent in the last 12 years, agriculture has dropped 12 per cent in the last 18 years, vegetable gardens have shrunk 15 per cent in the same period. When the AKP came to power in 2002, Turkey's agricultural area dropped from 26 billion hectares to 20 million hectares now. Planted farmland has dropped from 18 million hectares to 13 million. Unfortunately, the farmer stopped plowing the land because he was angry at his own land and his tractor was impounded. More than 5 million hectares of farmland, unfortunately, cannot be planted due to material impossibilities. Precious lawmakers used to be called Turkey, the country of agriculture. Now Turkey has become a country of imported agricultural products. We have become importers of sunflowers from Russia, barley from Ukraine, wheat from America, lentils from Canada, and nohudu from Mexico. I'm afraid all of our seeds have been imported. You've made Turkish seed, tobacco, cotton foreign to our own country. Until recently, there was Turkish tobacco known to the world. Turkish tobacco was the apple of export, exported to the world and produced domestic and national cigarettes. And then what happened? After 2002, he was, unfortunately, orphaned by privatisation. The fertile lands and crops of Asia Minor are no longer available. Unfortunately, there is a government in our entire country that rents farmland from Sudan, turns its back on the farmer; it is obliged to answer to the peasant who is the master of the nation. Recently, the farmers, watermelon makers, the lovers of white gold cotton, the capital of citrus production, my people of Adana will ask the power for this account at the first opportunity. I would like to finish my speech with the words of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, stating how important agriculture and farmers are, perhaps our Minister of Agriculture will hear these words: there are two means of victory in the world; one sword, and the other plow. The true victory is not with the sword, but with the plow. The Turkish farmer used one hand to use his sword and the other to remove the plow from the ground. If the majority of our nation had not been farmers, we would not have been on earth today. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0288par0534	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on Article 29 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 29 of the Law Proposal 221 be removed from the proposal text and that other substances be identified accordingly. Özlem Rich Ramadan Can Tamer Mountain İsmail Kaya Mujahit Durmişoğlu Abdullah Güler Does the commission agree with the motion? We consider it positive, we give it to appreciation. I'm reading the reason for the motion: The motion aims to remove the provisions for the misleading ban imposed on Law 5996 from the proposal text. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. Hence, Article 29 is removed from the text in accordance with the agreed motion. In order not to cause any confusion, we continue to talk through the existing materials of the number of lines text. Article numbers will be identified during the writing of the law. This statement will also apply to materials that will be removed from the text after this. There's one motion on Article 30, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following joke has been added to the material after its fourth joke, which is in the framework order of Article No. 221 of the Law Proposal No. 221, which is in the framework of Article 30, and the following joke has been added to the material, and according to this, the following joke has been changed in the form of the declaration, and we propose that the fifth joke added to the article of Article No. 5996, be removed from the text of matter. Özlem Rich Ramadan Can Tamer Mountain Fehmi Alpay Özalan Sabri Özturk Ahmet Özdemir Does the commission agree with the motion? We're leaving it to appreciation, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason for the motion: The motion aims to remove the provisions for the misleading ban imposed on Law 5996 from the proposal text. Now, I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 30th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There is one motion on Article 31: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The article No. 221 of the Law Proposal No. 221 has been changed under the framework rule of Article 31, which has been replaced and added to the joke. The change in the form of the letter " has been changed. We propose that the first joke of Law No. 5996, which has been changed by the framework, should be replaced in the following way (I) be replaced from the text of matter (r) which has been added to the joke. "I) Antiquated with the fourth joke of the 24th article, copying or assaulting food or bait is confiscated. Products are collected from the market, which is owned by the head of expenses. The market is either destroyed or removed under the Ministry's supervision by an unappropriated product operator, except for the purpose of supply. It is decided that the property of products that are possible to be assessed outside the market's supply purpose should be publicized. Whether it's an imitation of food or bait, 1) Out of 50 thousand Turkish liras to the manufacturer, importer, or supplier of food or bait, which is available under its own name or commercial title, 2) From five thousand Turkish liras to retail food or bait operators who have been released without a traceability. As long as it is not below and does not exceed the five hundred thousand Turkish liras, the penalty for the verb is one percent of its gross annual income at the end of the fiscal year, if it is not possible to calculate it at the end of the previous fiscal year or at the end of the fiscal year. In the event the verb is repeated for the first time in three years, the food or bait operator, who imports, or offers its own name or commercial title, is applied by raising the lower and upper limits of the above administrative fines. If the verb is repeated twice during the same period, the manufacturer or importer of food or food will be fined for up to 3,000 days from a thousand days to three thousand days, and the food or bait operator will be banned from operating in this sector from five to ten years. He who repeats the verb for the second time in three years is fined one percent of his annual gross income at the end of the fiscal year, if it is not possible to calculate it, with less than two hundred thousand Turkish liras and not exceed the two million Turkish liras. Cahit Özkan Ramadan Can Selahattin Minsolmaz Does the commission agree with the motion? We agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: Under Veterinary Services, Plant Health, Food and Feed Act 5996, operators who operate on food, food, materials, and bait are obliged to provide and verify the conditions set in law at every stage of their field of activity. In the same way, the food and bait operator has to create a system to keep up-to-date records of his activities, to ensure monitoring, processing, and distribution, in all phases of production, processing, and distribution, to make sure that any food or vows, food or food in his charge can be added, and the pursuit of food and food can be made and submitted to the ministry in the form of demand. In this scope, businesses operating on food or bait are obliged to ensure and verify the conditions set in law at every stage of their field of operation, including import and primary production, production, processing, processing, moving, selling or supply to the final consumer. In this context, punishments for their own field of activity have been differentiated from manufacturers or importers who provide food or bait to the market under their own name or commercial title. On the other hand, the manufacturer and importer, whose original responsibilities are in the act of counterfeiting, tagging, and banning of sector activity, were envisioned in the event that the verb was carried out for the third time in three years. The food or bait operator, which has been identified as the third time in three years, has been offered an administrative fine from two hundred thousand Turkish liras to two million Turkish liras. It is also intended to be removed from the proposal text of the provisions concerning the misleading ban imposed on Law 5996. Now, I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 31st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There is one motion on Article 32: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Law Proposal Number 221 be removed from the bidding text of Article 32 of the current Law Proposal and that other substances be identified accordingly. Özlem Rich Ramadan Can Tamer Mountain Fehmi Alpay Özalan Sabri Özturk Ahmet Özdemir Does the commission agree with the motion? We're leaving it to appreciation, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason for the motion: The motion aims to remove the provisions for the misleading ban imposed on Law 6112 from the proposal text. Now, I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, Article 32 has been removed from the text. There is one motion on Article 33: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Law Proposal 221 be removed from the proposal text of Article 33 of the current Law Proposal and that other substances be identified accordingly. Özlem Rich Ramadan Can Tamer Mountain Fehmi Alpay Özalan Sabri Özturk Mujahit Durmusoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion? We're leaving it to appreciation, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason for the motion: The motion aims to remove the provisions for the misleading ban imposed on Law 6112 from the proposal text. Now, I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, Article 33 is removed from the text. I submit Article 34 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 35th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. Before voting on the whole proposal, Cırıkkale MP Selahattin Minsilmaz in favor of announcing the color of the game as required by Article 86 of the Civil Code. Here you go, Mr. Minsolmaz.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0289par0628	Mr. President, I'd like to correct the Centipede MP, first of all. Today, our beloved former Minister of Health, Mr. Osman Durmus, who has received Rahmetirahman, my condolences to God, his relatives, our nation, and his party. I have made a personal pledge to the General Assembly that we have completed their talks, on behalf of myself and my 60 fellow lawmakers, to make arrangements in the Food, Agriculture and Forestry Area. I salute your high council. Congressmans, we've completed negotiations on our agriculture, our forests, our producers, consumers, our agricultural industry, our absolute agricultural fields, and ultimately an important legal arrangement for our beloved nation. No doubt plant and animal production, fishing, forestry, wildlife are of great importance to our country, our nation, and humanity. Agricultural and animal production has been seen once again by the world in the pandemic process of what a strategic production site it is. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers have traveled considerable distances in our country's agriculture since 2002 and have been determined to support the quality and quantity development of production. Our manufacturer's ability to make more and more money by making more and more quality production has been continued with determination to implement the right policies of supporting our 83 million people, our consumers, to reach better quality and healthier, cheaper food. In 2002, our agricultural product, 37 billion, increased 7.5 times. Our agricultural exports, which were $3.7 billion in 2002, rose to $18 billion in 2019. The biggest share of this success is also our producer, our farmer, and our agricultural industrialists who run agricultural products. Our country, without much agricultural exports except for agricultural raw products by 2002, has taken to another stage through the right agricultural and agricultural industry policies and has been able to acquire agricultural industrial products for 18 billion dollars in agricultural goods in exports. In Turkey's exports, the world has risen to the world's second in exports of pasta. With our production and marketing power, our country's surplus of foreign trade in agriculture was 5.3 billion dollars -- our producer, industrialist, exporter -- has managed to export 1,827 types of agricultural products to 193 countries. In this success story, this success was achieved today with its history, with its power, with its opposition, with its manufacturers, with its industry, with our Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, with our troops, with our cooperatives, with our agricultural rooms and with the support of all the partners. Mr. President, an example of success in transportation, health care, education, social services, defence industry, the fight against terrorism, and the producers of our beautiful country, in addition to meeting the food needs of our beloved nation, in Europe, in the Balkans, in the Middle East, and in North Africa. In the pandemic process, there has been no problem supplying basic food materials, the retail chain has never failed, the market landscapes abroad have not been seen in our country, agricultural production has continued uninterrupted, and, depending on that, all the needs of our citizens have been met. Throughout our governments, our country has been given $310 billion in agricultural support for agriculture, 33 billion in Turkish dollars in animal production support. 6.6 million hectares of agricultural land have been watered, and 4.7 billion saplings have been planted. Our cattle presence has increased by 80 percent, our small animal presence has increased by 51 percent, milk production has increased by 173%. Our seed exports have increased by 10 times, our seed production has increased by 8 times. We have divided 55 per cent of the 2020 agricultural budget into agricultural benefits. It was 48.4 billion dollars in agricultural GDP, and, depending on that, our country has risen to one of the few self-sufficient countries in the country. Of course, it is inevitable that our country is self-sufficient in agriculture, in livestock, as well as that it has long-term plans. From this point of view, one of the most important regulations for middle and long-term work in agriculture and livestock...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0290par0637	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0289par0638	...as part of this bill. The relevant law proposal covers several issues, but regulations regarding the protection of agricultural territory include the most important part of the law proposal regarding Land Protection and Land Use Law 5403. The fact that agricultural areas are not exported out of agriculture has been introduced within this law proposal to make very important arrangements for practices in areas that have been removed from agriculture. So this law proposal is good, and this law proposal contains positive clauses for our country. I wish our nation the best of this law offer, and once again, for the sake of the health and future of our beloved nation, we find it important to ensure agriculture in our country. As I end my words, I salute your great delegation, the blessed Mevlit Kandili, of our nation, of our MPs, and of Republic Day.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0291par0642	The word against you belongs to Lord Orhan Sarıbal. Here you are, Mr. Saribal.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0292par0645	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers and, of course, the co-workers of the House (2/2985) have completed the talks on Act Proposal No. 2/2985). Of course, in my first speech on the law, I made it very clear that the law was not democratic because it was definitely not discussed by its shareholders. Again, the opposition parties made a lot of statements, said a lot of things, not a word entered into the law. Again, for this law, I said: this law is not the law of the people; this law is part of the failures of power in the past; this law does not increase the punishment because it cannot fulfil the control mechanism of power; this law, the forest Talan; this law, the right of ownership, the law to be taken from people and given to the public, the law to seize property somewhere. An example? Let me put it briefly: taxing and punishment on monopoly dealerships; the result is that society has all been chemists, but they have used methyl alcohol instead of ethanol, and we have a problem in this country where more than 100 people have died, and the basis of this problem is power. I mean, the people who died of methyl alcohol on this land today are because of power, because of the wrong policies of power, because of the increase in taxes. Guilty as charged, it's a deep issue, and I'm hoping we'll have some new talks in the House. So, you're punishing society in this country by punishing monopoly dealers. By punishing monopoly dealers, you're telling the rich in this country to live as you please, to go to the poor for poison and to die; it's very clear. Again, the issue of tobacco will begin at 2022, with 30 per cent per cent in 2025. Why not now? Why not more? Because it's not your decision, it's your signatures that make foreign companies, foreign monopolyes, and you're carrying water into their mill. Again, another matter of neighboring parcels. We said the right to buy the neighbor's parcel was wrong, you didn't believe it, you applied it, you saw it was wrong, but you're making a new mistake. Then why did you put the land scale on it? Why did you go to such a construction? The land scale is the right job to ensure sufficient income, but bringing in the neighboring parcel app first and then removing it would mean going back to the old error again. So I'd like to share all of this in areas we don't approve of. Forests... we've told you many times: the forest is not built by your will, but by its own biodiversity, by its ecosystem, in hundreds of years of ecosystems. Now you're saying that we're going to move the saplings inside the city into the forest. That's where we'll grow the medical aromatic plants. That's where we'll grow the fungus. Yes, the fungus is already growing in the forest. Don't touch it, it's got mushrooms, it'll grow. Again, you're also saying: "We're going to run businesses related to Kereste." We said, "A forest massacre," and you're going on. This is a forest massacre. Another thing that you do is very important: there's a model of crime, pay for it while you increase the sentence, but continue the punishment, pay for it, but continue the punishment. This is so wrong. He's standing right next to us as the most important part of the forest massacre right now. Lastly, we've already said it over and over in tobacco, and we said it was wrong to practice tobacco. In order to collect taxes on tobacco, you insist on punishment... in Macaron, in the contract tobacco plant, you finish all of this. On the one hand, the effort to increase domestic tobacco to 30 per cent, and on the other hand, you make a clear point about the fact that domestic tobacco is not especially produced in the form of Shark tobacco. Again, you're predicting the Ministry's involvement in the distribution of land through the matter of land ifraz, through the matter of confederacy. That's not gonna happen. You want the distribution of property within the family within a year. That's not possible, there are lawyers among you. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0293par0658	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0292par0659	Lawyers say it takes three years on average in Turkey. When you squeeze this into a year, and then you pass it on to the public, it's not really right. Finally, perhaps you should say that there are good things in the law, that there are wrong turns, that's important. It's a valuable thing for power to give self-criticism, to confront itself, and we care about it, but on the other hand, it's certainly not in the ability of agriculture and producers to solve the problems of 83 million people in agriculture and food sovereignty and food safety. It's just the handling of the situation, it's a law against solving some everyday mechanisms, and it's the basic law, but the bag is the law because it's made up of 12 articles. Finally, I'll just say this: our friend came out, he said, he said what they do well in agriculture. You can play with numbers all you want, but no other government in the history of the Republic of Turkey has done so much damage to agriculture, agriculture, natural habitats, forest areas and all of our other resources. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The last word is that the rulers and the rich left only the field to the poor. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-10-27sit04spe0294par0667	[[Applause from CHP rows]] The entire proposal is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and in spite of that help, the members of the voting boards who have not been able to get into the system to the presidential office during the time they've been given a vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I've got an open voting report coming in, and I'm gonna read it: Aydın MP Metin Yavuz and 60 MP's Law Proposal on Making Some Editings in Food, Agriculture and Forest Areas is an open vote: ▪ Number of votes used: 266 [[x]] The offer has been accepted and legalized. The issues on our agenda are complete. On Tuesday (November 3rd 2020), it is 15 p.m. to discuss audit issues and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, with law proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
