tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2021-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2019 Central Management Computing Law Proposal. According to the program, we'll be interviewing in round one today. In the first round, Turkey's Grand National Assembly, Public Audition Foundation, Constitutional Court, Court, Ministry of Culture and Tourism, Radio and Television Top Board, State Opera and Ballet General Directorate, State Theatre General Directorate of State Theatres, Turkey's Editor-in-Chief of Writers, Foundation of Foundations, Turkey's Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, President of Foreign Turks and Associations, Ataturk Culture, Language and History High Institution, Ataturk Research Centre, Turkish Language Institute, Turkey's Association, Cappadok Alan's Office, the budget and final accounts. 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The Central Management Final Account for Public Control Agency 2019 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Radio and Television Oversight 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2021 2) General Directorate of State Theatres 2019 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY WRITTEN PRESIDENT 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Agency 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2021 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account YURTISHI ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTION 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, 2021 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Research Center 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Language Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Historical Institution Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Historical Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Cappadocia Field President's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Cappadocia Field President 2019 Central Management Final Account Commission? He's in position. Members of parliament, under the decision taken, the talks on the tour will be promised to conduct to political party groups and to state their opinion in accordance with Article 62 of the Interior Charter, which can be used by more than one speaker, and the duration of the talks on behalf of the individual will be five minutes each. Also, when the talks are completed, the question-answer process, the ten-minute question, the ten-minute answer, and the questions will be asked without justification. It's for your information. In the first round, I take turns reading the names of political party groups, executive and individuals. AK PARTI Group: Hasan Turan, Yavuz Subabi, Mustafa Arslan, Mustafa Yel, Mustafa Köse, Tülay Kaynarca, Ravza Karakcı Kan, Sermin Balık, Mustafa Atash, Mehmet Erdoğan, Zafer Çakkaya, Halil Özşavlı, Mustafa Levent Karahocagil, Mustafa Ağöz. GOOD PARTY: Enez Kaplan, Hasan Subabi, Orhan Çakırer, Yavuz Zekalalioğlu, Aylin Gutler, Abdul Ahat Andican. Nationalist Movement Party: İsmail Faruk Aksu, Mehmet Taytak, Feti Yıldız, Erkan Haberal, Cemal Çetin, Kamil Aydın. Peoples' Democratic Party: Mahmut Toğrul, Ebrü Günay, Mehmet Rushı Tiryaki, Kemal Bulbül, Garo Paylan, Ömer Faruk Gergerlioğlu, Kemal Peköz. Republican People's Party: Ahmet Tuncay Özkan, Mahmut Tanal, Suzan Şahin, Levent Gök, Cetin Osman Budak, Saliha Sera Kadigil Milkylu, Özcan Purçu, Mürsel Alban, Utku Çakırözer, İrfan Kaplan, Yüksel Özkan, Hüseyin Avni Aksoy. Subjects: In his favor, Abdulkadir Special; against him, Sevda Erdan Sword. Now, the first word is for İstanbul MP Hasan Turan. Here you go, Mr. Turan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your speech time is five minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0002par0078	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTI Group on the budget of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the 2021-Year Management Budget Law Proposal, which is the third budget of our presidential government system. I salute your high council. Starting with my words, I wish the budget of 2021 would bring blessings to our country, our Veteran Assembly, and our great nation. Dear friends, this year we have realized the 100th anniversary of our Great National Assembly. Our coven is not just any coven. This is a Veteran Assembly, which has ruled the Imperial War itself, home to a nation that owns its sovereignty and future, the Parliament that established the state of the Republic of Turkey. Over the course of a hundred years, the will of our Parliament has been removed from time to time, the will of the national will has been cut off, the control of the government and the political powers have been pressured from time to time, but today, the nation has been restored to a structure that defends its will, democracy in the strongest way possible. This Parliament is a council facing coups, questioning coups, calculating coups. This Parliament is a Parliament that defies its will, its operation, its spirit, and protects its will knowingly. (AK PARTY) This Parliament, which has taken power from the nation, is as powerful as our nation, is the guarantee of our full future and full future today as it was 100 years ago, along with its rulers and judges. Just as the Great National Assembly of Turkey became a headquarters and command centre in the most difficult conditions of the War, the July 15th was the centre of our resistance against traitors, along with representatives of our parliamentary and political parties at the beginning of the July 15th coup attempt, with our country's leadership, with our MPs, and with our nation's nation, that dark night, the lights were never turned off, the voice and the breath of our nation. On the night of the 15th of July, the brave and decisive stance of this House has taken place in the history of the world's democracy. My dear friends, parliament and consultation are the most important traditions of the country's administration and decision-making. The appreciation of our civilization has shown us is an epiphany of our Congress tradition. The truth is born from conflict of ideas, but to promote division or discrimination among our nation, to provoke it, to refer to the spirit of the Assembly as well as to the brotherhood of our nation. Even though the ground is heated debates, political debates, I believe that when it comes to our red lines, our country, our nation, when we have sovereignty, we will be together and we will be together. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We all know that every non-democratic intervention to the political institution, the national will has cost our country and our nation a great deal of valuable time in competing with the countries of the world. Despite this fact, the demands of democracy and power in some circles still point to the existence of enslaved souls who seek to disable the national will and our Parliament. Dear friends, all the work of our Veteran Assembly is done in a clear and transparent way in this understanding and understanding of the importance of representing the nation and acting on behalf of the nation. During the days of the General Assembly's work, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where the average 6,000 citizens came as visitors, hosts guests from other countries from time to time. Due to the fact that Turkey's Grand National Assembly is a window institution, it is important that the social facilities within our Parliament provide transparent and quality services without problems and controversy.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0003par0088	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0002par0089	To point out politics and politicians, however, is the work of those who long for coupters, juntarian governments, who want to open doors to non-political forces. Their intention to eliminate politics, discredit politics in public, and open it to certain environments is a futile effort. The reputation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is our country's, because Turkey is the Grand National Assembly, which means nation. Once the Turkish Grand National Assembly is taken care of, there will be nothing left for our democracy and our system. My dear friends, I applaud the efforts of our President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to ensure that we work in the most healthy way during the 27th and especially in the pandemic process. Thank you, Mr. Speaker, for all the support they've given us in every area we need, for our efforts, our bureaucrats, and our staff. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As I end my remarks, Turkey wishes the Grand National Assembly and all our other institutions to have a good budget of 2021, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0004par0094	Balıkesir MP Yavuz Subaş. Here you go, Mr. Subas. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0005par0098	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Public Control Agency, and I salute our Veteran Assembly. In accordance with Article 74 of our Constitution, everyone has the right to seek information and to appeal to the public auditor. The decision was established on 14 June 2012 and 6328, according to the Law of 6328, in order to establish an independent and effective complaint mechanism in the functioning of public services, in accordance with all kinds of actions and procedures and actions and behaviors, in the sense of justice based on human rights, in order to study law, rights, and to make recommendations, and to be able to complete the first organization under the law. In addition to the efficient and efficient functioning of public services in the modern-day administration of our era, the rights and interests of citizens must be protected as well as protected and maintained during the execution of these services. O son, let a man live so that the state can live. The Society of Public Control, which is reintegrated in accordance with the needs of our long-standing government tradition, is an institution that helps to ensure that governance works in accordance with the principles of good governance, which can question all the actions of the people in its behalf. Today, there are more than 140 national, regional, or local levels in the world, a public audit agency or ombudsman's office. The ombudsmanship, which has been widely used in the world to reduce the complaints of public services, improve the quality and efficiency of public services, maintain the rule of law, implement good governance in public administration, act in transparency, accountability, contribute to the creation of a human-focused administration, contribute to the development of the right-seeking culture, protect the weak person in public power, has been successful for eight years. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In view of our modern administration, our ancient understanding of justice, universal human values, the quality of good governance and democracy, judicial control, Parliamentary control, and ombudsman's control are very important. As the agency's annual reports will be examined, year after year, the number of applications and species have been shown, so far, as of December 1st, 1st, 793 applications have been submitted within eight years, which have largely resulted in six months of legal time. Between these decisions and our government and our citizens, a warm, intimate communication bridge has been established, the victims of many of our citizens have been eliminated. The friendly solution, a sort of compromise, has been one of the most frequent methods used by the institution, which has enabled the complaint applications to be resolved more effectively and quickly. Clearly, rights and freedoms need direct, flexible, fast, and cost-free mechanisms to be protected better. In order to achieve the legal state's ideal, to protect basic rights and freedoms, to ensure the commitment of the administration to good governance principles, the Public Control Agency has established a successful practice in the past eight years. The important thing is to be fair, to maintain justice. As he said, our institutions, such as the Public Control Agency, will continue to stand by those who are right for our institutions of human rights, because to stand by the righteous is the essence of civilization that we have. There is no greater power in the world than being right. Mr. President, honorable MPs, in December of December 22, 1979, 17 December 1980, 11 December 1993, I honor and cherish our martyred Foreign diplomats, heroes, ages Yücel, Şarık Ariyak, Engin Sever, Nihat Akbaş, Bilal Ürgen, Adem Cicek, Bkent Karanşal, Süleyman Karahasanoğlu and Yilmaz Çolpan.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0006par0108	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0005par0109	Born on December 12, 1916, we commemorate the late Cemil Meric, the late friend and brother country, the President of Azerbaijan, Haydar Aliyev, who died on December 27, 1936, and our late Islamic anthem poet Mehmet Akif. Thank you, Mr. Secretary Recep Tayyip Erdogan, for the services performed as a member of our Veteran Assembly. As it is December 17th, I would like to complete my statement by saying: "If the person wants to know who he is, let him look to whom he loves. I wish that the budget of 2021, which is now the 19th budget of the EC PARTI government, should be a blessing for our nation and our country.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0006par0112	Mr. Mustafa Arslan, Mr. Tokat MP. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0007par0115	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the budget of the Constitutional Court. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation watching us on their screens. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We're discussing the 19th budget of the EC PARTY governments, which came to power in 2002, thanks to our nation, and the 3rd budget of our presidential government. I wish our budget, prepared by our presidency, would be a blessing for our country, for our nation, and for the support of our party and for our President, I thank our beloved nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear MPs, the duties of the Constitutional Court have been established by Article 148, of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court is tasked with overseeing laws in accordance with the Constitution, the control of political parties, the Supreme Court, and establishing individual applications; it has entered our legal system with the Constitution of 1961; constitutional courts have made decisions in the past years, unfortunately, on the basis of universal values such as democracy, human rights, rule of law in many countries in the world. The 367 decision has not been erased from memory by the cancellation of the 411 vote for the headscarf arrangement. These Kabul decisions have led Turkey to deep, social and economic crises, making the Constitutional Court the focus of debates. Since our party came to power in 2002, serious reforms, structural changes have been implemented on the basis of fundamental rights and freedoms and the legal state. In this regard, the Constitutional Court has returned to its original position with constitutional amendments and has been excluded from daily political debates. In 2010, the amendment to the Article 148 (48) of the Constitution was introduced to our legal system by the individual application process. The Constitutional Court, which has brought significant innovations to the Turkish legal system, has not only been an institution that oversees the constitutional compliance of norms, but has become a judicial body that directly tackles the legal violations that our citizens face after the consumption of legal ways. The point here is that the authority given to the Constitutional Court is not a control mechanism for court decisions, including the Supreme Courts. It is unacceptable for the Constitutional Court to present itself in the place of the super appeals tribunal, to exercise proper control, to go beyond the limits set by the Constitution and the laws. From September 23, 2012 to September 30, 2020, the total number of individual applications reached 285,220. The Constitutional Court has ruled on about 86 per cent of these applications. 90 per cent of 244,743 cases reached a total decision have been decided to be unacceptable. In fact, 11.124 cases have ruled a 5 per cent administrative rejection, 4.3 per cent violation of rights. According to the application rate, the ratio of rights violations is extremely low. In addition to implementing individual application, the Ministry of Justice has established the chairmanship of the Human Rights Compensation Commission. With this commission, adopted by the European Court of Human Rights as an internal law, applications to the European Court of Human Rights have been reduced, and our country has gained credit in international law enforcement. Dear lawmakers, the Constitutional Court, which has returned to its original post with the provisions and structural reforms of our party for the preservation of fundamental rights and freedoms, has recently been brought up again with the social media sharing of a member of its member. The purpose of this joyful sharing is nothing more than a longing and deliberate reference to the former guardianship structure. (EA/DG) However, Turkey's institutions tasked to protect democracy are at its disposal. On the 15th of July, our nation did not give way to guardians and coupgers, but by putting their lives on the line, it took control of its will.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0008par0126	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0007par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. On the 15th of July and in our country's fight against terrorism, I remember all our martyrs and veterans from here with grace and gratitude. With these thoughts, I wish the Constitutional Court and all of our institutions to have the best budget of 2021, with respect to the General Assembly and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0009par0131	Mr. Mustafa Yel, Tekirdağ MP. Here you go, Mr. Yel.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0010par0134	Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers, my esteemed citizens who are watching us at the beginning of their screens, I have made a commitment to speak for the AK PARTY Group on the budget of our Chief Justice for 2021. I hereby salute your esteemed delegation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The Court's history has a long history of the Karahans, the Turkish states, and the Court, which was established in the Court and Ottoman period until the Court's Accountability, which was established in 1862. The foundations of the present - day Court are laid down with the Court of Accounting. With the formation of the Republic, the Court took its place in the state structure and was included in the Constitutions of 1924, 1961 and 1982, respectively. The Court's task framework is organised in the Constitution. Since the Constitution of 1876, the Court has remained a constitutional institution. The Court, based on its continent Europe and especially the model of France, is one of the examples of the Supreme Court, which is organised and equipped with judicial authority. The characterization of the Court as the Court of Accounts points to this institutional structure and judicial authority. Those responsible for the final provisions issued by the Court cannot resort to any other administrative judiciary. The Court is trying to produce independent, impartial, reliable and accurate services as a higher judiciary and auditing public administration's income, expense and property, providing reports to Turkey's Grand National Assembly, overseeing whether public resources are being used in accordance with legislation, making sure that the account and transactions of those responsible are fully judged and continue to work within the determination and zeal to carry out their duties and responsibilities. The Court aims to serve the development of institutional strategic plans, annual performance programmes and operational reports in accordance with legislation, implementation and conclusion, the creation of a functioning internal control system, the functioning of mechanisms that will properly meet the needs of the public financial management system and the development of control awareness in public administration, starting with the objectives envisioned in public administration. In this scope, the task given to him by the Constitution and laws is most effective, following developments in the world in the sense of continuous development of authority and responsibilities, with its audits on behalf of the Supreme Assembly, honest, without prejudice, objectively, and also in line with international control standards, aimed at contributing to public administration's transparency and accountability. The Court has always been one of Turkey's most popular and most preferred public institutions, and this tradition continues in recent years. Therefore, the Court has the most competent human resource in its field and has the key importance of the best and most effective fulfillment of its competent and qualified human resources, tasks and responsibilities. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers include a three-four-year cycle of auditing as a whole, as a whole, as well as reviewing the results of previous years' audits, planning the period-related audits, and monitoring the audit results during the following periods. A total of 190 Court audit reports have been submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, including 179 under Law No. 5018, 11 public administrations that are not subject to the law. The 205 public administrations, including local administrations, and local administration companies, have also been audited. 81 Court audit reports on the control of public enterprises will be submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in December. In the next year, 572 public administrations, including 101 public enterprises, are scheduled to be audited. As part of the audits, the error affecting 1,903 financial reports and tables has been identified as 5,703 errors, a total of 5,703 errors, affecting fiscal reports and tables and failing to comply with legislation, including 3,800 errors related to legislation. In 2020, the 355 indictments were brought to trial within the year from the main reports. Mr. President, the Court's budget for 2021 is envisioned as $441,550,000 Turkish lira. The amount of $302.6 million is from employee costs, 40 million from SGK state premiums, 42.5 million from purchases and services expenses, 4.3 million from current transactions, 51.9 million from capital costs.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0011par0142	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0010par0143	The Supreme Court wishes the financial year budget of 2021 to be blessed, and I salute your grand delegation with the greatest love and respect, and thank you for your presence.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0011par0145	Mr. Mustafa Köse of Antalya. Here you go, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0012par0148	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the AK PARTY Group on the budget of 2021 of our very valuable lawmakers, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. I hereby salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our country is the most beautiful country in the world, with a very rich history and cultural heritage, and its unique natural beauty, its historical texture and its human interest in the world. Our Ministry of Culture and Tourism is working hard to ensure the protection of our country's universal values of culture, art and tourism, to promote, to facilitate access to information in the creation of social consciousness, and to increase our country's share of the world's tourism. During our rule, Turkey achieved significant success by entering between the leading countries with investments in tourism, including the emergence of both our cultural assets and the transfer of them to future generations. In this context, the growth of our country's tourism industry has continued in recent years, while 13.3 million tourists visited our country in 2002, while 46 million visitors were hosted in 2018 and 52 million visitors in 2019. In terms of the number of tourists, Turkey has been ranked sixth in the world and 13th in terms of tourism revenue. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Most tourists come to our country from Russia, Germany, Britain, Ukraine and the Netherlands. We are looking at five other countries from Switzerland, Italy, from India, from America, from Canada, from Indonesia; from China, from Indonesia; from Japan, from New Zealand; from Argentina, from Venezuela; from South Africa, from Nigeria; from France, from Spain; from every seven continents of the world. If your tourism infrastructure wasn't good; if you didn't have your highly modern facilities, your smiley service; without peace, trust, safety in your country; if Turkey were at odds with everyone, as someone claims, would this many people rise from all over the world and come to your country? No one's even gonna be in your neighborhood. We give thanks to our ministers and to all those who have done so, especially our President, who has brought this peace, trust, and stability. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] While Turkey aims to host 58 million tourists in 2020 and gain over $40 billion in tourism revenues, there has been a serious recession in tourism movements in our country, as has the outbreak of Covid-19 throughout the world. The Security Tourism Certification Programme, one of the first examples in the world, is to minimize the negative effects of the Covid-19 epidemic on the sector and to ensure that the tourist movements that have begun gradually lead to our country. In the tourism sector, all employees have been provided with short labour allowances, measures have been taken to cover part of the employment costs of businesses, steps needed to make the sector's shareholders as less impressed by the crisis as possible. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, Antalya, the capital of agriculture and tourism, are Turkey's windows to the world. Our Antalya has become a brand for our country with its historical heritage, sea, sand, sun, geography, tourism infrastructure and modern facilities. The growing diversity of culture tourism, the number of visitors, is hosted by many international activities as a cultural and tourism centre with the goal of summer and winter tourism. In 2002, 14.7 million tourists came to Antalya, where we took from 61 Blue Flags and raised them to 206 Blue Flags. This is the zeal of our governments, and the result of investment in Antalya in culture, art and tourism over the past 18 years, of 799 million euros, roads that facilitate access to service, airports, treatment facilities, clean environments, and the clean sea that we have provided. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In particular, in recent years, free public beaches are being built in areas where tourism is dense, according to our citizens' demands. In this regard, last year, we made five star public beaches for Belek and Kadiriye, and offered them to our countrymen. I, Mr. Mehmet Ersoy, especially our Minister of Culture and Tourism, would like to thank you very much for these magnificent facilities. We also called it the clean sea. For that, in 2020, we have earmarked $24 million for construction of the Antalya Serik Waste Water treatment plant and connectivity facilities, and another $800,000 for the Belt Waste Water Facility. The culture we're in...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0013par0162	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0012par0163	Of course. Finally, you know, last year, 2020 was declared the year of Patara by our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. We built a high-capacity reception center for Patara Kören in the district of Kash, where we circulated between important structures such as theatre, parliamentary structure, and columned street and carried out landscaping arrangements. We are all waiting for you all to go to the 8th wonder of the world, the ancient city of Patara, where more than 255,000 visitors came this year in the first 11 months. I would like to take this opportunity to invite all our countrymen to Patara. I wish the budget of 2021 to be a blessing for our state and our beloved nation, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0014par0167	Mr. Tülay Kaynarca, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0015par0170	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group for the budget of the Radio and Television Supreme Council in 2021. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The RTÜK was founded in 1994 to organise and supervise radio and television activities, and the Supreme Council elects the members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is where it elects the High Council members. The operation of RTÜK (RTÜK) with administrative and financial autonomy. The institution's workload has increased considerably, with the rise of internet broadcasting. There are still 1,722 radio and television broadcasts in our country, except for optional broadcasting platforms on the Internet, which are still under way, and I'd like to point out that there are 1,722 radios and television broadcasts in our country. According to the latest data, the total number of subscribers of satellite and cable platform businesses is approximately 7.1 million. As of today, the sector's gross commercial communications revenues to the Oversight are 3 billion 355 million. The Supreme Council has a lot of revenues, such as broadcasting license fees, frequency use, but since we have reduced those rates with legal regulations, the RTÜK, which has now increased income in previous times to the general budget, is now receiving treasury assistance from this period. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are still in charge of organizing and auditing radio, television and optional publications presented in the Internet environment, along with the development and progress of technology. The regulations are out, the licenses are up and running. Dear lawmakers, RTÜK also signed efforts to bring international publishers to our country during this period. I care a lot about that because in the world of big publishing companies like Netflix, Amazon, they came to our country one by one to get their broadcasting licenses. They actually existed before, but they didn't pay a dime of taxes, they didn't have legal responsibilities, and they didn't have to deal with them. But with a successful study today, they all appointed representatives to Turkey, established their companies; took part of their licenses, and some of them continue to process. I think it's a very successful study. I congratulate both our Minister and the president of the RTÜK, and thank you for this process. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear MPs, I'd like to point out a symposium by the RTÜK, which is also very important: the support of our Ministry of Culture and Tourism, which has been prepared in this process, our Ministry of Communication and the President of the Dianet Affairs, TRT, Ercias University and SETA, and the International Media and Islamicophobia Symposium, which I would like to address. Why? Because there's a very wrong point in the world about Islamophobia. And the RTÜK, along with its shareholders -- university organizations -- will clearly tell the world about the media reflections of anti-Islamic anti-Islamicism. I'd like to extend my thanks to all of the institutions in our Veterans' Parliament who support this kind of work. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to express my opinion on the recent debates against the RTÜK. Using their legal authority, the RTÜK is being targeted with false accusations. The Supreme Council is organizing and overseeing the publishing area, looking at our national and spiritual values, but especially our children are making the ultimate effort to protect our young people from harmful literature. It is not acceptable to be asked to wear down this institution, it is not acceptable to want to be put on the target. What we need to talk about is those who insult our heroic army and utter unspeakable words.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0016par0181	Now you think of the army?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0015par0182	It's not the punishment of RTÜK. It's the insult to our army.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0016par0184	Take care of your cosmic room, your cosmic room.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0015par0185	There's a report from surveillance experts.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0016par0186	You're still holding 20-year-olds in prison, army members.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0015par0187	There's a decision in the middle -- at the beginning of my speech -- by the RTÜK (RTÜK), the representative of all political parties -- but you're being charged with one person, one institution. It's not acceptable.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0016par0188	Here's a letter from the prison, a letter from 20-year-olds.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0015par0189	So it's not freedom of speech that's being threatened here; it's the real threat...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0017par0191	Let's complete it, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0015par0192	The main thing to draw attention to is trying to cover up the harsh words that have been made to our Turkish Armed Forces, our heroic army. I'm sorry. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) No one dares speak ill of our army, which our beloved nation sees as the Torch of the Prophet...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0018par0193	Everyone sees the Prophet's stove.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0015par0194	...and if he extends the language, he'll get his answer, politically, he'll get administrative, he'll get legal.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0018par0196	You'll get it. I really wish you'd taken care of the army.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0019par0197	Send your children to the army, your children!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0015par0198	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish the 2021 budget, which is 224 million and 213,000 liras of RTÜK, to be a blessing to our beloved nation, and to our General Assembly and our nation, I salute you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0018par0200	Don't talk about military love, talk about it!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0020par0201	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0021par0202	Mr. Nightingale, we promise political party groups at the end of the tour because of the bullying. That's why I'm not making promises about bullying.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0020par0203	Mr. President, for the record. We reject the statements in the Hatibi's speech, we don't accept them. To get into the report...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0021par0204	There's a tease, you let the Deputy Director of the Group know, and he'll give you the answer to the talks at the end of the tour. Yes, Mr. Ravaza Karakcı Kan. Here you go, Mr. Blood.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0022par0207	Mr. President, dear MPs, dear nation, I salute you. I have made a pledge to our Ministry of Culture and Tourism on the budgets of the State Opera and Ballet General Directorate and General Directorate of State Theatres. I'd like to begin by expressing my joy, pride for myself and my country, for the successful work of both of our General Directorates despite the challenges of the epidemic. During the outbreak, our State Theatres continued to bring our nation together with a number of local, foreign games, both in the field and in the audience. The State Opera and Balletm have also presented many of its activities, such as the Istanbul Festival, which is carried out in the open, in accordance with measures, to our nation's approval. In the fight against the outbreak of Covid-19, support and projects for stage art continued continuously. Our Ataturk Cultural Centre, which is under construction in Istanbul, will be a source of joy in our country's art and culture with many different features. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, last week I had the opportunity to witness another historic day for the opera and country that I was closely pursuing. The new building of our Presidential Symphony Orchestra was opened with a spectacular view of our capital, designed for the natural acoustic principle of the local and national orchestra chairs from our youth in Beypazari. (APPLAUSE) In our new concert hall, I was proud of myself and my country, as an artist, as a fellow artist and as an artist, I remembered our world-famous artists, opera artists, opera artists, sopranos, Turkish art music artists, Turkish folk music artists, composers, artists, ballet artists, artists, artists, artists, artists, and artists who were left behind in the theatre; I also remembered our artists, as well as our artists, as our artists, as well as our artists, as our artists, as well as our artists, as our artists, who were made to work for the most important years. Mr. President, my dear fellow public defenders, when I made a promise in previous budget talks about our State Opera and Ballet General Directorate, I mentioned that I was the first students of the Opera Children's Choir, which was founded in July 1983; despite many difficulties, I talked about the parents who took me and my friends from the Opera Children's Choir every weekend to the pink opera house in Ulus. Every weekend when my mother dropped me off at the Opera House, I would run to my friends, and I would look forward to the new songs my dear Professor Sadattin Ünal and Sevim Ünal Hodjas would patiently teach us after breathing and sound exercises. Our Sevim and Sadetin Hodjas can't sing, the children can't sing, the children can't sing. Despite the many obstacles that have been put in their way, they soon received the result of their voluntary training, with their own children's songs, opera works, with their patience, and in the opera of all the students I've been with, the world-famous conductor of our orchestra, Gökmen, and the successful opera artists. After that, our precious teachers raised hundreds of students, signed many fine services in our country and abroad.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0023par0213	Mr. Kan, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0022par0214	I'm finishing, thank you. From here I pay my respects to my esteemed Sevim and Saditin Ünal Hodjas, my thanks to them and to my parents, who encouraged me. Thank you, Mr. President, for clearing the way for art and for the artist. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I ask that the budget of 2021 bring blessings to our ministry, our country; I salute our nation, its art lovers and its General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0024par0221	Mr. Sermin Balık, Elazıg MP. Here you go, Mr. Fish.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0025par0224	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my AK PARTI Group on the budget of the President of Turkey's Writers' Office for Executive Budget Proposal of 2021. I salute our Veteran Assembly, you precious MPs, and our beloved nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Turkey has also achieved significant achievements in culture and tourism, which have gained great success and momentum in all areas during the AK PARTI rule. Writing works are handwritten and hand-replicated before the use of the printing press is widely produced in every area from medicine to philosophy, astronomy to mathematics, and all over our land and geography. Handwritten artifacts are one of the most important records of the memory of our nation's hundreds of years of knowledge, savings, and values. Protecting these valuable works by using the technology of the day is one of the institution's first tasks to make it easy for modern - day people to benefit from the work of specialized staff. For this reason, for the first time in Turkey, a Book Healer has been opened. Here is the restoration and restoration of artifacts from many parts of the world, located in Turkey. Book Healing is also an educational centre and an international institution for study of Islamic writings. Again, studies are being carried out with the newly developed systems and RD teams with the installations of writing, restoration, and scientific analysis. Between 2013-2020, 1,406 writings were completed, and 530 rare artifacts were repaired. Another 220 artifacts were planned to be restored within our goals in 2021. More than 5,000 works are available in the libraries of writing by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. We developed all the works found in our libraries in the Writing Portal, and opened them in library halls. Also published works can be downloaded and read as e-books for free. In order to enrich our libraries, artefacts in the hands of institutions or individuals abroad are added to our collection by means of donations, revolutions and purchases, and by increasing the number of works in our libraries, we offer them to our readers. Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is among the number of libraries in the world in terms of his collections and services, the National Library, which is the largest library in Turkey. In the National Library of the Republic, the following of Mr. President: Writing Artists' Electorals: The exhibition also exhibited the most valuable examples of works produced in the culture, art and science activities of Medina, Cairo, Damascus, Baghdad, Buhara, Saherkant, Horasan, Icona, Bursa, Istanbul, and many different parts of the world. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I hereby salute the Veteran Assembly with respect to all of our budgets of 2021, my beloved city, Elazig, our nation, and our state.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0026par0232	Mr. Mustafa Atash, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Paperman.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0027par0234	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the budgets of our Foundation General Directorate as part of the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal talks. I salute your high council and our beloved nation with a most respectful greeting. Today, our nation, one of the rare and great nations that has left a mark on history, has a great role in the race to serve humanity through our General Directorate of Foundations. In the historical process of our civilization, our foundations have been a factor in creating a strong and unshakable society, providing all the resources that social life requires for the welfare, happiness, and dignity of people both financially and spiritually. Today, our General Directorate of Foundations enjoys sharing its resources with the spiritual power it has received from its history, with its brothers who are still breathing the same air. Our beloved nation has set up foundations to make this race of service permanent and eternal. The foundations of our national culture, which are considered the most important institutions, have served in all areas that come to mind. The foundations of a civilization have also gathered upon all that exists in the creation of our nation. Our foundations, which are a powerful evidence of our past, make up an important part of our culture and are within the borders of the Republic of Turkey, are now under the control of the General Directorate of Foundations. Dear lawmakers, we can find the traces of our civilization in many places outside our borders today, not only in the land under our own control. That's why we meet in so many places with foundations and monuments and artifacts. Some of these have been preserved fairly well, while others have been destroyed for various reasons, unfortunately. Although the preservation of cultural assets from ancient civilizations is crucial to human history, the fact that war does not recognize rules, especially the fact that Muslim Turkish hostility is at a high stage, is also concentrated on attacks against historical artifacts. Despite the painful paintings of unconstitutional wars, we today observe that the works that have come to us from the history of our General Directorate of the Foundation are engaged in intense efforts to preserve and maintain both domestically and abroad. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, as of 2002, our number of historical artifacts reached 19,500. Even that number is enough to demonstrate the zeal our Foundation General Directorate has made in recent years. With the utmost zeal of our General Directorate of Foundations, the restoration of hundreds of ancient artifacts, which have not been repaired for years, has been completed. The Foundation of the Foundation has made great efforts and continues to protect our cultural heritage, which is a living bridge between generations from yesterday, which operates with great care in the maintenance, repair and restoration of monuments and ancient artifacts established through the foundation. Between 2002-2020, the restoration of our 5,400 foundation has been completed in the last 18 years. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] In 2020, the maintenance, repair and restoration work of our additional 168 works has been completed and 366 jobs are still under way. Before 2002, there were only four museums in the General Directorate of the Foundations, while in 2003-2020, the number was raised to 11. As of 2020, there were 4,564 people in need from the General Directorate of Foundations. 20,359 families, 78,780 people, benefit from dry food and hot food. The free scholarship service, which started in 2006, continues in 2020 with 15,000 secondary schools, 5,400 university students and 600 foreign students.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0028par0244	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0027par0245	Dear lawmakers, the General Directorate of the Foundations also serves our nation in the pandemic process we are in. In this context, the Foundation Gureba Hospital also provides all intensive care beds for Covid-19 patients, serving in 150 isolation wards and 49 intensive care beds during the epidemic. As I complete my speech, I would like to point out that during the service of our General Directorate, the Foundations are acting on a culture of sharing and living together, regardless of differences, without opinions or differences. I offer my thanks to all employees of our General Directorate of Foundations, especially the General Manager, engineer and all workers, for their efforts to maintain care, repair and restoration of the foundation under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, for its support, social assistance and support, for its non-interruption investments, cultural activity, service and measures to protect our cultural heritage. I wish you all the best for our country, for our nation, for the year 2021. I salute you with love.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0029par0249	Mr. Mehmet Erdogan, Gaziantep MP. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0030par0252	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on behalf of the valued MPs, the head of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021. I salute your high council and our beloved nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In 1991, the TİKA was established to establish dialogue, cultural and educational development based on the dissolution of the Soviet Union of Socialist Republics, both our relatives in the Caucasus and the Balkans, both because of our friendship in the Turkish world and our friendship in that region. Of course, in addition to the Balkans and Caucasus, it is a charitable Turkish organisation that operates in about 170 countries, which extends to the Middle East, Africa, Asia, Latin America. In 1992, TİKA was established under the State Department, and in 1999 it was linked to the Prime Minister and is currently operating under the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. Of course, unlike the imperial countries, the state of the Republic of Turkey had taken help, support, to 170 countries, at the point where the geography of that region, its people needed it, and its people had taken possession of its people. One of them is that when we went to Turkmenistan with our President in 2008, I observed that TİKA (TİKA) had introduced the gaziantep nut there, showed how the chick's plant was made, how it was made. We went from there to Mongolia with Mr. Hayati Printer Minister. There was a great deal of activity by TİKA (TİKA). In 2005, when the Prime Minister of the day, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, visited the Orhun Scrolls about 46 to 50km away near Karakorum, he saw that the monuments from the turtle fresquests had been taken away, and he instructed TİKA to do so. In 2008, at the Museum of Orhun Abideleans, we were given the opportunity to open the magnificent works of the wise Khan, and of the Ash Tigin. We opened the wise Khan's Black Path. Of course, Turkey, the Republic's state didn't just stay with them. Turkey has become a model of other countries' development experiences from international relations to economics, art to sociology, making effective decisions and taking the right steps. Co-ordinated by its political, social and technical infrastructure on a regional scale and on a number of world scale projects, TİKA will continue to work independently around the world and will continue to deliver the sincerity and charity of Turkish people to countries that are at a different level of development with functional projects, language, religion, race. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The TİKA, which will continue to be with the underdogs in 2021, will continue its activities to strengthen the infrastructure of cultural facilities, continue its mission to unite countries and geographys in common denominators in a world where peace, peace and prosperity and prosperity have passed without development and development co-operation. 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal wishes well, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0031par0261	Mr. Zafer Seçekaya, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Seçekaya.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0032par0264	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have made a commitment on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, which is part of the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal, and I respectfully salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. The head of Turkish nationals, Turkish culture, and Turkish-speaking institutions, the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, has made it his goal to live the legacy of our ancient civilization with services, activities and organizations from the day it was founded. Our president and leader, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is greater than the world's 5... the attitude and courage of the world to us than the world's eyes.... is a challenge inherited from our civilization and our profession. On the one hand, the world is greater than the 5th. On the other hand, as Turkey, wherever it lives in the world, we are rightly proud to show that our citizens are our red lines in our time of power. Members of parliament, about 60 years ago, our citizens began to emigrate to various countries, particularly Germany, and today form a diaspora community of 7 million people worldwide. The President of Turkish and Relative Community abroad supports the activities of our citizens in all social and political areas in the countries in which they live, while keeping the right violations of our people living abroad on the agenda. The OHR, which performs important tasks in protecting the cultural identity of young generations, is also signing good activities to keep our human's sense of belonging to Turkey alive. The OHR, which has shown itself in support and project-based programmes such as native language domination, education and cultural trips to the homeland, professionalisation, reporting, monitoring and citizen meetings in civil society, has contributed substantially to our country's diaspora in ten years. So far, I'd like to express with great pleasure that 9,000 of our young people from different countries, who have been born and have continued their academic studies abroad, have come to our country by joining programs such as the Diaspora Youth Academy, the Young Leaders, the OHR Youth Meeting, which is organised by the OHR. As part of the Cultural Movement Programme for our generation abroad, we have a total of 7,188 young people involved in the Kölebi Anatolian Cultural Travel Program. Ahmet Hamdi Tanpınar answers to a Western character who talks about rising and muffled, saying: "Yes, we will rise, but on what? What are we going to step on? Where can we place our foot firmly? Dear friends, our values are our history, our language, and our civilization. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Members of parliament, as Abdurrahim Karakoc expressed in a poem by brother Karakoc, while flowers bloom in the home of the hands, who has drawn this border to my heart/ narrow, my wardrobe. As part of his words, the OHR continues to work closely with people, institutions and organizations who live in our heart geography. Our OHR presidency has developed thematic programmes in order to strengthen Turkey's contact with our brothers and sisters, who have deep ties to our country's historical, religious, political, geographical and cultural interests, to preserve our common heritage and to contribute to the education of our brothers and sisters. In 2019 and 2020, a series of reminiscence programmes were organised to celebrate important common days, such as the brothers and the Nevruz that our country shared, and to commemorate the ancient Crimean Tatar exile, the Ahjika exile, and the mandatory migration of Bulgaria. Precious lawmakers, one of the most important factors in the international integration of our country's universities in recent years is international students who have come to study from many different parts of the world.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0033par0274	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0032par0275	As part of the OHR Turkey scholarships, which have become a brand in this area, more than 15,000 international students from 140 countries are currently studying at 118 universities, teaching in 68 different cities. When these students return to their country or work in international institutions, they will be our country's willing ambassadors, telling of us, our language, our civilization, our culture. Dear lawmakers, I hereby congratulate the esteemed President of the President of the Foreign Turkish and Relative Communitys and all their staff for their work, and wish our country and our nation the best budget of 2021.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0033par0278	Mr. Halil Özşavlı, Şanlıurfa MP. Here you go, Mr. Self-Aid.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0034par0281	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation, who are watching us on their screens. The Ataturk Institute for Culture, Language and History and the President of the Ataturk Research Centre within this institution have made a commitment to the budgets of the President of the Ataturk Cultural Centre. Before I begin my words, I wish that the budget of 2021 would be good for our country, for our country, for all our martyrs who have sacrificed their lives for our country, and for all our veterans, I salute them. Members of parliament are mainly four institutions of Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute; these are Ataturk Research Centre, Ataturk Cultural Centre, Turkish Language Foundation and Turkish Historical Institution. The Institute of Ataturk Culture, Language and History was founded in 1983 with Law 2876, which I will then refer to as the High Institution. It was redacted on October 11, 2011, under the Constitution 664. Among the objectives of the High Institution and its presidential establishment are important issues such as strengthening social integrity and solidarity around national cultural and common values, protecting and developing cultural wealth and diversity, taking over our cultural heritage abroad and abroad, preventing corruption in Turkish and alienation, developing historical and cultural consciousness. These studies are run by four institutions whose name I mention, while the High Institution provides coordination and co-ordination among these institutions. To briefly mention the work of other institutions within the High Institution and this Institution in 2020, we see that efforts to boost support and participation in Turkish language, history and culture have been continued; protocols have been signed with many institutions. For example, the protocol for preparing and publishing valuable historical and cultural artifacts as a joint publication between the Turkish Writers' Foundation and the Turkish Institute for Writing and the Turkish Institute of Sciences; the protocol signed between the Centre for Research on Cultural Beings abroad in Uzbekistan and the Turkish Language Foundation; the protocol signed between Turkey's Justice Academy and Turkey's Maarif Foundation and the High Institution of Higher Institutions can be given an example of the protocol on how to use test data signed between the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Location, again, and all institutions under the High Kurum. An important part of the work carried out by the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute and other institutions, are important scientific events such as tens of symposiums, workshops and conferences each year; hundreds of academics -- domestic and foreign -- participate in these events. As a result of these events, information, results, are published in dozens of book-long publications, so information is included. In 2020, more than 50 ▪ scientific activities were conducted, and 137 works were published. The works, which will be published in 2021, are planned to exceed 242. The Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History and its institutions not only do research on social and human matters, but also provide jobs for our young people, providing them scholarship opportunities. While licensing scholarships vary according to the student's success and preference order, the master's scholarship is between £1,500 and $2,000 per month, while the doctoral scholarship is £3,000 per month. In this minvalde, a total of 683 people were granted scholarships by the High Institution and its institutions in 2020, with a license of 328, a master's degree of 137, and a doctorate of 213.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0035par0291	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0034par0292	Other than that, there are 17 languages -- including Armenian and Kurdish -- in the area of... I'm proud to say this, and I said this last year: we have come from a Turkish speech where Kurdish is forbidden, where higher education and PhD programmes are opened today -- although starting this year -- can be granted a thousand-dollar scholarship per month to students who have chosen Kurdish literature as their 1st choice. Dear MPs, I say alhamdulillah. As I finish, the General Assembly salutes, I wish the budget of 2021 to be a blessing to our country, to our state.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0035par0295	Mr. Mustafa Levent Karahocagil, MP of Amasya. Here you go, Mr. Karahocagil.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0036par0298	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group to discuss the budgets for the Turkish Historical Foundation and the Turkish Language Foundation for 2021. I salute your high council with love and respect. The Turkish Historical Society and the Turkish Language Association are our institutions founded by the directives of Ataturk. When we looked at the Turkish Historical Society, it was formed as a Turkish History Committee on 28 April 1930 to study Turkish history and civilization scientifically; in the following years, it was renamed the Turkish Historical Association of Tedkik on 15 April 1931, and the Turkish Historical Society on 3 October 1935. The 1982 Constitution and the Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History were established, and 4 Institutions, including the Ataturk Research Centre, Ataturk Cultural Centre, Turkish Historical Foundation and Turkish Language Foundation, were merged. When we look at the Turkish Historical Society's field, we can classify Turkish history as scientific study, scientific publications, scientific meetings such as study, symposium, and scholarship support for graduate school, graduate school, PhD students. In 2020, there are 62 scientific excavation projects supported by the Turkish Historical Society, which contribute to Turkish archeology. In 2021, 35 more excavations and surface research projects will be supported. In 2020, the Turkish Historical Association conducted eight scientific events that it singlely and jointly organised or supported. In order to prevent and reduce the effects of the Covid-19 outbreak, activities planned by our institution since the second half of March have been cancelled. These meetings, of course, are very important. From abroad and abroad, academics from all over the world present articles they have written to the Turkish Historical Foundation to pass through an arbitrator filter before their notifications; it is accepted, presented to the relevant history and place of the symposium. These meetings contribute both to science and contribute to our country's promotion. The academics from abroad meet the beauty of our country. As we look at the publications, 54 works were published by the Turkish Historical Society in 2020, including 26 new publications, 26 similar editions and 2-period publications. In 2021, a total of 73 works are planned to be published, including 52 new publications, 18 identical editions and 3 continuous publications. In 2020, a total of 452 scholarships were provided by the Turkish Historical Association, including 202 licenses, 86 master's, 159 Ph.D.s and 5 Ph.D.s. In 2021, 1.092 people are scheduled to receive scholarships, including 803 licenses, 89 master's, 195 Ph.D.s and 5 Ph.D.s. There are also foreign research scholarships, which we call postdoctora. When we look at the Turkish Language Foundation, it has similar studies. In 1932, it was founded to reveal the beauty and wealth of Turkish language and to bring it to the height worthy of its value among the earth's languages. The Turkish Language Research Agency was named after the Turkish Language Foundation in 1934, and the Turkish Language Foundation in 1936. Scientific publications, scientific projects, such as the Turkish Historical Foundation, are also involved in the Turkish Language Foundation's publications. Similar amounts of scholarships are granted by the Turkish Language Association to Turkish candidates. In this context, 29 new publications were published by the Turkish Language Foundation in 11 months of 2020, 56 identical editions; 85 books, 16 continuous publications and 2 dictionaries. A total of 103 publications have been published, and the number of works in print is 105. In 2020, due to the risk of the Covid-19 epidemic in terms of public health and public order, the Institution carried out its scientific activities by teleconference in order to maintain physical distance and control the rate of spread of the disease.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0037par0307	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0036par0308	In this context, 31 scientific events were organised during the 11 months of 2020. It's a scholarship that I find very valuable to invest in the future, which I care about. In 2020, 219 students received financial support, including 126 licenses, 47 master's and 46 Ph.D.s. In 2021, 930 other students will receive scholarships, including 780 licenses, 75 master's and 75 PhD students. As I end my words, I wish you all the best in the 2021 budget for our country, our nation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0038par0312	On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the final speaker is Nevşehir MP Mustafa Begöz. Here you go, Mr. Smarty-pants.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0039par0315	The head of every charity is in the name of God. Mr. President, I salute you with respect, with love, with conversation. Every inch of this paradise's land is beautiful and precious. This paradise has such a rare place in the world that the common heritage of mankind is Cappadocia, Nevşehir, with its unique nature, its culture, and its peace toward man, without rivals. What every human being wants to see, what he sees, what he admires, and what he wants to see again, is a great story, a great place where he discovers new things every time he comes along. Here is the President of Cappadocia with Law 7174, dated May 23, 2019, to protect and protect all these beautyes, to better promote, enrich the diversity of destination, to improve the investment climate, to increase sporting activities. In the meantime, I owe my gratitude to our president, our Minister of Culture and Tourism, our AK PARTY Group, and to all of our MPs, on behalf of myself and my city. The field presidency quickly began its activities by establishing its organization structure and commissions; in October 2019, the first commission was met, and there were about 30 commission meetings. He has settled on nearly 700 things that have been waiting and have made up nearly 2,000 correspondence. In many cases, regulations have been laid down, especially by detecting unauthorized practices that disturb our people in the region. Members of parliament, the pandemic period that swept the world has especially affected the tourism sector. In 2019, the number of tourists was 1.5 billion and the income was 1.5 trillion dollars. This year, the loss of the world's tourism trade is $1 trillion. Of course, this has affected our tourism, our state has taken the necessary measures to prevent this loss -- in this case -- loan programmes for tourism businesses, the absence of administrative fines for booking cancellations, the postponement of rent payments, safe tourism certification programmes. My fellow lawmakers, in the post-pandemic period, tourism will have a new understanding; hygiene, health, non-crowded, low-contact service will have an axis. It will adapt to Cappadoc as quickly as possible because both the hotel concepts and the tourist knowledge of our local people are ready for this. Especially in July, August, September and October, when the pandemic process eased, Cappadocia spent nearly 70 per cent of its weekends within 100 per cent of the week. Which means we're hoping for a tourist explosion in Cappadocia, after the pandemic. Already the reservations for March, April, even summer are being filled. We know Cappadocia will be the engine of Turkish tourism. With the level of education and income of our guests arriving, it is still capadocia, which will contribute the most to the Turkish economy. Investment in the region has earned 10 to 1... and we believe that Cappadocia has a 40 per cent contribution to both the number of tourists and the Turkish economy. With the help of our ministry, our Alan presidency, and all our citizens, I hope we'll move these rates even higher. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Kayaşehir, the largest underground city in the world, and the slope settlement of Nevşehir, is a new destination for our region and our country, a great place to be seen. Again, our central Virgin Mary Church and the Ottoman works of Nevşehir awaits our guests. With the three Bellas, with the castle of Middlehisar, with another setting of the evening sun, with the Redjuice, with the Passand, with Mustafapaşa, with the Gomeda Valley, with the land's worth Ürgub.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0040par0324	Invite him over, brother.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0041par0325	Avanos, what happened, Avanos?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0039par0326	Avanos is the center of the arts with the Pashabags, whom the land has become art in capable hands, and which Redirmak has greenened, and the valley of Devint and Zelve. With 100 degrees of healing water, the number of beds and hotels in Turkey will be thermal paradise and hopefully soon to become a greenhouse center, our warm-blooded people are our town of Kozaklı. The common value of humanity and our nation, our embodiment of love, tolerance and peace, Haci Bektas Veli's home is Hadjibektaş district. The Rock of Mushrooms, the House of Open Saray, the Scrolls of Sivasah, the Mosque of Karavezir, and its churches, the city of Roses and Roses, with its roselike peoples, whom the Redshirmak had made merry. The city of the underworld, with its churches, with its potatoes, with its beans, with its well deep, but with its hearts rich, is our Deepkuyu. Our industrial district, which sends our guests off, which contributes a great deal to the development of our Nevşehir, Islam, and the records that show their love for our President in every election, and the record-voting record-voting district of Yazgöl. It's the most important tourist city in the world with many towns and villages that I can't even count, with potatoes, beets, dry beans, wheat, grapes, pumpkin seeds.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0042par0334	Let's finish it, please. If you invite all the MPs, I'll give you a little more time.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0039par0336	Give me three more minutes and I'll invite them all, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0042par0337	We'll give it to you, okay.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0039par0338	The newly opened Niğde-Nevşehir-Ankara Highway is our ancient city of Nevşehir, an industrial city with airports and fast trains. Our esteemed deputies, many of our elders, many of our ministers, many of our deputies, have invited our friends into the region, many of them have responded to our invitations, and when they arrived, they said it was even more perfect than we had imagined, hoped, and described. Thus, we have neither the strength nor the ability to describe Cappadocia. We'll come to Cappadocia, we'll see, we'll live and we'll be amazed. I invite all of you, all of our fellow MPs and all of our fellow citizens, all of our guests, God willing. May our 2021 budget be a blessing and a blessing.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0043par0341	Name it, name it. We're waiting on this date. Call it.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0044par0342	We're coming, Mustafa, we're coming.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0039par0343	I'm waiting for all our friends. This budget is the budget of Turkey, of our beloved nation, of the blessed and fortunate Islamic geography and of the victim geography staring at Turkey. I salute the High Council, our General Assembly, and my entire nation with respect and conversation, and I hope everyone else.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0045par0347	In the first round, the talks for the AK PARTY Group are complete. Mr. Altay, you have a statement to make. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0046par0352	Mr. President, we'd like to thank AK PARTY MP Mustafa Bey. His colleague, Nevşehir MP Faruk Sarıaslan, was not present today due to health problems. Mr. Faruk was going to have a similar conversation. Cappadocia is all of us, Nevville is all of us. Thank you for all the beautiful things he deserves. Because of our Faruk Sarıaslan MP, Covid, he won't be able to make the Cappadocia speech today, so I thought I'd present it. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit01spe0047par0356	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0047par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly. 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The Central Management Final Account for Public Control Agency 2019 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2019 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Radio and Television Oversight 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2021 2) General Directorate of State Theatres 2019 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY WRITTEN PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Agency 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2021 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account YURTISHI ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, 2021 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Research Center 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Language Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Historical Institution Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Historical Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Cappadocia Field President's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Cappadocia Field President 2019 Central Management Final Account We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. The commission is in place. On behalf of the Good PARTY Group in round one, we move on to the speeches. Our first speaker is Enez Kaplan, Tekirdağ MP. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0048par0069	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI Group in the part of the 2021 Central Management Budget Proposal and 2019 Central Management Computing Law Proposal on Turkey's Grand National Assembly and Public Control Agency. I salute the Veteran Assembly. I'd like to address from here the injustice of working staff in the budget of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. One of the main tasks of the Public Control Agency is to contribute to the formation of a transparent and accountable administration. Congressmans, what we think is that all of the country's institutions are transparently accountable. We want this for two reasons. First, we consider it a right for the public to be able to learn what is happening in the country in which he lives. Second: We believe in the importance of providing security for local or foreign investors. Our country, unfortunately, is heading towards a shadow protected by law rather than a transparency of assets and corporations. Uncompromising and unsupervised governments encourage both the citizen and the investor into anxiety and unrest. Congressmans, we've been working on the budget in commissions for about a month. In this process, a few of the Court's reports briefly remind us that from institutions that can be controlled, we have learned that the RTÜK (RTÜK) directly exceeds twice the budget for goods and services. We've learned that the Federal Reserve has transferred over $29 million to a private insurance company. In 2004, we learned that $3.4 million, which was decided to be collected in an embezzlement case, was calculated from that day's wolf, and today the state was lost $20 million. With the protocol between the Ministry of National Education and a bank, we've learned that nearly two million TL ($16 million) transferred to the bank has been spent on the purchase of souvenirs. We've learned that the forest headquarters are lacking control of the minefields, which is damaging the ecological system. We learned that the Tea Market was built in Rize, even though it was against the Coastal Law. We've learned from public institutions that $6.5 billion has been transferred to non-profit organizations that we don't know what kind of relationship they're in. From the Ministry of Commerce budget, we learned that a shoe company was given $22m in unfair support under a support programme called Turqualitity. We've learned that TTUK has made a $4.7m error in revenue costs by showing its ability to keep its own accounts on inflation figures. We have learned that a construction company has been paid 1,000 times the price calculated during the construction of the Ovit Tunnel, and that the same company has been paid the full price, even though the bridge foot has been cut short. We received all this information from the Court reports, from institutions capable of auditing. And then there's what we haven't learned because they're exempted from inspections. For example, we don't know exactly what's going on with the Entity Fund and the fund-related companies. The independent audit reports on the asset fund should be brought to parliament each year in October, but they are constantly kidnapped or hidden. There's a question of profit and loss of assets. The asset fund is under control. The son-in-law minister resigned, the board of directors is in question. Even the purpose of the asset fund is unclear. The establishment of such funds in foreign trade surplus states would, of course, make it worth joining the country, but in a country with no capital like ours, where an external debt-based economic system has become permanent, it would of course be impossible to talk about a contribution to the Fund, and it didn't. A structure has been established that independent companies make the inspection, and their reports come to Parliament every year in October. So far, no deputy has been able to respond to the opposition parties' motions on reports because there are no reports. The Presence Fund is controlled by the State Board of Control, you say. The President of the Entity Fund is also the person who appointed members of the State Control Board, Mr. President. Fund-related companies are losing money. The situation is clear, Turkish Airlines' debt is 107 per cent, State Railway debt is 350 per cent, Kayseri Sugar debt has increased by 297 per cent. Members of parliament, you can't prevent suspicion from people in institutions which are exempted from supervision, which are not transparently managed, whose resources and budget are transferred to unknown places. Mr. President, we want to warn you, as part of our constructive opposition, as one of our party policies, that our situation and progress are not good, that you are part of the error, that you are not using the authority that the nation has given to you in favor of the nation. Congressmans, look, here's the new agenda, the sale of Istanbul. In opposition, we say that a sale was made by hiding it from the public, and it was set in motion for an uncertain adventure. Even in these difficult pandemic days, the sale of Stock Exchange Istanbul is considered a great success. Isn't that even telling us how much transparency is essential? Do you think it's normal for you to have such conflicting ideas even at a company sale? Dear lawmakers must be strictly and transparently organised and shared with citizens, with the exception of institutions and structures that require state secrecy. Otherwise, the emergence of the painting, unfortunately, will bring about the uncertainty we face today, and even worse, the public's faith and trust in the state and the institutions of the state will be fundamentally undermined. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we're all aware of that. The party president's government system failed to meet the needs of society. The system was set up to create a faster, more efficient and stable decision-making mechanism, promising to overcome bureaucratic barriers, but that was not the case. Over and over and over and over, lawmakers who have not been able to reach the minister and explain the problems of the people, a form of governance, a hierarchy of lost men, the palace bureaucracy that replaces the old cumbersome bureaucracy, unfortunately, has become the basis of problems. Even when democratic demands were expressed, a lynching structure was born. With labels, society's dynamism has been rustized. Now, at this point, we're looking at polls, but most of the population is uncomfortable with the system. Nothing that was promised yesterday was fulfilled today, and the people were condemned to poverty and tax burdens. We're negotiating the budget at a time when even basic needs cost a lot of fire. Don't you guys see that the control mechanism isn't fully operational because of the fact that the system uploads to one person? Aren't you guys uncomfortable with this? Congressmans, we're working on a budget where corporate control is not fully done, and in areas where the audit is being conducted, the judicial process is not properly run, it's free of accountability, it's questionable, it's frightening the investor, it's insecure. Dear lawmakers, we all have to think about our future generations of children and young people as we decide. When we are alone with our conscience, I salute the Veteran Assembly with my faith that we are all disturbed by this unrestrained and uncontrollable structure.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0049par0083	Mr. Hasan Subaş, Antalya MP... Here you go, Mr. Subas.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0050par0086	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge to evaluate the part of the budget law proposal concerning the Constitutional Court and the Court on behalf of my party. The Constitutional Court and the Court are our top institutions. The Constitutional Court and the Court have no objection to budgetary figures in the budget proposal, but we object to the fact that these two institutions are becoming increasingly dysfunctional. The Constitutional Court was in the Constitution of 1961 and completed its establishment in 1962 with Law 44. When we look at his duties, he conducts the Constitutional audit of the laws and Parliamentary Council. The Constitution judges those who are mentioned in the Constitution as the Supreme Court for crimes related to its duty. It is the Constitutional Court's duty to look at cases concerning the closure of political parties, to look at political party revenue resources and costs. Another important task was given by the people's vote dated September 12, 2010, and the task was to decide individual applications. Again, the Constitution supervises the provisions in accordance with the law, and with the latest change in 2017, it also serves as the Constitutional control of presidential decrees in accordance with the Constitution. By the way, I would like to point out immediately that thousands of innocent victims have been indicted and still not returned to their post, even though the Constitutional Court has not been able to make the necessary inspection of the State of Emergency. If there are any scraps of justice, which is the first name of the Justice and Development Party, these victims of the KHK must be reinstated without delay. For 12 years, 15 members of the Constitutional Court are appointed directly by the President, and 3 members are appointed by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. So when we consider the President's influence on Parliament, we can safely say that 15 members were appointed by the President for 12 years. The Court was founded in 1862 by Sultan Abdulaziz, and has been overseeing the budget and spending of the state for a hundred and fifty years since then. As part of the central management budget for Turkey's Grand National Assembly, the mandate to oversee all revenues and costs of public administration and social security institutions has been described in Article 160 of the Constitution of 1982. However, the Court found its place in the Constitution, which we can call the first Constitution of the Ottoman Empire, dated 1876. In the EU integration process, the Court's powers were increased in 2003-2006, but after 2010, the Court's powers were gradually narrowed, and for the first time in 2012, the Turkish Parliament passed its budget without the Court's supervision. And as we look at it today, the bag of laws and the Court controls are almost out of order, and they're almost out of order, which is one of the most important signs of the government system's lack of control today. However, the Constitutional Courts and Courts in law states are the most important, indeterminate institutions that limit the power of the state. After discussing the Supreme Court of 1876, I would like to briefly mention our Constitutions: Our Second Constitution is the Constitution of 1921, the Constitution of Parliamentary Government, and when we compare it with the government system of today's presidency, a hundred years ago, it came before us as a very powerful Assembly, and under the leadership of Ataturk. He became the headquarters of the Salvation War, and declared the republic after he had fought for salvation and had won the war. In less than three months, he made the 23 articles of the 1921 Constitution, and on that day the Ottoman balance collected, embraced, and prepared the 23 articles of the Constitution and the nation for war. It's our shortest but most democratic constitution. After the Constitution of 1921, the Constitution of 1924, the Constitution of 1961 and 1982, which is still in effect today. The constitutions after 1921 have secured the rights and freedoms of individuals, but we also see in these constitutions the efforts of a nation that is driven to impose the state of a war against the state of the state of the state. When we say the Constitutions, the constitutions are documents that limit the power of the state, which guarantee the freedom of the individual. In the Middle Ages, Magna Carta, held in the form of a decree in England in 1215, was a document that could be based on all modern constitutions today, including the King's non-profit -- the 39th Amendment -- that limits the king's right to tax, that states that the right to tax is the right of the people, that illegal arrests can't be made -- but also prevents the King's enrichment without cause and unjust gains. Today we come to the 21st century. In the 19th century, I passed the Constitution of Ottomans in short, notes -- in the 20th century, when we looked at the constitutions of Turkey, the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, and the government system of the presidency in the 21st century -- which is able to make quick, quick decisions today, violating the laws of the Constitution by the bag and the Constitution, we were unable to make the constitution. We've been watching pollen on TV for days, and wow, sir, some people have come together, talked about the secret constitution, debated the constitution, almost became one of the most busy events of the 21st century. Now, when we listened to the AK PARTİ, the judge of the Constitutional Court said that he shared the light of the court with social media, the coup d'état, and the opposition screamed for a coup. Look, the Constitutional Court has left fire on the President and the Constitutional Court, and the attacks. Look, let's think about it. Let's see if the Constitutional Court gets on its bike and gets on the street. Let's see if they make the wrong decisions. Now, the government's wing has suffered a great deal from this, this call for a coup. I'm saying that the Constitution of 1982, the Constitution of coup, and at least we're trying to protect it, we've agreed to it. Doesn't that remind you of the 1982 Constitution coup? What I'm trying to say is that this judge, by leaving the lights on, clearly says that the gun we have is law; we remind you of this law, we remind you of our weapon. Oh, what does that mean if the lights on the Chief of Staff are on? The Joint Chiefs are working, be careful. The General Staff's weapon is the real weapon; it has a cannon, a rifle, a tank. But if the Supreme Court has given us an image that leaves the light on, our weapon is law. We're working, we're standing, we're on duty. Doesn't that count as a hint? Oh, if you're so sensitive to the coup, I'm still putting this 1982 Constitution in your eyes. In the first quarter of the 21st century, the heart would wish that your swift, quick and powerful government could speak of the constitution, a civil, democratic constitution. I wish you could use your power to correct the law that's been broken, to restore the House that's lost its function, to rehabilitate the system. You think you can speed up the state's functioning with the law against the Constitution. However, the president's government system, which is called the government system, has given hope to one person by limiting one person's vision to Turkey, accession and common sense...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0051par0098	Let's complete it, Mr. Subo.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0050par0099	...you have to realize that we're at a point where we're at a point where we don't care, where we're at the point where we're at the point where we're at the point where we're going to take down the country. In the name of the law today, in the name of the Constitution, in the first quarter of the 21st century, you've done nothing, you're busy bringing down justice, and we all know that when justice collapses, the state collapses. Even in Magna Carta, there are no arrests without a government. We keep thousands of people inside today, and at the point where we are today, there are courts that don't apply the AIHM decisions, there are courts that say, "I don't know the decisions of the Constitutional Court." To overcome all these problems today, I'm saying common sense is needed, common courtesy, and that's only possible with a democratic parliamentary system. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0051par0102	Edirne MP Orhan Çakır. Here you go, Mr. Jacks.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0052par0105	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI Group on the budget of the Central Management Budget of 2021, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the General Directorate of Foundations, the budget of the Cappadocian Field Office. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the word culture has been passed down from the Latin word "cultura" to our language, meaning that planting the soil means reaping, producing. Today, we have come up with many different meanings, and there has been a loss of meaning and meaning as a subject of different concepts. We also have intellectuals in our country who use that word as the word "harsh and crop." However, culture is widely used as a concept that determines the customs, customs, traditions, beliefs, and rituals of the people who remain within the borders of a country and live in it. As for the word tourism, the trip out of the dwelling area as consumers is the equivalent of temporary accommodation movements to meet the needs of vacations, recreation, entertainment. In another definition, tourism is also conceptualized as human activity, which leads to a certain destination from a place of rest or work. It seems that these two concepts are not compatible. It is said that culture can be used as a substitute for tourism development and tourism, but culture is treated as a foster child with tourism. Given the opinion of experts in tourism and culture, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism must separate from each other and form a separate Ministry. Turkish culture, its art and literature must be allowed to come to better places. Dear lawmakers, there's an organization called MUCEV. In fact, this subject is indirectly related to tourism. The foundation was founded on 4 April 2014, with a partnership with the Museum Service Foundation and Turkey's Environmental Protection Foundation, which, however, has been launched for service to Mugla, is known to operate in many areas throughout Turkey. From Antalya to Edirne, many beaches rule, so to speak. The 11 sites found on the beaches and shores of the villages of Erikli, Yayla, Danishment and Mecidiye in my district of Keşan, were rented by MUCEV for ten years at $1.8m plus VAV. Moreover, this rental model is not subject to open tenders, but to negotiation. Article 43 of the Constitution states that the coast of the sea, the lake and the river is the first benefit of the public in taking advantage of the shorelines surrounding the shores of the sea and lakes. Many of our beautiful beaches are privatized by the hands of the MUCEV. As much as the Ministry of Culture and Tourism contributes to the development of tourism, the protection of these beaches must be supervised by the Ministry. In this regard, I believe your ministry, along with the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, can overcome this problem. Dear lawmakers, I would like to take this opportunity to share with you a matter that has been initiated by the Foundation General Directorate in October this year, but has attracted my attention on scholarship fees. The mid-school students will receive 75 Turkish liras, 300 Turkish liras for higher education students, and 600 Turkish liras for higher education students per month. For what reason does the institution of our own government give students twice the scholarship fee they pay their own citizens? Here, unfortunately, this painting is revealed that our own citizen is being pushed back into the background. We're not saying that foreign students shouldn't take advantage of scholarship opportunities in our country. If there is going to be a change in scholarship fees, it would be more appropriate for students to be compared to the success situation, not by identity. Precious lawmakers, according to the General Directorate of the Foundations Court report, a total of 1,319 rental agreements in the end of 2019 appear to have failed to initiate legal action to pursue a total of $24m 996,205 Turkish lira rent. The General Directorate of Foundations, which has not made any attempt to receive nearly 25 million rents, has launched a follow-up within three months, in my hometown of Edirne, which is a tenant of the Foundation General Directorate. There are two issues that need to be considered: First, if there is a problem with the fact that the owners of a business that is subject to rent are unable to earn their rent, in which case the General Directorate of the Foundation must take different measures and provide support. The second is those who are tenants of the untraceable subsidiaries. Who are they? Why hasn't any of these people been processed? The Foundation, released on 10/4/2014, is no.3, called Rental and Originals of the Unmovables. Why was the 18th article titled "Lu Generalship's failure to collect in the duration of the rent not applied? Is there any kind of favor here? Dear lawmakers, one of the tasks of the General Directorate of the Foundation is the implementation of the restoration process without damaging the properties of the era. In Edirne, my constituency, the underground digs, the historical Yemis Kapani Inn, the historical baths, the Longöpru in the district of Keşan, Edirne in particular, are in ruins, such as Genderbeyi baths, Gazi Mihal Bey baths, Tahmis baths, Yeniçeri baths, I think it's useful to have a hand right away. In the meantime, I'd like to point out that the restorations didn't do very well... except that the Veteran Mihal Bey Bridge has been restored in 2010 and has been closed to traffic for two months and has been closed since 2010. As much as it concerns the Highways, I just wanted to point out, by the way, it's an old artifact. Edirne has been the capital of the Ottoman Empire for many years, and it hurts the conscience of this city if these ancient artifacts are not immediately restored. In particular, it is called Sheikh Shocaeddin's Ders, one of the citadel mosques built by Sultan Suleiman. It is still decent, but there is no restoration. The fact that many mosques and works which continue to be restored cannot be completed within the terms of the contract proves that the necessary care has not been taken in the project phase. Precious lawmakers, the President of Cappadocia Area, are established to ensure that the historical and cultural values of the capadocia area and its geologic and geomorphological fabrics and natural resources are preserved, nurtured, introduced, transferred to future generations, planned, managed and audited. In the town of Ozkonak, the town of Avanos, on the border with Cappadocia, the Canadian mining company is allowed to search for gold, harming agricultural areas at the site previously designated as wooding, and disrupting ecological balance completely. I would like to express that in this particular region, it would be the best decision to include the region within the borders of the Cappadocian Area, so that you will not ignore the danger caused by the search for gold in the area, including agricultural irrigation and drinking water. I wish the budget was a blessing, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0053par0120	Mr. Yavuz Yekalioğlu, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Sekalalioglu.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0054par0123	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute you. I'm starting by giving us the authority to create laws here to live more peaceful, safer, happier, to collect taxes we've collected with justice, to distribute them with justice, to free us from our future concerns, from our education to our culture, from our art to trade, from every aspect of our lives, to meet with a substantially disciplined budget, which has given us the authority to bring you into the hands of the noble Turkish nation, who has appointed you trustees, to give you my deepest, most heartfelt love, my respect. On behalf of my party, on behalf of my country, on behalf of my nation, on behalf of the world of values that I belong to, I took the stand. We're talking about the budget. As of yesterday, I have carefully listened to the proposals of the members of the Group, the presidents of the Party, the presidents of the Group, the Parliament, who have come to the stand to express their opinion on the budget of the year 2021, as well as on parliament, but I've taken very detailed notes from all parties, not like the old-time budgets, but like the old-time budgets, our ability to assess is not limited, unlimited. I'm afraid I'm going to share with you very few of the notes I've been able to receive on this occasion. I'd like to give you an assessment, a perspective that allows us to talk about the budget without drowning in details, concerns for tomorrow's name, positions we can call "powervet" in the name of the past, positions and statements about what they mean to our nation, what they mean to us. Mehmet Erdogan spoke of the legal framework of TİKA (TİKA) and said he belonged to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 92, to the Prime Minister's office in 99, and now to the Ministry of Culture. In our last convention, there was a president called President of the Foreign Turks, and I was appointed President of the Turkish and Turkish World abroad. Therefore, the President of the Turks abroad has been dependent on me, and let our friends know about him. I don't think it's very important where those who organize the activities of the Turkish World presidency, the President of the Foreign Turks, or the activities within this framework are connected to the administrative mechanism, where they depend. In fact, we've been watching very carefully what they're doing in these activities, and I just want them to know that we're following a very serious pursuit of their activities so that they don't feel that we're not passing some material to criticize the issue when it's being discussed in the budget, and the activities that are being done within this framework. Sir, I think we have to talk about this in the history of the great civilization, in the name of the great glory that we've created, in the name of the values that we have to produce, in the name of the world of values that we have to address this issue, in the name of the great realm of faith, in the name of the great glory that we've created in the past, in fact, we have to talk about a lot of things, and the Ministry of Culture can actually offer us a perspective. What am I trying to talk about? In fact, in the Orhun Books, you see, when Mr. President was former Prime Minister, when he visited there, he made a non-disputed bet on TİKA. We gladly assess his instruction, and we thank him, but we are not a nation connected to the Orhun Kitabes. It should also bear the responsibility of a statesman who shares the experience of what was created in the Orhun Books, political repentance, political unity, the country-national unity, feeding the hungry nation, making few nations more, actually, of living together. So the responsibility of the TİKA (TİKA) is not only restoration, but there are many good deeds that it does in this sense. Prof. Dr. In the year Fuat Sezgin was operating in the year of Fuat Sezgin, to highlight, to bring forward Fuat Sezgin, to remember the famous academics of the Turkish world, to form a language union, to form a consensus around them; sir, to work on the academic savings that could be born from this union under Turkish scholarships; then, perhaps, to look for the opportunity to serve the Turkish world in the government; to address the problems of Turks living outside the country; to try to repair the victims of the borders, on the crossings, on the consulates; and then to report their own responsibility, and so on their own, and so on and so forth. That's why I'm not going to talk about this much because my time is limited, we're watching, we're watching, we're supporting, we're critical of what's missing. The most obvious thing I can see in the missing ones is that when it comes to Turks abroad, when it comes to people living abroad, the fact is that the identity of partying has to be a little bit backward. If you're talking about Turks abroad, be our historical responsibility, be our sair responsibilities, if you're talking about geography, there's a need for a management ability that won't leave us out there as party members. I need to talk to the Ministry of Culture about it in the perspective of the Ministry of Culture. Sir, the Ministry of Culture isn't just a bunch of riches that Allah has given us, to provide exchange input from people from people who will come to the facilities we have made material expenses, to greet them in folk clothes, to feed them purreds, to put raw meatballs on the ceilings in buildings. That's what you do. I'm not saying that. In fact, the Ministry of Culture is the ministry that has to finally put an eye on all the ministries, to oversee all the ministers, to be thrown around all the ministries, to be disbanded, to be broken, to be corrupted, to be corrupt, or to compare those signs. Why do I say that? Culture is not simply about reminiscing on the work of our former glorious times in the speech texts, but about enriching speech by the wise words of our ancient civilization, other than our own. We're talking about a ministry that has 5,000 years of history in what you call culture, which has the right to account for how much you have to say on the savings of a nation that has the names of 16 states in the Presidential Forum. What is it that you can't get into when you say culture? One of the two miners, who came to help themselves in the Soma (in the mine accident) three days later to save themselves, answered: "Leave me, save my friend, because his wife is pregnant, she has a mother waiting for him, I have no one. If you are talking about the culture of a climate where we can see that there is another place in which we can choose their own person over themselves, then the Ministry of Culture has to pay the price of the bureaucrat, who is entitled to everything, who is entitled to account for what they have earned. The Ministry of Culture is not just the ministry of restoration around artifacts, of our historical wealth, of the money we're going to make around these riches. The Ministry of Culture is actually the ministry that used to be an empire and had to answer for the fact that a nation that had sprinkled freckles on the back of its back while it was building an ancient order had to do so today. It's the ministry that needs to know ahead of time what's broken so that he can do it. We're talking about all the signals that national education has been corrupted in the Ministry of Culture, all the signs that justice has been corrupted in the Ministry of Culture, something that the corruption in trade, the loss of influence in our overseas contacts, the loss of quality, the loss of quality in our people, all of which have actually become mufasal. Culture actually gets stronger, culture gets stronger, culture gets bigger, culture gets worse, culture gets loose, culture falls apart, culture falls apart, and culture falls apart. So, if there's a shift in Turkish culture, you give a ministry that's responsible for comparing them to one-third of what you give for interest. We're charging 180 billion interest on a budget of 6 billion. We're talking about the budget. When we talk about the Ministry of Culture, we can actually talk about the entire history of the Turks. In fact, when we discuss the budget, when we discuss your responsibilities, when we discuss your commitments to your nation, we can compare an entire ministry to the human body, all your ministries. So you have to view 83 million as a body, an organism, and the ministries that will serve this 83 million, as part of this body, as part of this limb. So from the moment we start talking about the budget, what are we trying to account for from you? What we're trying to figure out is that you're offering us a budget of the services of an 83 million family, an organism, a body. What you're saying is that we're promising you Turkey. This is what you're really referring to in the essence of Turkey: we're offering you a space where you're going to live. We're offering you comfort in this area you're going to live in. We promise you peace. Here's what we're promising. Here's the economic perspective, we're offering a job. We're offering an education, a vision of culture. We're offering you a state of power, a foreign affairs that has the capacity to solve problems like this. It's the government's reputation. So it actually says: I make the order of importance, and the important order is this: I'm going to spend this much money on these pens. Where you decide to spend money, where you list it as a priority, it's your ability to maintain your ability, your ability to govern, your ability to maintain it in previous budgets. Master Erhan spoke on this stand yesterday. Previously on Samsun Mebu of the National Movement Party and the EC PARTY of the MHP have been President of the Group. As Erhan Usta spoke, what he made me do was immediately: What sensitivity did Erhan defend the budget when he was part of the political force that provided this budget in the National Movement Party? Because one of our biggest problems -- there's an event that Mr. President is an example of -- is that I'm going to present it -- most importantly because you consider yourself the center of legitimacy; all problems. In the talks yesterday, among the presidents' speeches, the biggest criticism of party presidents' speech on behalf of party groups is that you don't realize you're creating a political climate that can't solve political problems because you put yourself at the center of legitimacy. That's why I listened to Master Erhan speak so quickly that I wondered what tone Master Erhan spoke last year... Because today he was budgeting from the opposition wing, then he was budgeting from the power wing.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0055par0134	Which one is it?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0054par0135	Here's what it looks like. Look, it's a beautiful thing. As a member of the Cumhur Alliance, Erhan said of the Minister of the Group and the President of the Group, who evaluated the budget, he said: "I have come to Parliament as a man who has served in the State Planning Agency for many years.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0056par0136	The group wasn't acting president.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0054par0137	No, he wasn't. As MP, Samsun MP... I'm trying to give you the valuable side of the evaluation. I worked for the State Planning Agency. There's no planning strategy for this government. I mean, he's responsible for institutionalisation within the presidency government system. He said, "We as the National Movement Party will oversee the institutionalisation process of this new system, so we'll share our experiences with you to allow this system to sit down. He added that the State Planning Organization has brought a lot of problems with the strategy and the establishment of the budgetary budgetary budget. He said, "We, as the National Movement Party, will oversee the institutionalisation process of this new system, so we'll share our experience with you. Now, if the twin is mentioned, on that day he said: "If you continue like this, when did this planning strategy, this perspectiveal weakness of macroeconomic balances, accountable, this political climate, where transparency, the ability to be controlled, can cause you to crash into the wall, we predate you." He said he was a conscientious chief of staff in the Cumhur Alliance. Now, he said what he said that day on the stand as of today, I warned you. He just didn't say it. In fact, when considering the 2019 budget, he said that if you do so, you will find such things. Now, we're saying that if you don't find out what we talked about today tomorrow... Mr. President, I'm talking about the biggest problem of our friends in the EC PARTI: if you can't get rid of the issues of putting yourself in the political legitimacy center, the political jam, the country... you see our criticism of the budget as the traitors attacking the budget, you want to see it that way. You see the ones who voted for you -- look, this is why this political climate is corrupt -- you see the voters who voted for you as reasonable, legitimate, who voted for us, who were deceived, who were deceived. Or you see those who are with you in the land as though they had slain those who were with us. But what we need to recover from this political consultation floor is that we have to create a political climate that can take away the legitimate source from the sense of rights. As long as we can't create this... They ask the President, for example -- in the local elections -- there's television, you must have seen it -- sir, the votes given to Mr. Bakili Yıldırım are like missiles thrown at the enemy. Mr. President couldn't put it together, he couldn't put it together.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0057par0142	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0054par0143	I'm completing it, Mr. President. He said that such talks should be taken care of by the politician. He thought that a statement was made against him in the hilafa of the Cumhur Alliance. Then, as for the fellow on the next programme, Mr. President reminisced two sentences in a row: First, these very wrong assessments are not acceptable evaluations. He made a really good assessment. He said he was a friend. Now, if he's telling the truth about something he misunderstood a minute apart -- where his subject is himself -- then he's telling the truth about me, and if he's saying it about the opposition, it's definitely wrong. We need a floor of consultation that will allow this perception to reverse. Mr. President, give me a moment, please, just one more minute. If we had the opportunity to criticize this budget to Mr. President, I mean, if we had to say, sir, the Republican People's Party or the GOOD PARTY, they would have made such a budget. That's the interest costs, that's the investment costs, that's the employment perspective, that's the financing projection, that's their goal. Sir, they were able to do it. Would you please judge this? If we were to present it to Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0058par0148	Let's say hello, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0054par0149	I'm completing it, sir. ...if the President criticises this budget for what we think it is, we will sign our signature on everything he puts in the name of criticism. But now that you have to defend it, you have to defend such a budget by necessity. The problem is, what we really need is that if we've been in power for 18 years and lessened, if we've improved more, if we've found more employment, if we've come to a better place than where you got it in 2002, we can't talk about it, my friends. We're short on debt? Are we running low on public debt? Is unemployment down?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0059par0151	By income, by income.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0054par0152	We're short on interest? We haven't sold anything in the country. Is this how you guys got your nation in 2002, where the government, including our real estate, is everything being privatized? So your answer here is that we actually have the opportunity to talk about the budget. The Erzurumians -- I'm finally giving you my word -- I'll make a deal with a brother. I don't have this, I don't have this, I've lost these in 18 years, I've lost them, I've lost my income, I've become poor, I've increased in debt, I can't find work for my child. You have claimed that you were right on every ground he reproached. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I've completed it, Mr. President, with all due respect. The Erzurumians tell them something that happened to them, like a defect, like a joke, actually. Every time he went to the bath house, he noticed something was missing when he came out of the bath. He says: I came here in a jacket. Where's my jacket? And the bath owners came to this without a jacket.....and when the discussion grew, they were fighting and fighting. When he left the week after, the shirt was gone, and the shoe was gone the next week, and every time he got beaten up, he left a belt in his underwear when he left for the last week. Now, he sees that if he says he's gonna get beat up again, he's gonna say something, he's got his underwear on, he's got his belt on his underwear, he's got it on, and then he goes back to where all the owners of the bath house are sitting, and he says, "Is this what I came here to believe in your faith?"
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0060par0157	Mr. Secalioglu...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0054par0158	Now, your reckoning will be that of your people: 'Is this the way you take this nation?' My respects to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0060par0161	Mr. Aylin Brave, Isparta Congressman... Here you go, Mr. Brave.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0061par0164	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I'm going to speak on behalf of the OK PARTI Group on behalf of the Radio and Television Oversight, the State Opera and Ballet General Directorate and the budget of 2021 of the State Theatres. Every year in my budget speech, I make it clear that the right to budget is not necessary for democracy, and that's what I'm going to start today, because since we've been talking about it since yesterday, we've been attacked by representatives of the power wing, when we're supposed to answer that question, where are the taxes of the citizens going? We're discussing the budget here, and on their behalf, we're going to ask you, "Where do taxes go?" And you're going to tell them. If you can't tell, we can't tell. You have no business here where you say you are. Unfortunately, the new system now has two budgets in Turkey. One of them is spoken here, the other is left to the preferential of political authority, without legal supervision, without budgets. They're connected to the President, outside the Court and the Public Contraction Act, like the Entity Fund. We're interviewing and voting with the ministers who are responsible for their position, and we're voting here, and we're voting incompetently. It's incompatible in the sense of making public complaints, and it's not the public's concern. Now, today, I'm going to stay in this system and ask questions, and I'm going to give their answers to the public so that they can come to the polls for today's account when it's addressed to the will of a citizen. Now, last year, I asked you, do you have a higher level of power in the budget? We saw it in a year, and it didn't exist. Now, you say that the people brought us, and we do what we want. The press is actually the fourth secret force in the separation of forces, and it is possible for our citizens to make their democratic choices right with the independent and effective work of this fourth power. RTÜK is actually an upper body to protect these values and make democracy work. The RTÜK tasked with organizing radio, television and Internet activities and what does it define? Actually, when we look at your mission -- no time to read here -- it's very fancy, cool, if it's run right. Now, today, the RTÜK is far away from these tasks and should have an autonomous and neutral public legal personality that contradicts the law, but has lost its independence; let alone its credibility, its glitter, its glitter, its mat. Now, in 2018, he was joined by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism under the decree of law, and the autonomy of the Supreme Council was lifted to the dusty shelves of history. Nine members elected by Turkey's Grand National Assembly are selected from candidates shown by their quota of representation of political parties. So whatever the situation in Congress is, actually, both politically and RTÜK are showing the same thing, there's the same ratio, and there's the lack of functioning of the existing system, and that's where democracy is just window dressing. I mean, he's totally open to political and partying that's running for responsibility. Now, whoever has the majority will control the fourth power, and he will be in charge of the RTÜK. The hands of the living are tied. The heart of judgment is justice, and if his brain is law, then judgment is in plant life. The executive? He's an executive order man. Now, the chairman of the board, Mr. Abubekir Şahin, was asked whether the RTÜK was doing anything by order, and there was no suggestion or instruction from our President, but if there were, he would be the head of our state, and we would give orders. Now, this statement shows that the autonomy of the Supreme Council and the function of working for the public benefit have been eliminated. For example, as we call it, is it acceptable for a judge to accept the call of a political party leader and find the right side unfair, regardless of the case? Or would it be acceptable for the Central Bank to adopt a policy that, contrary to the country's public interests, takes orders from a political party leader in monetary policies, only for the benefit of a certain group, to victimize many? Of course not, but that's what happens in our country. It's actually the result of this party presidential system, and it's just a political, structural blockage. Now, today, the RTÜK, which is tasked with legally providing testimony, intelligence, diversity of opinion and pluralism as a controlling institution, is being used as a means of suppressing opposition media. He's been overly protective of the media, and he's in violation of all the obligations I've been under. We debunk democracy with this system, dear friends, and it's a decay that slowly reaches the limbs of the institutions of the state. Now, see, what I'm saying is, the opposition media has been sentenced to 36 suspensions and administrative fines from January 1, 2019, to May 15, 2020, and only 1st. Now, this disproportionateness has increased much, much more since May 15th, and has made others appear less. Now, isn't there any opposition in the press? Here's the free press. You can call it that. But how is this free press? The biggest problem of these disproportionate punishments is auto-sensorship, the concern of being punished by opposition media, along with the slightest criticism by journalists; we've just lived, you all know. Note, though, that there are banned speakers, blacklists, journalists who have to stop arguing, are afraid to say their opinion; it's too common now. And as a result, the public debate is getting poorer, the process of democracy is being interrupted. And that's what's being targeted, and I think it's intentional; it's intentional; it's intentional. Now, it was a visionary of the RTÜK that allowed every political party to have fair time in the TRT. It was built that way at first, but unfortunately, that's what you did. Now, let's look at the big picture. When we look at the big picture -- and we've seen a lot of these things in the written press -- dear friends -- tax penalties, threats, media outlets going to families close to power, journalists who can't speak out of fear of bossage and -- owners of other fingers -- all gathered in the direction of one hand. So, like the separation of forces, the press is no longer the fourth force, I'm afraid. Likewise, the pressures on social media platforms -- we passed the law here together -- the lawsuits against them, there's no more counting, there's no time. Here's a scalpel that was deliberately drawn to democracy by the people's taxes, in an effort to establish the idea of sovereignty. Well, would the budget be without the Court? No. Let's just say that there are seven irregularities related to RTÜK (RTÜK) in the court reports of 2019. Let's just say that the state-owned property of RTÜK in 2018, one by one, should be tax-free, but the municipalities do not pay property taxes. According to the public tender law, the supply method of direct procurement has exceeded 10 per cent of the law's limit and added 2,700 per cent to 2 million, 2.5 million to one more, 20 per cent used. Now, when their frequency planning and tenders were to be made at the end of 2019, they didn't do it, they didn't do it, they didn't do it, they didn't do it, they didn't do it, they didn't do it, they didn't do it, they didn't do it, they didn't do it, they didn't do it, they didn't do it, they didn't do it, they didn't do it, they didn't do it, they didn't do it, they didn't do it. I'm running out of counting, so much time I don't have. After all, the RTÜK will recover, friends, and we will fix it, but it'll be fine, but it's too late, you're corrupting the institutions. Now, Mr. Minister talks about tourism revenues, but this oppressive understanding goes back and forth to Turkey's image abroad, unfortunately. You know what we look like on the outside? It's a country that's becoming more and more authoritarian, where democracy is slipping away. You can't see with your cataract eyes, but we're in a relationship with the world. European tourists don't want to come to us anymore in the world because we've lost our tourist to Mediterranean countries, because people want to go to a country where the information they receive will be confirmed in the press. When the information provided by the authorities is not true, the conclusion is that according to the 2020 World Press Freedom Index, we are the 154th of the 180 countries, the 99th in 2002. The Coronavirus didn't come from Europe because it didn't trust the number of cases, and otherwise, when the economy goes bad, we're doomed to Qatar. That's what the citizen pays for while you raise your hands with your cataract eyes. Now, dear lawmakers, we need you to remove the opposition, the press, the media from being an institution that punishes the RTÜK, and we need to tell you right now. And I will come to our artists, and I have very little time left. Artists are the most affected by Covid-19. The theatre, concerts, dance shows have been interrupted, and our artists are among the most affected by this situation with workers working backstage. They were neglected in the economic development package. It wasn't funny incentives like VAT discounts that our artists needed. The scenes closed because he couldn't pay the rent, the art community that couldn't bring bread home for months, and the Ankara Art Theatre closed on its 58th birthday. The symbol of Kadıköy's cinema Rexx is closed and said to be destroyed. Beyoglu is a symbol of Atlas... and our day-to-day citizens needed support beyond the logic of corporate support. They didn't benefit from the short work grant. Our artists were not valued, they were left alone, and a state that puts their artist in misery, can't be a social state, dear friends. There are many examples: Germany earmarked 50m euros for its artists from the federal budget, Italy used 130m euros to support the art sector, Belgium earmarked 50m euros for it, and most of the time, they budget a lot more in art than we do. We have a budget of $6, 102 thousand for private theaters last year, 12 million this year, but 328 private theaters are said to be taking advantage of it, and they are not known who they are. There are accusations about these as well. You have to explain who they are. Where's all this money going? They say it was set up a week or two ago. For 18 years, culture has been divided; art, artist is divided, and because you find it unnecessary, you don't put budgets on those who are inappropriate with you. This is unacceptable.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0062par0183	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0061par0184	It was a good opportunity to start digitalization in art, this pandemic period, and you didn't do it, the world did it. Let us give the future of our country, don't interrupt our country's activities, and to the artists who are our pride in the international community, what they deserve. Come, come, let's give it together. Now, with presidential decrees, special laws for the State Theatre, State Opera and Ballet have been abolished. The theatre and the State Opera and Ballet, which I can't get into, there's too much trouble; they have no pension, no seniority, no right to report. Yeah, what's the artist's salary? I'm asking you: how about the artist's salary? Can't you just work two or three months and be sent somewhere else? He's got a memory. They've been working so hard for years, how do you destroy it? Unacceptable. Special scenes... there's so much art that it doesn't have to be done, it needs to be fixed, it all needs to be fixed. So, what do we do to make it better? Now, let's not forget the people we represent, dear friends. Don't be afraid, don't be afraid of what the citizen wants you to be. Of course, you might be afraid, but when you talk, you're torn, you're right, you're scared, and I can't say anything to him, but now that it's happening, here's what I can think of. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's too short to tie him up with a story if the president will allow it. Yavuz Bey, it's too short...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0063par0188	Let's bow.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0061par0189	Now, there's a story of a lion, a wolf and a fox going hunting together. At the end of the day they hunt, they hunt a deer, a gazelle, and a rabbit, and the lion asks the wolf to share it in the evening. The wolf says, "My king, let the deer be yours, and I shall have the gazelle, and the rabbit shall be yours." And with the lion's paw, of course, the wolf finds himself on the ground and turns into a fox." My fox taxi says, "Eat the deer in the morning, eat the gazelle in the afternoon, and eat the rabbit in the evening." And the lion turns to the fox and says: "How did you learn this beautiful taxi?" He says: "I learned about the wolf lying on the ground there." I wish the 2020 budget to be good and good luck to everyone, and may the good Lord grant us better things. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0063par0192	Mr. Abdul Ahat Andican, the last speaker on behalf of the PARTI, is Mr. Abdul Ahat Andican.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0064par0193	Mr. President, I'd like to discuss something here today that I consider a beka problem for the Republic of Turkey. We have been in uninterrupted political power for 14 years, but we still have problems with our social and cultural power. Of course, there have been some happy, promising developments. The increase in interest in imam-members is a beautiful thing in all schools to have courses such as Koran, Sierinebi, Ottomanian, and so on. However, we are still behind in the need of our country, the demand of our nation, the growth of our dream generations. This year he gives a similar speech in October, saying that being able is different than being in power, and from this point he says that real power is the idea, and that despite their 18 years of political power, they can't be in power, so they can't be in real power. And there's an interesting phrase here: we have a young population, but we still can't imagine civilization. All of these statements put a photograph in front of us like this, valued lawmakers: Mr. Erdogan has a vision of civilization for Turkey, which is understandable. The biggest obstacle to the fulfillment of this vision is the generation of corrupt republics as Western impersonators. Again, the real power of the AKP will be completed when the religious and vindictive generations come instead, as Mr. Erdogan himself put it. At this point, you can probably think of a question, Mr. Erdogan's vision of civilization? We also understand this from a conversation he made in the 1990s when the political ladder climbed. It says, Mr. Erdogan: I believe in the 21st century that Islam will be a century before its civilization. Whoever contributes to this new wave of civilisation will receive their reward categorically. Those who cannot contribute to the honorable rise of this new civilization, the Islamic civilization, are condemned to disgrace. Last year, Mr. Erdogan said: "We believe in religion, which regulates every phase of our life -- from our trade to our human relations, from education to marriage, from cleaning to clothing. As hard as it may be for us, we will not place the terms of our time but the provisions of our religion at the center of our lives. Finally, near this point, party founder Ihsan Arslan, who was sent to the Disciplinary Board of Justice in AKP, had utopias of our left-wing friends in Turkey, and we had an ideal to establish Islam in the society in which we live -- in the law -- to establish a law state. When you remember the words, when you put all these statements on top, it was clear that Mr. Erdoğan had an image of Turkey and a reanimated Islamic civilization.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0065par0196	Well, well, well! You're late. The CHP had him 20 years ago...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0064par0197	The precondition for Islamic civilization also emerges as an Islamic state model. Dear friends, first I'd like to remind Mr. President of a few things. First of all, there is talk of the rulers of our holy book, the Qur'an, but in today's sense, there has been no mention of any form of state in terms of politics. So, in the political terms found in the Qur'an, the word "state" is written somewhere, in the Hashr chapter, in the 7th verse. [[The reading of the 7th verse of Hasr by the preacher]] It passes here and the state is used here as wealth, not in the sense that we understand. It is clear our religion does not offer us an Islamic state model if it is remembered that our Prophet did not offer the Muslims a caliph and a form of governance after him. The word "state" has already entered Islamic literature since the Abbasis era. As for civilization, civilization emerges, especially in three areas of social culture, through its achievements in science, law and art, to other cultures. Successes in these three areas are no longer the property of that society, but they become the dominant element of other cultures, and that's how other cultures come to be when they embrace it. Mr. AKP's President also says that despite the growing religious generation, they are facing difficulties in art, culture, and the vision of civilization did not come true because of it. Mr. Erdogan, there's a simple reason: it's impossible to compete with other cultures in the fields of science, law and art that have been brought up by the culture of Biat, and to achieve success that can dominate them. Friends, this is why the democratic, secular, social law state of the republic has become a state in Anatolia today where all world states, including Islamic states and Turkish states, can be accepted as models through free, free, conscience free, knowledge free. Recently, Speaker Ibrahim Kalin made a statement saying, "We have been told stories of others in the name of modernisation for a hundred and fifty years. For a hundred and fifty years, we have been told stories of others in the Turkish nation. It's time to write our own story after 18 years of power. And so he supports Mr. Erdogan's dream. Mr. Kalin, you and Mr. Erdogan are wrong. The story of the Republic may be the story of others for you, but for us, it is a story written by saints Mehmetchik, who shed blood in Çanakkale, Sakarya, Dumlupınar, in the battle against the imperialists. (PARTI and CHP rows) The story of the Turkish nation who manages to create a modern state from the ashes of Ottomans while fighting against Western imperialism led by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. It's a story that can't be clouded by someone's so-called stories, what they claim to do next, what they're supposed to write, their so-called stories. As long as there are Turkish people, as long as we live in this geography, this story will continue to be written and told. Finally, Mr. President, if this country were to remain an Islamic state in the way the invading imperialists wanted it to be -- I mean, in a political sense, not to be misunderstood -- it would remain an ordinary Middle East country that is still colonized today and ruled by puppets by Western countries. It's a state of democratic, secular and social law that makes it a country that Islam and the third world envy, which can compete with the West. Accept this fact, Mr. President, so stop fighting the republic and the republic's values. Stop using this country as a tool for your dreams that will never come true with today's Islamic world. Otherwise, when you're out of power, history will record you as a footnote. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0066par0205	Yes, in the first round, the talks on behalf of the GOOD PARTY are complete.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0067par0206	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0066par0207	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0067par0208	Mr. President, I have a brief request for my position, if you please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0066par0209	Here you go. Your time is one minute.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0067par0213	Mr. President, I've been listening to the speakers' speeches. It's their own assessment, of course. They've given their message to the public. But Hasan Bey had a statement, which was offensive to us. By waving the 82 Constitution at us, I'm putting it in your eyes. He used a phrase like that. Mr. Hasan, you don't have to put it in our eyes. You're a lawyer, the people who came to power in this country or the people who did politics, everyone criticized the 82 Constitution. You are a party, prepare your own constitution -- what kind of system do you predict, what system -- and please share it with the public and bring it to Parliament, if you get support from the nation, legalize it, but don't put it in our eyes by shaking the 82 Constitution. I beg you, it's not for your kindness.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0066par0216	I'll give you one last minute, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0067par0217	Now, Mr. President, Mr. Yavuz Bey has spoken -- I think he's out -- you think it's like the traitors attacking the budget, the voters who voted for us. I'd like to express to you that we certainly don't see it that way. HOW do we vote for our party? We are in the account. So the rulings and parties, the political parties, struggle to win the vote of citizens and those who vote for other parties. We don't see things differently. Those who claim to do better have made their point here, and our citizens will make their assessment. Here, political parties don't try to convince each other, they send their messages to society. I shared the numbers on the public debt burden, interest spending yesterday, so if Mr. Hekalalioglu wishes to learn from there what the numbers are. I'd like to express to Mr. Andican that we don't accept his criticism of his speech and we don't respond, we don't see the need to respond. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0068par0221	Can I have my word?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0069par0222	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0068par0224	In the first quarter of the 19th century, the 20th century, and the first quarter of the 21st century, I wrote down the unfortunate criticism of our Parliament's failure to step forward in the matter of law, justice and civil constitution. Second: You have repeated the coup process so many times that when we are constantly referring to the fact that a judge has turned on the light of the Constitutional Court, we are still today, in the first quarter of the 21st century, suffering from the civil constitution, the suffering of not being able to speak another constitution in accordance with the needs of the age, and as a whole Assembly, it is a shame, but the first responsible, the important responsibility of this strong power must be to address it. 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The Central Management Final Account for Public Control Agency 2019 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2019 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Radio and Television Oversight 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2021 2) General Directorate of State Theatres 2019 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY WRITTEN PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Agency 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2021 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account YURTISHI ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, 2021 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Research Center 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Language Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Historical Institution Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Historical Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Cappadocia Field President's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Cappadocia Field President 2019 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0070par0287	In the first round, Mr. İsmail Faruk Aksu, the first speaker for the mp Group, is İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0071par0290	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budgets of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Public Control Agency. I salute the Veterans and our beloved nation. I wish the central management budget of 2021 was blessed and prosperous for our country, our nation and all our institutions. At the very beginning of my words, I honor and honor all the heroes, the dead members of our Parliament, and the saints and all our martyrs, including the first President of our Parliament and the founder of our republic, Veteran Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Turkey's Grand National Assembly was born and challenged by the Turkish nation's will to live fully independent. The opening of parliament was also the beginning of the period when the political and legal infrastructure of the Republic of Turkey was prepared. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a sovereign nation. It is therefore a military parliament, which has once again passed on to the history of democracy in its courageous and decisive stance against the July 15 traitorous coup attempt, which governs our republic in its own way. Happily, on April 23rd, the 100th anniversary of the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was realized with great honor and excitement. While some have had to be delayed or cancelled due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the preparations for celebrating its meaning and significance, important work, which is a permanent work to describe our Veteran Assembly towards future generations, has been carried out in this scope, the panel, the symposium and so on. Despite the negative impact of the outbreak, the General Assembly and the Commission continue with measures to ensure that their work can be carried out in a healthy environment, with our Parliament continuing the work of legislation and control. Turkey's multi-directional foreign policy has also increased the importance of parliamentary diplomacy. In this scope, our Parliament has continued to actively continue its contacts with the country's parliaments, international parliamentary staffers and international organisations in order to strengthen bilateral and multilateral relations, despite the epidemic process. The activities of the friendship groups established with 144 countries have helped to enrich both parliamentary diplomacy and to expand our country's impact field with bilateral relations. On the other hand, in all international problems and challenges, our House has taken an effective stand in time to protect the borders of our country and the security of our nation and our nation in the face of any attack on our nation, our state, our democracy, our independence and sovereignty. Precious lawmakers served 51 governments in approximately seventy-two years from July 21, 1946 to July 9, 2018, when multi-party elections were held in Turkey, while the government's average life span was about a year and five months during the implementation of the parliamentary government system. In addition to such short-lived governments, the work of forming coalitions and governments, the process of securing the vote of confidence, and the crises in the parliamentary election of the President have resulted in significant time losses and instability in the management system. Political instability that has laid the groundwork for non-democratic interference has also affected Turkey's economic and social impact. The coups that Turkey had to face with its painful and heavy bills have always been devastating to our country and our nation, driving Turkey away from its goals, losing ten years. On 16 April 2017, the Turkish nation made a historic decision to move the presidential government system, which is a system in harmony with our long-standing state traditions, to remove structural weaknesses in the administration system, to save our country from the difficulties caused by the parliamentary system and the structure of the non-democratic search. With the government system of the presidency, which is a strong state, strong governance, and democratic stability, the St. Nation's will, Turkey has ripped the shackles off its feet; Turkey's Grand National Assembly is even stronger in representation and authority. Our coven has returned to its original functions, and our Parliament's reputation and efficiency have increased; its national sovereignty has been established. Since the law has been recognised to lawmakers to propose, Parliamentary will has been brought to the forefront of lawmaking. For the first time, seven members of the Judges and Prosecutors' Council have been elected to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. A powerful balance and control mechanism, in accordance with the new government system, has been activated, a strong balance and control mechanism, in which legislation controls and governance, the judiciary oversees and balances both governance and legislation, and the principle of dissolution of forces in comparison to the parliamentary system is very dominant. With the transition of the presidency government system, it has also emerged that the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Institution must be changed as well as the need for the development of Parliament's administrative capacity. In this direction, significant changes have been made in the Civil Code in order to comply with the Constitution. However, since the government system has been subject to radical reform, the Parliamentary Interior, which has been in effect since 1973 and has been organised according to the parliamentary system, must be dealt with fully, in accordance with the spirit of the Presidential government system. In this scope, it should be the basic principle to establish a commission-oriented, participant, transparent, quality and efficient legislative process in the Charter studies, to set up a review commission that will be responsible for the control of public spending, and to make changes to the spirit of the new government system, such as the institutionalisation of democracy. In addition, the implementation of the Proposal Support Bureau within the current structure is an important step, but the need for the parliament's institutional capacity to be strengthened by the analysis of the impact and similar technical support services related to the process, as well as the meeting of law proposals by lawmakers. Dear lawmakers, the Public Control Agency was established in 2012 to investigate, investigate, and make recommendations in the light of justice based on human rights and attitudes and actions of the administration by creating an independent and effective complaint mechanism in the functioning of public services. The institution has traveled a considerable distance since it was founded. He contributed to improving the quality of public services by making decisions, and he also eased the burden of the courts by not leaving tens of thousands of cases under trial. According to 2019, the total number of applications submitted to the Institution increased by 19.41 per cent, and complaints were made in the area of the public staff regime with a maximum of 24.6 per cent. In the administrations, the maximum application was for local governments, compared to 10.86 per cent. In 2017, the proportion of compliance with the decisions of the Public Control Agency increased from 65 per cent to 77 per cent in 2020. These developments are positive, but they need to be ensured that they will increase compliance with the institution's recommendation decisions and will diversify the demands subject and administration-based, allowing the problems of our citizens to be resolved quickly and that the burden of the judiciary will be reduced further. In order to provide for all of this, it is essential to increase visibility and accessibility. As the National Movement Party, we find the existence and healthy functioning of the Ombudsman's institution from our history and tradition to be valuable as the need for a civic-oriented management. With these thoughts, Turkey wishes the Grand National Assembly and the Public Control Agency's budgets to be good, and I salute you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0072par0306	Mr Mehmet Taytak, MP of Afyonkarahisar. Here you go, Mr. Taytak.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0073par0309	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the People's Control Agency. I salute you all. Honourable MPs are a constitutional institution in Article 74 of our Constitutional Constitution. In accordance with Article 628 of Law, the institution has been tasked to examine, investigate, and make recommendations to the administration on all kinds of actions, procedures, attitudes, and actions based on human rights in the light of justice. With 84,754 verdicts in accordance with these duties, the institution has prevented tens of thousands of cases from being brought to trial and has eased the burden of the courts. It would be helpful to gradually increase the volume of work from the institution's establishment, in this way, to reduce the burden of the judiciary by resolving conflicts with the administration, especially without the judiciary, as well as to increase the rate of implementation by the institution's relevant institutions in order to contribute to quickly resolving the victims. As the National Movement Party, we care about the healthy functioning of this structure from our history and tradition and the rapid removal of the victims of our citizens' administration. Dear lawmakers, the presidential government system has allowed all of our institutions to concentrate on their territory. Of course, it will take time for such a radical management system change to reach the ideal level of practice. But every day, we see that the living, the executive and the judiciary have improved in line with the new system. The presidential government system has adopted a more effective, faster, and more comprehensive understanding of the state for the purpose of providing more effective, and more comprehensive reflexes to regional and global crises. The nation itself owns this reform in accordance with democracy and the very essence of the republic. On the night of the 15th of July, the great Turkish nation, which has passed through blood to the history of democracy, and the Cumhur Alliance, founded by our nation in the squares during the July 15 coup attempt, continues to demonstrate its glorious fight against every trap, attack, game and betrayal. Congressmans, as a nation, we have been witnessing extraordinary agendas for many years. After World War II, the political, economic and international order established by the winning countries is now breaking down in every area and mankind is looking for new solutions. International institutions such as the United Nations, the European Union and NATO have been found to have no cure for the massacres of state and terrorist organisations in the Middle East, the corrupt political structures, the world's income injustice, and the immigration and refugee crises caused by them. Later, these organizations and the World Health Organization have failed again in the outbreak of the corona virus, not only our region and our country, but also in the solution of economic regulations and social problems. Almost all of the structures responsible for the functioning of the current global order in a way that encompasses and unites all of humanity have remained in the classroom. The new crises, new trials and new needs of the world, these institutions, and many other countries, described as improved, have not been able to even benefit their own citizens in the corona crisis. Turkey is at the center of a geography in which all global crises have occurred over the past 20 years, where the world is ahead of its eyes because of its beliefs, the historical accounts of the West, and its natural resources. The Iraq occupied by the United States, Syria, which has been in civil war with the United States for decades, has been in cold war with the United States, and Armenia, who has been occupying Azerbaijan territory for thirty years, has clearly had to cut off our own umbilical bond in this geography, which is a global problem in Greece, Russia, East Mediterranean, and Libya, which is still a global problem in the north. With that understanding, our Azerbaijan and Northern Cypriot kinsmen stood upright in the face of those who were imposed on one voice, one breath, one heart. As we go through such a difficult time across the border, our country faces serious struggles against terrorist organizations, political extensions and influence agents. In our country, we face a structure that is eagerly awaiting the election of the new President of the United States, the threat of sanctions of the United States and the European Union; it wants our ships to be raided at sea; it wants thousands of deaths from the corona to be reported every day; it is uncomfortable with the success of fast Reis and conqueror ships. We have stood up to them for fifty-two years as the National Movement Party, no matter who followed instructions from outside to wear down our country's coveted institutions, our army, and the given struggle for independence. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] For this reason, the Cumhur Alliance is Turkey's only hope, as expressed by our leader, our President, State Gardener. The Cumhur Alliance will live, bring the reforms to life one by one. The presidential government system will be the architect of the future of the Turkish nation. The nationalist Movement Party's struggle with those who extend their necks to other countries for power will continue as long as there are Turkish nations. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] As I stop speaking with these feelings and thoughts, I wish the budget to be good for our country and our nation, the Veterans Assembly and your grand delegation.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0074par0322	Mr. Feti Yıldız, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0075par0325	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have been promised to present the views of the National Movement Party on the budgets of the Constitutional Court and the Court. Before I begin my speech, I salute the Veteran Assembly. The Republic of Turkey is a state of law that respects human rights, adheres to legal rules, is open to judicial control, established by Turkish nationalists. Dear friends, the purpose of justice is to keep the government and man alive. We see the sad state of people every day in a land that has lost its state. As sheikh Edebali, the spiritual founder of the Ottoman Turkish State, expressed in his advice to Osman Gazi, let the people live so that the state can live. Yes, justice is the stake of the state. While the West burned people alive in the dark age of the Inquisition, our ancestors ruled this land with justice for centuries. In the trial of Fatih Sultan Mehmet Han with a Greek architect, the dialogue with Kadi Hizir Bey was epic. As the famous philosopher said, justice is a polar star, standing where it is, and everything else revolves around it. Dear lawmakers, as you know, the Constitution is at the top of the norms pyramid and the binding rules are complete. The Constitution has two basic functions: one is to ensure the basic rights and freedoms of the individual; two, to draw the limits of the state's authority and power. In order to ensure the safety of these two principles, the constitutional judiciary has been established. As is known, human rights violations of Europe after World War II have led to the establishment of these courts. In our case, after a military coup and the 1961 Constitution entered our system. Some of his decisions have led to political controversy, as you know, the Constitutional Court's decisions since the establishment have been discussed in the society, where there is no need to count them over and over again. The Constitutional Court's mandate is: to examine constitutional amendments in terms of shape, laws and presidential decrees, and to examine the Parliamentary Council in both shape and fundamental terms, whether it is contrary to the Constitution. The basis of the Constitutional Court and the expected social benefit, the basic rights and freedoms against the immunity of the law, the protection of democracy, the control that laws are in accordance with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court also looks at cases filed to close political parties, and does financial control of political parties. As of today, there are 102 political parties in our country. Dear friends, only in the first half of the year 2020, 10 political parties have been formed, for now 11 political parties in the second half. None of these parties have 45 members, but their names, logos, are very fancy and fancy. When you look at the Constitutional Court's decision to review the final accounts of political parties, you'll find very tragic, very tragic decisions. For example, some political parties have no income or expenses, and some political parties don't even have a desk chair, but our favorite institution is having the Constitutional Court audit them, of course, taking advantage of the Court. Of course, it's the House's job to find a solution. In such cases, it is of course necessary to impose an additional burden on the Constitutional Court. We can sort out examples, for example, one of these parties operates in the province of Adana, whose name is awesome, freedom, all sorts of things, so that people would like. The police raided this place 44 times, but they couldn't seal it. I don't care what he does, he's holding back, sending it to the Attorney General of the Republic. We need to get rid of these tragic things as soon as possible. Dear friends, one of the key duties of the Constitutional Court, one of our most important tasks, is to decide individual application for rights violations. From September 23, 2012 to September 2020, 285,000 applications were submitted; 243,000 were examined, sentenced, and more than 10,000 claim violations were issued. Dear friends, the Constitutional Court also judges as the Supreme Court for the crimes committed by those listed in the Constitutional Court and determines individual appeals in the removal of parliamentary MPs' parliamentary immunity. In recent months, we have often witnessed this, and we have seen several examples. As I've just stated, the burden of the Constitutional Court is really heavy. There's no need to explain here that control is one of the fundamental elements of the democratic system. In the historical process, the control and democracy have been inseparable. The Constitutional Court's final and binding decisions also concern law, execution, justice, and even its own. Everyone must comply with the decision, its acceptance is the necessity of stability, and it is vital to the application union. When the Constitutional Court is making a decision, the second sentence of Article 153 of the Constitution's 1st Article is under strict decree that it can't be explained until its cancellations have been written. But we're looking at the application, and in cases that are closely followed by public opinion, the Constitutional Court first explains the verdict, and we see the ruling in three months, five months, six months. That's not true, it's against the Constitution, and it's against procedure. Meanwhile, there is a talk in society that says: "I think the cause is being set up according to the reaction of society. " The Constitutional Court must not disclose its justified decision without writing down the grounds for which ways, how to access the evidence. As this causes unnecessary debate, it has no legal use for society. In recent days, demonstrations cannot be held on inter-city highways under Article 22 of the Law on Meetings and Demonstration Marches. The ruling was cancelled by a majority of votes. He shared a picture with the Supreme Court. Again, in the case of Mr. Berberoglu earlier -- although this has been repeated several times -- the lights are on. Of course, it's not acceptable, it's unacceptable, it's not the work of a judge. From here, those who long for custody need such things. We perceive that this is how the Turkish nation sees it. This member of the Constitutional Court -- a high judge -- should know that the nation has turned off the lights of democracy and that the nation has turned on its lights, and I find it useful to remind you again. Now, after the attempted coup attempt on July 15th, the judicial community has done its own cleaning before all institutions; we are grateful for them, they've made important decisions, they've worked day and night, they've made sacrifices. Dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing to be done when the Constitutional Court makes clear decisions against the Constitution and its own institutional code, and there is nothing to apply for, because it is absolute and binding. For example, local courts apply to the institution of absence because of its duty to prevent errors in practice in decisions made in individual applications, which leads to controversy, which should be found to be precise solutions. The Constitutional Court cannot examine the issues that need to be observed in the way of the law, and you must underline that twice. Again, in their decisions, I removed the verdicts taken by the local courts. He cannot say, he does not have that authority. But we see, Mr. Berberoglu's decision, paragraph 135, is that I - I - you - 14. I've lifted the sentence of the High Criminal Court, he says. I mean, there are some very valuable lawyers among us, and that's not acceptable. I mean, even Mr. Berberoglu has criticised paragraph 135. Let there be extradition, whatever decision is made, be the crown of everyone's head, but I'm afraid there's been some interference. Again, one of the key duties of the Supreme Court is the Supreme Court's authority. As it is known, the Supreme Court is in charge of the trial of those who are written in the law. As the Constitutional Court does so, when we look at the structure and members of the Constitutional Court, we see that more than half of them are not lawyers, and very few of them are criminal lawyers. The Supreme Court of Appeals is a criminal trial, my dear friends, for which the criminal lawyers must do so. It's not the first time I've brought this up, it's been discussed a lot of times. This task must certainly be given to the Supreme Court, and some of the prisons may be assigned. As such, the Supreme Court of Appeals must be authorized, dear friends, as a means of control and as a way of law. Now, we also have a system of justice, administrative justice, judicial justice, and constitutional justice. There are often different decisions between them, and there is no adaptability in these decisions, and there is no unity. This needs to be discussed slowly. So is an upper court of law useful or harmful to form a court of law? This has to be debated. Now, we see people who are connected to the terrorist organization often complain on social media, on platforms. The criminal court says: "It's connected, it's prudish, but it's not a member of the terrorist organization, we can't judge it. " Right, in order to rule in criminal courts, you have to eliminate suspicion 100 percent, there has to be a certainty. And so the court's decision when an individual appeal is made to the Constitutional Court is this: Sir, there has been a violation of the principle of innocence. Let's put this aside, it seems right. When we look at the prosecution, the same person, the same type of crime, and the plaintiff, says: "Yes, he's connected, he's defected, but he hasn't been punished, but he doesn't respect democratic order. I have no obligation to work with these connected, well-connected people. This is what we think is right, because loyalty to the state is essential. You guys, actually, there's so much going on, and time is running out, so I'm just gonna make a few more points. Now, there's no argument about whether the Constitutional Court's decisions are binding, but there's a reason that the judicial justice is often not appropriate, and it doesn't fit. The Constitutional Court says it is binding as well as necessary. When we look at the Constitutional Court's decisions, however, we see that members who vote in the same direction use different reasons. Therefore, yes, the decision is binding, but the motive is not binding. This must be ruled by the House. Dear friends, there are now debates that have been brought up in recent days, secret Constitutional debates; we are witnessing a study where Turkish, Turkish nation, Ataturk, and half federal system have been discussed and this is hidden from the public. In fact, the people involved in this study can't hide it, they can't hide it.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0076par0345	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0075par0346	I will, sir. People who represent the public can't lead to social decay, spread of crime, decomposition of public order. No one has an obligation to like the Constitution, but it must abide by the constitutional rules until they change. The first four articles of our Constitution cannot be changed, nor can it be discussed. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Those who hide a constitutional draft or road map in the way the terrorist organisation PKK wants do not need to hide it. They like it, they don't like it; they prepare it, they share it with our Turkish society, and everyone sees who's what. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I finish my words here, I wish our budget to be good for our country, for our nation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0077par0352	Ankara MP Erkan Haberal... Here you are, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0078par0355	If he doesn't give up, you're going to be so reluctant.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0079par0356	Listen, take your time. Mr. President, the late Ziya Gökalp, who we refer to as the father of Turkish nationalism, said that culture is made up of people's traditions, trends, patterns, verbal and written literature, aesthetic and economic products, the language of a nation, religion, morality, legal and aesthetic lives. As we can also understand from this definition by Ziya Gökalp, culture is the most important value that holds us together in its material and spiritual ways. In this context, in order to sustain our existence, we must retain and protect our cultural values and pass them on to our future generations. This year's work in our country gives this spirit meaning and value. We are very happy and pleased that the Hayasophian mosque of Kebir was opened with prayers and ceremonies. God is pleased with those who have opened the mosque and the conquest of God. In 1826, one of the oldest orchestras in the world, the Presidential Symphony Orchestra, was built in our new hall of pride, one of the most beautiful answers to the world in the arts. In the heart of Ankara, the capital will continue to be a bridge from tradition to the future as one of the most beautiful concert halls in the world between Ankara Castle and Monumentkabir. We can't thank Mr. President enough for making all the opportunities available for this room. Dear lawmakers, budget talks are, in a sense, the period when the government, the ministry, told the past years and asked for approval of what they were going to do next, and in essence, the nation's account. It would be unfair of us to try to make a conclusion with the assessments taken last year, given the circumstances and the conditions surrounding us and the evil pandemics that our people are losing their lives, while our government is fighting for all its resources, and considering the numbers of the past year, it would be unfair to us not to approve of it, but we can't. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism has only launched pandemic conditions and pioneered studies: Safe tourism certification has been an excellent work for business workers and visitors. Again, the extension of VAT declarations for hotels, motels, resorts and so on has brought relief to the sector. The absence of the Travel Agencies Association's dues for 2020 and delaying housing taxes have had a positive effect on travel agencies, support from the Credit Guarantee Fund and cheap loans from the Ministry's agreement with public banks have undoubtedly prevented the industry from drowning. The reduction of VAT to 8 per cent in concert, concert, fair, amusement park entry fees; the reduction of VAT to 1 per cent in cinema, theatre, opera and ballet entry fees; the presentation of state theatres to private theatres with symbolic fees; the rise of royalties to artists, stamp fees, actions to be applauded and applauded. It is our right and wish that the museum card application, which we care about, should be further popularized, and especially understood by the credit cards of state banks, be replaced by the Museum Card. In terms of tourism, we benefit from the continuity of support done without numbers and demoralization. Current conditions may also be an opportunity for some permanent innovations and improvements, especially in marine tourism and tourist facilities. After all, there is no other Turkey. Nowhere in the world is there a variety of and adequate tourist facilities as well as in Turkey. One of the things that I want to focus on in particular -- not only on the Ministry of Tourism, but also on the Ministry of Environment -- is that the government allows swimming and sunbathing areas, which are called piers, to provide ease and opportunity for citizens in rocky areas, and what is the purpose of these structures next to each other in beach areas? Allowing these structures to be built to every boarding house, every site on a 2km beach limites the ability of port inflation, video pollution, and our people to go to a hotel without homes on the beaches. As soon as there is a solution to this problem, the number of ports must be reduced by combining if necessary. Dear lawmakers, we have to protect our history, protect our historical monuments, protect our cultural heritage. If we can't get it out in the open and protect it, let's leave it at that. When we can protect it, it'll bring it to light, and then we'll replace it on the new pages of history. I would like to point out that archeology shouldn't be behind tourism, our culture shouldn't be trapped in the shadow of tourism; in contrast, our culture tissue should be the dynamic of tourism with our archeology, our history and our natural beings. Another important issue is that we welcome sponsors in excavations and restorations of historical sites. In the legal framework, interested firms also discount these expenditures of sponsorship from their taxes. However, sponsorship advertising should not prevent cultural value, not possess the spirit of that historical fabric. Let them, let the spirit of history remain. It's a disappointment to meet the sponsor's name, which we call a zero point in history, and so on, starting with the visitor center, from the fillings carrying the company ad to the dig site, to the time we reach it. The same happened to us at one time during the restoration of the Bodrum Theatre. To illustrate the history of the Divritic Grand Mosque, which I think is a historical artifact that should be stored in the incubator, according to the Chelebi, languages are barren, pens are broken. In 1243, Hürrem Shah, the son of Architect Mugis, threw his signature on a stone that would melt away in time so that his name would not be preceded by the work. Here, where's the apocalypse, where are we now? The decision by our ministry to raise the archaeological excavations to 12 months is a very good and accurate decision. No doubt it won't be possible to dig every day of the 12 months. However, restoration, scientific articles and activities will ensure continuity, fabricating and keeping the site alive. And given the archeologists, restorers, and art historians who are going to be employed, it's a very appropriate practice. Speaking of archeological excavations, one of the oldest of the ancient Anatolian civilizations ever to be tall, is the Hatti civilization. Hattis, from about 5,000 years old, was in Ankara -- here -- from Ahatlibel to Boskale. And it was the first time in history that the occupied Hitlers had been assimilated for the first time, called the Nesidians, where they were invaded. The reason I say this is because in the early years of the republic, it was Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who had paid for the archaeological work of the castle, which is now known as Fort Gavur, who had brought archaeological architect from abroad, who had made architect Von der Osten, and then founded the Turkish Historical Foundation with his own money. Now, the Turkish Historical Foundation founded by Ataturk is the result of twelve months of digging, paying for its expenses, hiring archaeologists, restorations, taking a leading role in illumination of the history of the Anatolian civilizations, respecting this spirit, continuing an ideal, a historical consciousness. Why does the Turkish Historical Society hire archaeologists? Dear MPs, I'd like to continue my talk with the Ministry's relevant organization, RTÜK. RTÜK has earned our appreciation for its final move. When red lines are crossed, the state reacts naturally, protecting the existence of its institutions and its nation's values. We congratulate the head of the RTÜK and the members of the High Council, who can't remain indifferent to the attack and insult the army of Metehan, the collateral of our country's existence, its unity, its support. (Applause from MHP rows) The RTÜK (pro-governmental, pro-governmental, pro-national) is a source of pride for us, as well as for the Turkish nation. Hakeza, RTÜK have recently brought international broadcasters to Turkey, creating new jobs and additional resources for our country. International broadcasters such as Netflix, Amazon Prime, MUBI, Spotify, Deezer, are licensed to broadcast one by one in our country. Netflix has also decided to open an office in İstanbul. Our language flag, which we have been stressing for years. With respect to the motto, the RTÜK administration, the radio and television broadcasts, the work of our beautiful Turkish language, and on screens, the fight against violence against family, women, children, has made our nation happy and happy. Finally, it has been an exemplary study of increasing the time set for sign language and voice imagery to reach awareness and publications by not forgetting our disabled brothers and sisters. Members of parliament, in addition to the existing cultural centres announced by Mr. Minister in the field of opera and ballet, we have been informed that the Ercish Cultural Centre will be completed by the end of the year, and the construction of the Burdur Cultural Centre will be completed by the end of the year, and that four other cultural centers will begin their project. Moreover, our greatest wish is that the Ataturk Cultural Centre, which we look forward to, which continues in Istanbul, is to be completed and presented to our nation's service as soon as possible. One of the major elements of cultural development is theatre. It's the most efficient and direct delivery of artistic products to the audience. Theatres are both critical and free of the complexes of society. Theatres that teach thought and judgment on problems also increase the sensitivity and awareness of society. It helps to amplify and enrich cultural accumulation. It puts people together at a common aesthetic level. It's a very good way to introduce you to people and society again. And so, in this purpose and direction, I sincerely congratulate our theater artists, who perform with great sacrifice in pandemic conditions, who organize special children's theatres, and who have opened a curtain in 23 counties, 19 districts, 38 districts, and also represent 21 public theatres with open summer plays. In my speech last year, I was also told that the budget for private theaters that I'm speaking about from this platform... It has been a wise decision last year that the six million-dollar support for private theaters increased by about 3.5 times this year to 21.5 million liras. And for that, I'd like to thank Mr. Secretary and Ministry representatives. Congressmans, another matter that we deeply care about and desire is the construction of one of the world's largest museums, even the largest, in the triangle of the Presidential Assembly and the National Library.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0080par0381	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0079par0382	It is sad that our country, which is the cradle of civilizations such as Hatti, Gobeklitepe, Hitit, Frigya, Lydia, Troy, Urartu, has not had a museum like them, compared to the countries whose dates could have been counted yesterday. Starting with human history, a museum that will include the first Turks from the early Turks, the Turkish civilisations in Central Asia, will also allow our other museums to be displayed and seen. Finally, I'd like to rephrase something I mentioned in my speech last year. Ankara MP, as a capital child, I would like to inform you that I have the desire to build an opera house for our Ankara to be coveted by the world, and that I will continue to be until it is built.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0080par0385	Let's complete it. Let's bow, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0079par0386	The current historical building is considered a museum of Turkish art and music, and after a magnificent new opera house and the Presidential Symphony Orchestra, I commend you to the world's appreciation that we can open from Ankara, to the benefit of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism's budget of 2021, which I respectfully salute the Grand Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0080par0389	Mr Cemal Çetin, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0081par0392	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the General Directorate of the Foundations, the chairman of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency and the budget of the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, on behalf of the National Movement Party. I hereby salute your delegation with the utmost respect. Dear lawmakers, the foundations are strong and radical institutions that have come from the hundreds of years of Turkish nation's struggle for civilization and are still effective in a large geography. The foundation is one of the best examples of Turkish philanthropy. Values that represent universal values accepted by every society in the world, such as aiding, doing good, sharing, justice and rightfulness, are rising on the great Turkish civilization. The General Directorate of Foundations is responsible for maintaining and building cultural assets belonging to the administration and the foundations it represents, by means of the conditions of the day, for restoring or renovating, for operating, for substantively renting. Today, it is possible for you to visit any city in Anatolia, especially Istanbul. The ownership of historical artifacts must be appreciated, of course, but it is our responsibility not to rush things, to give them to the competent, and to avoid making them runt-based. The foundation must be the main goal of taking an active role in community life, as long as it conducts activities in accordance with our legal order, customs, and public order. The development of the foundations and the better meeting of social needs in public life should be ensured that public supervision is enabled. The foundation must be evaluated in terms of time, and a proper basis for its fulfillment of its purpose should be set up -- in order to carry out its activities in legal and social areas. Honourable lawmakers were founded in 1992 as a technical aid agency for the Turkish Co-operation and Development Administration, as part of the needs developed after the dissolution of TİKA, the East Bloc and the Soviet Union, and are now linked to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. Since its establishment in 1992, the TİKA has implemented important projects to support the development efforts of Turkish republics. In terms of international relations, the resources of the TİKA (TİKA) carrying a soft force element have been used within the scope of efficiency in line with the field of duty. In particular, Turkish-rooted regions such as Turkistan, Caucasus, the Balkans should have a priority, and TİKA should conduct its activities in these areas in order to take into account the ongoing work of ▪ and eliminate them. TİKA activities are crucial to our state's political, diplomatic and economic openings. In these geographys, activities aimed at protecting our cultural assets should be boosted, making effective efforts to sustain the Turkish presence, especially in the scope of the cultural identity. THE human resources, physical capacity, and budget resources of TİKA (TİKA) should also be increased. Precious lawmakers, the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, have been established to address the problems of our citizens living abroad, to strengthen relations with relatives and relatives, to establish closer relations with economic, social, and cultural communities, and to determine all the essentials for the successful completion of the education processes of students who come to our country for education in our country. It is possible to round up services under four main topics -- activities for our citizens abroad, activities for relatives and relatives, activities for NGOs and activities for international students as part of institutional work units. During this period, OHR has produced important projects. One of the most important steps with the establishment of this institution is that state scholarships to international students have been combined under one roof, creating a central and dynamic scholarship system. Precious lawmakers, millions of citizens live in every country in the world, and we also have people that we refer to as our relatives and relatives, who have reached 300 million in a vast geography in which we have a close relationship with sociocultural and historical ties. It is our Republic of Turkey that is the sole basis of both our citizens and our kinsmen living in other countries. Their faces are always facing our country, and they always want to see the support of the Republic of Turkey behind them, but there is a lack of co-ordination in determining the needs of our citizens and relatives and establishing policies for these services. Among our priorities as the National Movement Party is an increase in publicity against lobbying activities against Turkey abroad, which will be done not only in tourism but in political and social areas. Moreover, the correct and beautiful use of Turkish, which we view as an essential element of our national identity, should be essential. One of the main elements that makes people a nation is language. Studies must be made so that Turkish can be used as an international language of science, art, trade and communication. Our relations with Turkish states and communities should be based on language, opinion, unity at work. In addition to our citizens living outside Turkey, relations with the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, the Caucasus, the Balkans, the Middle East and Central Asia must be developed and deepened in all areas, especially economic, social, political and culturally, where our relatives live. The policies on the Turkish world must be discussed in a co-direction and in a complete understanding, in a way that will serve to develop radical friendships and lasting alliances. In all steps taken in harmony with the state's foreign policy of the Republic of Turkey, the lack of TİKA and OHR personnel must be completed as soon as possible. As I said last year, I would like to stress again this year that increasing TİKA and OHR budgets should not be considered a burden for Turkey's regional and global leadership target. On the contrary, it should be considered a priority among steps that must be taken. That is the demand of our citizens outside of Turkey and of their family and relatives, as well as of the people around the world, who are waiting for our help to reach out. As I put an end to my words here, I wish that our budget of 2021, which is being discussed, brings blessings to our country and our nation, and once again, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0082par0404	The last speaker on behalf of the National Movement Party is Mr. Kamil Aydın, Erzurum MP. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0083par0407	Mr. President, dear fellow lawmakers, highly respected representatives of the administration, at the beginning of my speech, I salute you with my most heartfelt feelings, with respect. Congressmans, I'm going to point to a few things that are relevant, and then I'm going to try to express my real speech about relevant institutions. You know, on behalf of myself, during my five-year experience as a member of parliament, unfortunately, we have witnessed the murder of sociological concepts such as the state, which have upset my 30 years of academic knowledge and savings. Because really, when you look at the development process of sociological concepts, the monomacle process, it's always forward, we know that concepts, like a living organism, are going through this process, just as they're born, grow and mature. So that's the concept of the population, if you want to put it in specific examples. The smallest sociological union begins with the family; this family becomes a family, becomes a clan, becomes a clan, then becomes ethnic groups, and eventually the pinnacle becomes the nation we call the summit. We can say that for culture. Culture begins with the local, local cultural values finds its own presence, develops and interacts with other people, becomes a very important element that creates national culture, and then, when the sociological entity, what we call this national culture, becomes a very important part of civilization. So, where's the language here? The language is the very important cement that joints them, which makes them substitute. Now, why would we say that? There's two kinds of attitude here. One, there's an approach that makes this sociological monopoly process work backwards, and on the contrary, it's a thought that now has reached maturity, at its peak, that is nationalization, stateization, national culture process, that now has a way of moving forward, the process of moving it back to the international community. We say it loud and clear as the National Movement Party, we are on the side of the 2nd, so together there is mercy, there is suffering in separation. We are in favor of a sociological approach. But to argue otherwise, God forbid, not to see the integrity of the forest, not to see the brotherhood of the forest, not to consider its unity, its resistance, its resistance, its resistance, its strength, its just to hang on a tree and sail away over the freedom of a tree is not something we can accept. Or, in the family, it's against sociological thinking, like claiming to be a family over any member of the family; it's divisive, it's separatist, it's divisive, it's divisive, it's divisive, it's divisive, in short. Honourable MPs, why did I say that? In order for a nation and its institutional structure to maintain the state's public life, it must have a unique political speech and posture inside and out. And this is basically, inside and out, sir, from yesterday to the present, to the present, to the present, to the generation that we've passed from generation to generation, to generation, to political, decent, historical, legal, equitable, all-conceived promotion. In the logic of these values, especially the understanding of language unity, common language consciousness, and history are the key elements that allow the union and support of the Turkish nation to grow stronger and form a structure for a period of time. In other words, the most important thing that makes us what we are is the beautiful Turkish, called our sound flag, and our glorious, glorious history and the heroic advent that has made our history. This is Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who is acting on this national emotion and worldview, who has activated the potential to become a nation whose cultural values have been recognised and has succeeded in establishing the national struggle and the young republic. Furthermore, he established the Turkish Historical Foundation and the Turkish Language Foundation, which also envisioned and envisioned the transfer of cultural values to international dimensions at the same time as maintaining and defending them. The structure found as two separate institutions later became the Ataturk Cultural Centre and the Ataturk Research Centre and became the Institute for Ataturk Culture, Language and History. Given the duties and responsibilities of the boards that support and maintain the language and history of our culture that form the main stream of our culture and shape our way of life, it is expected that our language, our language, our history, our literature, will be understood and described in an international way. We also talk about the existence of cultural values, which are the most permanent treasure and capital of the Turkish nation, and the existence of a mission that must be carried around the world, especially in the Turkish world and relatives, as well as in a political fact that has entered into the multinational process. Yes, we have very important responsibilities that we can deal with with with with intrinsically when we're in the spirit of all of this. The institutions of our ministry, which we have just expressed, are already trying to do so within the framework of their mission and vision. But is that enough? It's not enough. In addition, there must be, in addition, a major co-operation with other institutions. What are these? It is the Maarif Foundation, the Yunus Emre Foundation, the OHR and other similar structures. So, of course, we think that, of course, in unity, with the awareness of being a nation, that our culture is our common value, and that, without allowing some of its own wealth to be torn apart, each one of them has a value within itself, and that it's one of the main duties of other institutions to move it to the international dimension. Why are we saying this? When we look at powerful states, dear fellow lawmakers, believe me, their survival does not depend solely on economic or defence mechanisms. Today, if we talk about important representatives of a tradition of being a state and nation, such as China, Russia and England, it's not the long-range ballistic missiles that they have, or economic powers, but the past, the past, the past, their cultural values, to be a nation, to live and live in a wholeness. So, thankfully, in a difficult geography, despite the difficult geopolitical priorities, despite all the evils, domestic and external altars, the plans and projects of the curses, we're still talking about thousands of years of existence in this geography, and that's why we can't be without ours. We can't give it up, we can't sacrifice it for anything. We can't divide anything, or we can't divide anything -- in fact -- metaphora is a little bit like that, by drawing it into a cultural, specific area -- we can't debate the black cabbage of the Black Sea, we can't divide it with Gaziantep's baklava, sir. We, the kebab of Adana, with the kebab of Urbana, sir, always regard the meatballs of Tekirdağ, as a very important wealth of our kitchen, cultural tissue, in unity; we also love and respect as the noblest of all who are created. That's what it really means to be a nationalist movement party. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit02spe0084par0416	In the first round, the talks for the National Movement Party Group are completed. I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0084par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. Commission? He's in position. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group in the first round, the first speaker is Mr. Mahmut Toğrul of Gaziantep. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0085par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the budget of the esteemed MPs, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Public Control Agency. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly's fellow workers and our fellow citizens, who are watching us on their screens with respect and love. The first Constitution adopted after the opening of the Assembly is in Article 1 of the 1921 Constitution and in Article 6 of our current current established Constitution, the principle of the government is unconditional. On the wall behind us is the unconditionalness of the nation. Is that the truth? The truth has changed, and the sovereignty is your palace, not your nation's. Along with the presidential government system, Parliament's power and influence have been taken away. When the system was being changed, it was said that the government's ability to control balance will be increased, the forces will be strengthened. Unfortunately, that's not the truth. At this point, the democratic parliamentary system should be strengthened, but the democratic parliamentary system, unfortunately, has been wiped out one step at a time. The main backbone of democracies is the principle of separation of forces, which means legislation, executive and judicial democracy is essential. The separation of forces also means control of power within democratic rules. But we must regret to say that with the final amendment, the Turkish Grand National Assembly has limited its powers, the principle of dissolution of forces that are indispensable to modern democracies has been effectively eliminated, the opposite, evolved into a union of forces. That's why, in the political climate right now, Congress has lost all dignity in the public eye. We'd like to ask the Speaker of the House with all our sincerity. Do you really think this House is playing its mission exactly? Can you decide freely and without any pressure? This Parliament does not even have the right to make the law that is its most basic right, but the framework of the laws, such as decrees from the palace, is laid out, and Parliament is merely fulfilling the remaining chore of the work. The court and the junior partner set the agenda of the House, and the House is working like a notary of the court. Members of parliament, criticism and proposals on budgets in general in democratic countries, more importantly, are the right of lawmakers, representatives of citizens, to oversee parliament's budget. The budgetary right to make decisions for the people or for the members of the body that are authorized to make decisions for him is most concretely used on Parliament. Today, however, Turkey is no longer in the hands of the Grand National Assembly. The budget, which is the most powerful weapon available in order to keep the law under control, has been effectively lost by the freaking presidency government system, and Parliament has been abandoned in its own way. The law cannot impose a restrictions on the budget, nor can it monitor the activities of the administration. So, what about the process that you haven't said a word about their activities, which you haven't been able to do? Dear friends, the execution has been corrupted, and the execution faces serious violations of rights and corruption. The legislature, which should be called a halt, is the Parliament's failure to carry out its mission. There's not a single criticism the House has ever made of the practices of executives. This Parliament is in its prime, functionally, at its weakest. There is no Parliament weaker than this, I'm afraid. Congressmans, it is clear that the budget is in no condition to meet the needs of workers, poor, young, women and pensioners. This budget is neither the social state budget nor the savings budget nor the development budget nor the public budget. This is the direct budget of the palace and the five-team gang. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers are prepared to deal with accuracy, sincerity, financial transparency and conjoctural fluctuations with at least a year's forecast and five years' perspective while preparing. But in view of this budget, it's not about encouraging production, it's more about a Rantistic budget that finances financial centers. The 2021 budget is a budget that is far from a budget to fight the crisis, which has laid down its burden on employees and small-incomes. This budget will eventually bring economic break, unemployment and poverty, and will lead to further economic problems. This budget shows that the macro-economic crisis will continue in 2021, resulting in the public's debt to finance the need with high interest rates. This picture will mean either additional budget or increased taxes along with debt. In 2020, both the global pandemic of coronavirus and tax revenues envisioned in the budget due to vulnerability in the Turkish economy are not possible. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, one of the most important means of control is written questions and research motions. Thousands of questions are being submitted, most of them not answered by the relevant ministries, but some are returned claiming to be rude and hurtful. For example, we call the massacre of Antep Beybahçe, and you return it because it has been spoken. We call it genocide, and you return it because the word genocide has passed. Our motions are rejected because we call them torture. We call them Kurdish provinces, they're being rejected. It's called Kurdistan, it's being rejected. We'd like to ask you, dear lawmakers: What do we say or do you solve the problem by approaching the problems of these proposals, not by genocide and torture. You don't do anything but carpentry the wound that bleeds by ignoring these expressions. You're returning our motions for questions, but the House won't say a word about the motions that haven't been answered in time. We ask dozens of questions in our questions, stereotypes, a line of answers. Did the Speaker ever say that to a day's work? My guardians ask you so many questions, you answer so seriously. It's unacceptable. Can he say it? He's not. Dear friends, how are the MPs doing? Even the immunity of this bench is at grave risk because it is actually a bench where any statement will be used, while lawmakers are being tried to be punished for some testimony. Outside, MPs are being asked to face law enforcement. With thousands of arguments, the court wants to silence lawmakers. Thousands of trials are being sent, all speech by MPs, all speech, rhetoric. So, what do you want to do? The congressman's capital is talking. You have to tell me what the congressman is going to do besides talk. So, my dear friends, how is this Congress, its own employees, the administrative staff working in this House? This assembly does not fairly distribute the labor of its own employees, so to speak, it cannot sew up its tailor. Our council staff don't take equal advantage of the fee. People who do the same job don't get paid the same. Although we have said so many times, the right of contract personnel to severance continues to be ignored. The counselors have no guarantees except their salary, and when they leave, they have no right to be free. There is no regulation for the wrong contract of contracted personnel. There has never been a change in the rights of the contractors who worked as subcontractors, who are currently under contract, only their names have been changed; they were subcontractors before, and they are now contract workers. Contracted personnel working in parliament must be granted severance, their rights to identity must be protected and supported. All personnel' union rights must be protected and supported. As for lawmakers, as for the Society of Public Controllers, they have ignored much of their social problems, rights and rights violations, rather than making legal decisions, they have actually violated the institution's purpose by violating the political atmosphere of the period. The municipalities have been unfairly appointed trustees, but the Public Chief of Staff has not said a word about it. There has been an unconscionable public-employee liquidation with the KHKs, and the State of Emergency Commission has done nothing but deepen this victimhood; unfortunately, the Head of Public Affairs has not done anything about it. There is a Constitutional Court ruling on peace academics, it is not implemented, they have been acquitted in all local courts, but they do not return to their duties; the public auditor has not said a word about it.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0086par0018	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0085par0019	I'm completing it, Mayor. Dear lawmakers, the Head of Public Affairs has no investigation into such cruelty and pleasure as the armband has done. In a democratic country, the head of state goes over public issues, exposes the responsible, and opens their way to account, but in our country, unfortunately, there's not a single example. Dear friends, even the existence of the institution is not known to citizens; although it may be known, applications are being halted on the grounds of the proceedings, it is clear that the Society of Public Control is ineffective and dysfunctional in its search for rights. Even the presidential Communication Centre CIMER is known to the public more than the Public Control Agency. IN 2018, 2 million 875,879 applications were submitted to CIMER, but only 17.585 in 2018 and 10.221 in 2019. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing my last sentence, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0087par0023	Let's bow.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0085par0024	Yes, Mr. President. Even if you look at it this way, the institutional budget is actually an unnecessary budget because it does not function. While this is the way of Public Control, the allocation of this budget to this Institution is, in fact, an unnecessary allocation of the budget. Normally, dear friends, the primary duty of this House is to protect its own employees from the dignity of lawmakers, and I remind you of that. In the 100th year of the Republic, in 2023, we will form a democratic republic and crown this republic with democracy, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0088par0028	Mr. Ebrü Günay, Mardin MP. Here you go, Mr. Günay.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0089par0031	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you from here and the people who are watching us on the screen. We're discussing the budget proposal under pandemic conditions that affect the world. As it is known, the impact of the epidemic on the axis of existence and absence has had serious effects from economics to social life, education to justice. In the fight against pandemics, we faced a government that protected public health, sent them IBANs instead of policies that would allow them to continue their lives, looking for solutions and hiding all data, thinking about the health of capital instead of public health. Adding new crises to the structural crises he has experienced, the government has done nothing but make us even poorer. In a time like this, they're reassigning the budget of the previous year as a budget, as if nothing had happened. The budget is to build a fair future, to defend the value of life and its values. The public's right to say and control in this budget is universally called budgetary rights. The budget, as well as the budget, has been issued, has been garnered only to the court's rights. We're dealing with a budget that works not for the people, but for the palace, for the war and for the allies, not for all of us, but for 1 percent. In this case, the palace's budget is the budget of labour exploitation, income injustice, regional inequality, natural slaughter, sexism. The palace's budget is the budget of waste, corruption, plunder, rant, not the public's budget. Unfortunately, you've drowned the country with luxury, waste and corruption. It was reflected in the press that he spent $9 million on the calendar of 2020. This figure corresponds to 15 times the President's seven-month salary on a monthly salary of approximately 3,870 minimum wage. For 2021, the amount spent on the calendar was set at $10.5 million. The trustee regime, consisting of Talan and extortion, is unique in Turkey's history only to its corruption in Mardin. You've deepened poverty. The cities we've been acting in are usually at the end of the Life Index in the Provinces. Twenty percent of the uninsured employees and 20% of the unemployed are in these cities, I'm afraid. The highest unemployment rates are in regional cities, with an average of 20 per cent and 30 per cent. In women, it's up to 43 percent, I'm afraid. Much of the population and workplaces of the district cities have been deepened by poverty and unemployment pandemics that exist in all cities, including Mardin, Urbana, Diyarbakır, Antalya, Erzurum and Van Metropolitan cities. As a result, I would like to point out that the palace's budget is the budget of labour exploitation, income injustice, regional inequality, natural slaughter and sexism. The palace's budget is the budget of waste, corruption, plunder, and we don't have to. The year 2021 will be a very difficult year for workers, pensioners, women, young people, farmers, shopkeepers, unemployed people. We need to make a budget that will ensure economic security for our citizens against increased unemployment and poverty. By changing budget preferences in 2021, we can make a budget that guarantees the basic needs of all citizens, reduces income injustice and regional inequality, protects nature, improves public health, gender equality, peace and labour, and therefore we offer the public budget once again, and we will continue to defend the public budget. Dear friends, the Supreme Court has turned into the court's legal commission. Speaking of an internal law in Turkey is no longer possible for a long time. The Constitutional Court is careful not to go beyond the limits set by one man's regime, but even in this case, it can't be used to power from time to time. The Constitutional Court, the guarantor of democracy, which is the guarantee of the state of law in Turkey, has ignored and failed its position in the first place by making decisions. I'm afraid we've seen this in many cases. Of the 15 members, the decisions of the Constitutional Court and its members, which have been determined directly by the President, cannot be expected to make impartial and independent decisions. I'd also like to remind you once again that the President of the Constitutional Court is bending over in front of the President, who has not been erased from memory. The position of the president of a position with authority to judge the president has clearly shown that even the highest court is not independent. We have testified that even the local courts do not recognize the Constitutional Court's decisions. Look, dear friends, according to the current statistics of the Constitutional Court of Appeals, 30,584 individual applications were submitted to the court in the first nine months of 2020. Thus, from September 23, 2012 to September 30, 2020, the total number of individual applications to the Constitutional Court reached 285,220. Sadly, the distribution of violation decisions based on rights and freedoms shows a 55.2 per cent violation of the right to a fair trial. The Constitutional Court, which issued a violation of the term of imprisonment for our former Co-Chair Selahattin Demirtaş on the grounds that his detention period was not reasonable, has once again shown that despite the decision that Demirtaş's long imprisonment should be released on the grounds that he is not legal, but also political, due to other cases, he has signed a political verdict, not without reviewing his re-incarcesssion from September 20, 20, 19. Again, in December 2019, the ECHR called for the immediate evacuation of Kavala (Kavala) for political reasons, calling for the immediate termination of the violation, launching an audit process on Turkey's failure to comply with the decision. As soon as he was acquitted of the travel trial, the Constitutional Court announced that the application of Osman Kavala, who was arrested again on another charge, had been first implemented, and had not given any concrete legal grounds, Kavala had announced that the individual application had been postponed. Given that the Constitutional Court has waited years for similar individual applications to insult the President, it would be safe to say that it prevents them from examining files that would contradict power. The ruling constitution, which has been suspended, aims to develop a crisis by turning it into a tool of violence, and to survive crises as it grows. Once again, I would like to say that we have never accepted the pressure on the judiciary, the executive court and the consciences of the members of the judiciary as HDP. When the rule of law is restored sooner or later, when the law of the superior is terminated, those who have broken the law on any level, those who have broken the law on any level, those who have acted under the pressures of the executives, and those who have acted under the pressure of execution, of course, will wait for a legal process by an independent, impartial judiciary, and of course everyone will answer to an independent, impartial judgment. There's also the reflection of a judgment that can't move without instructions, and once again, from here. It's been known to everyone that there have been long violations of rights and violations of human rights in prisons, and it's become virtually physical and psychological torture sites. Prisoners, especially the right to live in prisons, are subjected to torture under extreme hail, serious health problems, isolation and isolation. The worst of all these isolation policies is in Imralı Prison. Abdullah Ocalan, Omer Hayri Konar, Hamili Yıldırım, and Veysi Aktaş are not being held for family and lawyer talks, and the government continues this policy as a state policy, even though there is no legal basis for it, despite what the authorities say. In an effort to end the aggravated lockdown imposed on Mr. Ocalan and respond to further addition in the pandemic process of the current rights violations in prisons, the indefinitely rotating hunger strikes launched in prisons are on their 13th day. Today, we see that the absolute isolation of the Imralı is not an exception, but is implemented throughout Turkey. Therefore, the first thing to do is to remove the Imran isolation system unconditionally and end the violations of rights in prisons immediately. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0090par0048	Now, it's time for Batman MP Mehmet Rüşt Tiryaki. Here you are, Mr. Tiryaki.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0091par0051	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm going to try to share with you my views on limiting the Court's budget, reports, powers and powers. First of all, I salute all of you, all of you, and all of your fellow citizens, who are watching us on the screen and on social media. Say hello to our co-Chairs, our deputies, our mayors and our party friends, who are being held hostage in prison, and I give them all a hug of love and greetings. [[Applause from HDP rows]] I'd like to say that the days when the leaders of the criminal organization, the corrupts, the deterrents, were released from prison... and our friends who were being held hostage were not far away from their freedom. We'll continue to raise the struggle for freedom and democracy, we'll keep it going, don't let it get to you. Our only concern is to be worthy of our friends held hostage in prison. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. President, the most important thing about the Court is independence. Of course, the Court favours the law on whether the Court budget is being used in accordance with its purpose, but the most important feature of the Court is its independence. Is there any guarantee of that independence? Yes, I do. The Court cannot dismiss the president and his members, and they cannot retire until they are sixty-five, unless they want to, and their colleagues have the assurances of judges and prosecutors. The Court does its audits on behalf of the House, submits its reports to the public with the Parliament, but has no organic ties to the Parliament. The Court's budget is not subject to the approval of the Treasury and Finance Ministry, and is being sent directly to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I am one of those who believe that the Court's institutional capacity is sufficient with all its savings. The Court also served as First Vice President of EUROSAI, a member of many international control and work groups; even from 2014-2017 to 2017, it currently serves as Chairman of the Governing Body. Therefore, the Court has an international reputation. Does the Court operate independently against its institutional capacity, its savings, and its international reputation? Or should I say, can it work or is it allowed to work? I'm not sure. I'd just like to give you an example: through reports published by the Court, submitted to parliament, we talk about the irregularities, corruption of municipalities or trustees from the Justice and Development Party. What is the Court doing? He responds immediately, saying: "That's not what my report means. " Well, for the same Court, we say that the Court's powers of control are restricted, institutions such as the Entity Fund are excluded from the control of the Court. Then the Court is not responding at all. Would you feel that the Court is independent, or would you not doubt it? However, we as a party have always advocated the expansion of the Court's control authority, saying that all public institutions and institutions should be under the supervision of the Court. All opposition parties defend it. I assure you, today's ruling partner parties will fall to the opposition tomorrow, saying that every institution must be subject to the Court's audit without interruption. So, what's the power now? It opens a door to remove Social Security from the Court's audit. All expenses made by the Ministry of Religious Affairs for the pilgrimage and visit to Umre are excluded from the Court's supervision. Although some of them are part of the Court's audit, the People's Bank to the Agriculture Bank, the Stock Exchange from Istanbul to PTT (TPAO) to TÜRKSAT (TÜRKSAT), from horse races to lottery, disqualifies Turkey's Entity Fund, which is included in every institution, out of the Court's control. Look, 60 billion dollars in Turkey's Entity Fund has become an institution that lends money. The loans of the Entity Fund established in 2016 increased to 75 billion euros before 37 billion euros, then to 194 billion, 643 million, and to 284 billion 185 million last year. So between 2018 and 19, his debt increased by 46 percent. And didn't the Entity Fund, which has the most valuable companies in our country, profit from it? He did. How much? The net profit, which was 17 billion 126 million in 2018, dropped to 8 billion 854 million in 2019. So what happened? The profits have dropped by 48 percent, and the debt has increased by 46 percent. What are assets being built for all over the world? To pass on wealth to the next generation. So, what does the Turkish Entity Fund do? It transfers debt, transfers debt to future generations, and is excluded from the Court's control so as not to account for it, the scope of the audit is narrowed down. It's almost like a black hole in any institution that's been abducted from the Court's audit. Look, he had $650 million in his safe when he transferred it to the PTT asset fund; in two years, only two years, two years after the Fund was transferred, he lost $900 million. City hospitals have been one of the biggest black holes since 2011. According to the first six months of the year 2020, the Ministry of Health's Minister for Strategy Development announced, $2.4 billion was transferred to city hospitals. We know almost nothing about city hospitals, let alone the Court's audit. The Ministry of Health says that we have no patient or patient with surgery or patient with surgery, nor do we provide a patient with a patient with a patient's condition. If you didn't give it to me, why are you hiding contracts about these city hospitals from the public, and why are you keeping them out of court control? Look, another example: Turkey's Religion Foundation, which was left out of Court control by its giant budget. Between 2017-2018-2019, he spent $2 billion and $400 million. Where? We don't know. Why? Because the Court has no control. There are also institutions that the Court can oversee. At the very least, we can learn a piece of what irregularities they're making from reports of institutions that the Court oversees. I'll tell you a few of them: some of the purchase procedures that were inappropriate in some of the purchases of services that were not available for other public administrations, none of the accounting transactions were completed; the net income obtained by the Federation of Turkish drivers and motorists from the sale of paper and licenses was miscalculated, 60 per cent of its unreceived rent and rights, cannot be monitored in their account, cannot be deposited in the security account; you have not been able to pay any deposits due to other public administrations; you have not been able to pay any deposits for any deposits; you have not been able to pay any deposits for any deposits, and you have not been able to deposits for any loans, and you have not been able to obtain any amount of loans from the Turkish Drivers and Automakerss. Yes, these are what the Court can study and see. Thanks to the Court, we saw at least some of the trustee corruption. Let me tell you: The Court is conducting an appropriate inspection, meaning it is not doing a proper inspection. What does that mean? So when the trustee gives 1,500 people food, he doesn't ask, "Why did you feed 1,500 people? " Or why did 1,500 people eat in a restaurant of 64 people? Or let's say the Minister of National Defence goes to Mardin, the Minister of Interior goes to him, even an ex-Minister goes to him; the trustee pays for all kinds of things until his vehicles are rented, but he doesn't ask, "Why are you paying for this money?" He's just looking to see if there's a bill or not. But he can find a lot of things, even during that competency inspection. Look, I'm just going to give you a few examples: Mardin Kızıltepe's trustee rents out a lot of property illegally, rents it out to whoever he wants.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0092par0068	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0091par0069	I am, Mr. President. Not enough, the Court has filed a report as a result of inspection, asked questions, asked for answers, and the lady or gentleman didn't even bother to answer. Bitlis Hizan's trustee also made all the rentals. The Tunceli trustee failed to keep a record of commitments in the tenders, stressing that 11 million 417,290 TL is not registered in the relevant accounts. He did not account for the land assigned to the state-run education department, the teacher's office, the health department as a place of state hospital, he did not register 582 transfers from the municipality's private administration; again, the trustee did not calculate the capital share of the ESK in accordance with regulations; the loans received from the Bank of Provinces were untraceable; they were missing in the accounts; they did not keep the municipality's deposits on the accounts. Yes, the audit is good; the Court is doing this audit on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Therefore do not restrict the authority of the court, but allow it to work independently according to its purpose, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0093par0076	Mr Kemal Bulbül, MP of Antalya. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0094par0079	Mr. President, honorable members, Mr. Secretary, members of the Commission; Selo can, Figen can, İdris can, Sebahat can, Gülten Can, who are watching us in prison, hostage, in isolation. (Applause from HDP rows) And I salute you with love and respect, the people of Turkey, the people of my faith, the people of my heart, the people of my heart. I've made a commitment to the Ministry of Culture budget, and I'll start with questions. Minister, on December 10, 2020, at a meeting in the district of North Rhine Vestphalia, Germany, including your counterpart, including government officials, the German Association of Flames will be recognised as a public corporate personality, and the Alevis will have all religious, cultural, social, economic rights, such as all groups of beliefs in Germany, and you will not, you will not, you will not, you will not, you will not, you will not, you will not, you will not, you will not, you will not, you will not, you will not, you will not, you will not, you will not, you will not. On June 3, 2009, you started Alevi expansion, Kurdish expansion, Roman expansion, you pushed, you were bored, you couldn't do it because you're mentally constipated. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. Secretary, yesterday, our Co-Chair Mithat Sancar also stated that on 6 December 1963, he had to evacuate the AST hall, which was founded in the centre of Ankara, Ihmur Street, and has been conducting his artistic work since then, would you look at this embarrassing thing? From here, I offer love and respect to Rutkay Aziz. From here, to Jade Dorman. From here, to the AST artists. From here, to the friends who grow and live, to the friends who provide us with art. Dear Minister, what is your problem with these mountain goats, dear Minister? What is it with you and these mountain goats? (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) There will be a murderer from America. Dearly beloved, the people of Hardi Dervish, the people of the land of Dervis; you know the truth. Do not let your goats touch your deer, lest you be shielded from it, lest you pass through, my dear ones. There's a cult formation in my class. Let's see what the cult structure in my class is, these cults: Munzur Education and Culture Service Association, Suleymanists; Ehlibeyt Sevens Education Culture and Social Aid Association, Range; Ensar Foundation branch, Union Foundation Tunceli Branch, Illum Yayma Society, TUGVA Tunceli Representativeship, Milli Beka Association... Dearly beloved, make sure they don't get off campus, or I'll sue you. As a servant of truth and truth, a servant of the way and of the way, I will press charges against you as a man who comes to my class in prayer, and do not take them out of the borders of the campus, my dear Class. What else? Dear Minister, the year 2021 will be declared the year of Hajji Bektas and Yunus Emre. The year of Hajji Bektas, who said, "Hadj is not in the hair;/ not in the cardigan, not in the crown;/ whatever you seek, it is not in the distance;/ Jerusalem, Mecca, and the year of Mecca. We have become heads, and we have become dry years, and we have become birds, and we have flown. / In the deed of Taptuk, we became servants,/ Jonah was raw, we were cooked, alhamdulillah. The year of Jonah will be; is there any plan, Mr. Minister? Do you have a plan, a schedule, or are you going to try to avoid it with programs like high school plays? What is your problem with Ahmadi Hani? What is your problem with the Kurdish ad and Kurdish language published by our municipalities on their websites? What is your problem with the Roboski memorial? What is your problem with Kurdish history and culture? (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) What is your problem with the men and the saints who covered Turkey with paint? Why is the belief in flame still forbidden? You owe us a hundred and forty-five years. For a hundred and forty-five years, you've been taking taxes from the Aleki community and spreading them to other beliefs. This is theft. This is a sin. You've owed us a hundred and forty-five years. (Applause from HDP rows) What did you do with the museum money you received during the period when Haci Bektas Veli was open to visit with museum status? What did you do with all the money you took from our headquarters to our museum as a ticket cutter, and why don't you return it as a service to the Aleki community? There is much to be said: the state of the tourism workers, the state of tourism, the state of Antalya, the state of the musicians, the state of the theatres, the state of the artists; the situation of musicians in distress, in hardship, in poverty, in poverty, in need of bread, in need of suicide; what are we going to tell? It's called an apocalypse scenario, it's kind of a sad picture; it's been looted, burned, broken down, and it's called the ministry of culture, and it's called the ministry of culture. What is your problem with the culture of the people of Turkey? And I said from this platform, that this is the cement of Alevis and Kurds, the cement of Turkey. Throw it away; we are not mosaics, we are not cement. What are we as Kurds and Alevis? All Turkey's rights are blood and soul; one is blood and the other is life. Don't play, don't come at us, don't slaughter our values. If the blood goes away, you'll be overwhelmed. It's a sin, it's a sin, it's a sin. It is shameful to live these values together, in equal conditions, with an equal sense of citizenship to live, to accept, to accept, to respect, to respect, and to conduct this with a systematic assimilation policy, and then to say, brothers and sisters of the Kurds, to make them beautiful by saying, "It is shameful, it is shameful." We're no one's brother. We want to be equal, we want to be citizens. Excuse me, what does the president of RTÜK say? What the president says is an order for me. There are no orders in the Republic, sir. This is the Republic; you are not ruled by the kingdom, you are not ruled by the king; you must come to your senses, you must come to your senses. We don't do business by order, by decree; we do business by democracy, by law, by law. These things need to be done. Other than that, dear friends, how many of our gates have been broken, how many gas bombs have been thrown into our camisoles? Mr. Minister of Culture, there is no weapon in the service of the Minister of Religious Affairs, who comes out of Ayasofya's minibar with a sword. When a weapon enters the temple, it is a sin to enter the temple with a sword. Why are you committing crimes? Why don't you warn me? What does that sword mean? Who's being threatened with that sword? Do you wish to continue the legacy of the common Ottomans in Yiyen?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0095par0096	Shame on you!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0094par0097	You want to systematically eliminate Turkish and Turkmen Alevis, Kurdish Alevis, Arab Alevis, as they do? What kind of culture policy is that? The culture, the language, the language, the culture of the people you live with, is not a cultural policy by subsidizing, ignoring, assimilation; otherwise your budget is statistics. Thanks, you have a lot of numbers in your budget, a lot of numbers in your budget, but numbers, statistics, numbers don't mean the truth. We can only express your budget in one truth: this budget is in denial, this budget is monotheist, this budget is racist, this budget rejects our existence, so this budget is not legitimate, it is not democratic. We don't give consent to this budget, we don't accept this budget, we don't accept it as the Aleki community, we don't accept it as the Kurdish people, and we don't accept it as the beloved Turkish people. People of St. Turk, I say to you, why don't you say: "We want to live with the Kurds, we want to live with the Alevis, we want to live with the people of Turkey."
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0096par0100	Let's complete it, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0094par0101	Thank you. St. Turkic people, these people have to live together, create the future together; this is a social historical mission. St. Turkic people, you're the engine of this, you're the leader of this; you have the existence of the oppressed people you live with, Kurds, Arabs, Armenians, Serbs, Greeks, as many people as I can't count. The people of St. Turk know that he will accept the struggle to live as an equal citizen with different beliefs and cultures, and that he will make it work, and that this power will end its monogamous, blasphemous attitude, and I say, "Dear friends, let the king be our guide, Merdan be our guide, let the people be our helper, make love to the oppressed, God willing.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0097par0104	Mr. President, I want your word, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0098par0105	Mr. Nightingale, what did you want to say?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0097par0106	I want words according to 60.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0098par0107	I'll give you a minute, I won't be long. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0097par0111	Mr. President, we've both talked about maturity, about cooking after rawness, and we've talked about Yunus Emre. We've talked about Haci Bektas parents, and we've heard a speech where there's nothing but hatred and hatred. What do you want from who? We live here as people of the same constitutional order, in the same legal order in this country, and we're all Turkish nations together. He's gonna get a hundred and forty years. Do not take what happened in Tunceli out the door of a structure built. A person who has the obscenities enough to say, "Don't take it out." He accuses the state of the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish nation of fascistism. There's nothing acceptable about it. No one has to get up here and listen to those words. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0099par0115	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0100par0118	Mr. Group Vice Presidents, I told you that I would meet the demands of the speakers on their speech from the stand, with no criticism or taunting, after the talks of that group have been completed. When you demand a statement and bring criticism of what is spoken on the stand, the same right falls to other Group Vice Presidents. So if we pay maximum attention to this, we can continue the negotiations in a comfortable manner, and eventually the Group Vice Presidents can explain their own opinions about speech and speakers. Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0101par0120	Mr. President, if you had told me in the first place, I wouldn't have taken any promises.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0100par0121	Okay. Of course, we've opened a path, and now I'm going to promise Mr. Beştaş, deputy leader of the People's Democratic Party, just one minute, as this is the last round.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0102par0123	Mr. President, there's a direct assault on our orator first. A speech on hatred and hatred, he said. We want to talk about bullying. I have my own say...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0100par0124	Yes, I promise you two minutes from the stand without taunting, and I will not extend it, and I will not meet your request for a second taunt or 60. We'll meet those demands at the end of the tour, folks. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0103par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. If it's said that there's a harsh conversation about our tone of speech and our tone of speech, it's rhetorical, it's ignorance, one.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0104par0131	That is ignorance, as you understand it. You fell into the pit of ignorance.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0103par0132	Second: I have never talked about hatred, confrontation, conflict, unity, equal citizenship, equal lives of the peoples of Turkey together.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0104par0133	Tell it to our cones!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0103par0134	Yes, there's racism going on in my class, if there's assimilation, I repeat, don't take them off that campus against this assimilation, dear people of my class, that's what I'm saying. Never...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0104par0135	You're going to talk to those traitors who killed Kurdish babies!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0103par0136	There are no Kurds or traitors, that's treason.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0104par0137	It's not like that!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0105par0138	Mr. Nightingale... Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0103par0139	Don't get hard for nothing. We're the government's...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0104par0140	You're gonna talk to those who kill babies in arsons! There's no such world!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0105par0141	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group and Mr. Orator Nightingale, since you're both named Nightingale, I address both of you together. Please speak to the General Assembly, Mr. Mobil. Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Nightingale, please do not interfere. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0106par0145	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0107par0146	You'll tell them first! There's no such world!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0106par0147	My last name friend thinks he can suppress the truth by being so angry with himself, by doing... We're talking about truth, equality, justice. The sentence is also witnessed by Turkey and Parliament. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0107par0150	You have hatred, you have anger; we have no anger!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0108par0151	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0109par0152	Mr. Beştaş, if I may...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0108par0153	Please, it's important.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0109par0154	Two Mr. Nightingales have already told each other.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0108par0155	No, no, I...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0110par0156	You said you wouldn't promise, Mr. President, and I'm going to ask for your word.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0109par0157	But Mr. Nightingale, I said I'd give you a minute since you've cleared the way.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0110par0158	Mr. President, you said you wouldn't make any promises, and I'd like your word.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0109par0159	Mr. Nightingale, do not interfere, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0110par0160	You said you wouldn't promise.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0109par0161	I'm trying to run it at a maximum democratic level.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0110par0162	I'll make a request on that, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0111par0163	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0109par0164	Mr. Beştaş, I promised you a minute at your place, but you made Mr. Nightingale use that promise.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0111par0165	The speech on hatred and hatred...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0109par0166	Yes, you're right, you're right, but at the end of the tour, after your group's talks are over, I can promise you your position or the bench.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0111par0167	Mr. President, there's a very important point, if I may say so in a minute.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0109par0168	Please don't give me another pick-me-up. Please...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0112par0170	I demand promises.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0113par0173	Mr. President, let him make all the promises he wants, and we'll all make our commitments here as Deputy Directors of the Group. I wrote down two points, and the speaker answered. One: no one has to listen to you. The second said, "There is no such world." No, sir, you will listen, you will listen! You will listen as we listen to you!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0114par0176	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0115par0177	It's a threat! It's a threat!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0113par0178	So, we didn't get the right to this speech from Mr. Nightingale, or from the MP; we took it from the people, and by the power of the people, we're making our promise here, like all lawmakers, and we're going to keep building it. There's no world like that, they can't just sit there and threaten us.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0116par0180	Mr. President, let the reports go: this country knows who's the lamb and who's the wolf, and by Allah's leave, we'll give it its due, and I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0117par0181	There's a threat, a threat.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0113par0182	Mr. President, this is a clear threat.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0116par0183	Why is he a threat? Why is he a threat?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0113par0184	They say they're wolves, and we know all about them. I mean, they're bragging about it, but let the record show we don't care.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0118par0185	What are you gonna do? You're gonna turn the mob on us?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0119par0186	Yes, we are in the Parliament of the Republic of Turkey. Everyone's gonna talk, everybody's gonna talk, everybody's gonna talk, everybody's gonna talk, everybody's gonna talk, and we're gonna listen to each other, guys.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0120par0187	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0121par0188	I mean, they don't own this House, they don't own this country. They can't wave at us from there!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0122par0189	Alaattin's gonna threaten us.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0121par0190	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0123par0191	I didn't say you can't talk, I said we don't have to listen.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0124par0192	No, no, I'm not telling you anything, Mr. Nightingale. If we don't listen to each other, we don't agree, we don't solve problems if we threaten each other. I think it would be a lot easier to solve problems if we respected friends and each other who spoke from this stand. 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The Central Management Final Account for Public Control Agency 2019 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2019 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Radio and Television Oversight 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2021 2) General Directorate of State Theatres 2019 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY WRITTEN PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Agency 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2021 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account YURTISHI ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, 2021 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Research Center 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Language Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Historical Institution Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Historical Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Cappadocia Field President's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Cappadocia Field President 2019 Central Management Final Account Now it's time for the speech, Mr. Garo Paylan of Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0125par0258	Mr. President, I salute you, our esteemed deputies and our dear people who are watching us on their screens. I'm also giving my regards to all political hostages who are currently being held hostage in prisons, especially in Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) I also give my regards to Diyarbakır's beloved Co-Chair Selçuk Mizraklı: Hello Selçuk President! [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, look, we send greetings to the political hostages in prison, our friends who lived here a few years ago. Dear friends, look, Turkey will fly with one man's regime. You said, Turkey will crash upside down; we're having an economic crisis, we're having a political crisis, and we're having a social crisis. Look, there's no support for the tradesmen in this budget, no support for the workers. Why? Because you only care about your palaces, your allies and your war policies. You're funding palaces, wars, allies and interest. You're saving 10 billion, 100 billion liras for those interest barons in London. Why? Because you have nothing but a single man's regime. Look, guys, someone might want to start a one-man regime, get everyone in line for it, and Trump in America wanted to. But if there are forces to stabilize and control them, there's only one man there whose regimes can only travel so far. Look, Trump wanted to be the only man -- the final one -- but there were balancing, controlling institutions there -- if Mr. Sureya listens to Sadi Bilc -- there's Congress, there's Congress, there's the Senate.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0126par0264	You were just doing the same thing when you were talking there, Kamil!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0125par0265	They balance and control what happens in a single man's claim. Dear friends, from the palace has come an unfair and unconscionable budget. Look, we met at the Commission for five weeks, and we couldn't change a comma from the unconscionable and unfair budget from the palace; this, my friends, is our House, so we couldn't change a comma. Now, this Parliament has not been able to change a comma of this non-publicized budget. Here, democracies are regimes where balance and control can happen, friends. In Turkey, the balance, the control regime has collapsed; the balance, the control regime has failed. Our coven is unable to balance and supervise, however the decrees from the palace come through, I'm afraid. Look, there are other institutions to balance, to supervise; representatives of the judiciary are sitting, the representative of the Constitutional Court is sitting here. But unfortunately, the Constitutional Court is not in place in our country, my friends, and the European Court of Human Rights is not in place. So now we live in a country where there is no rule of law. In a country like this, none of us are safe. You can look at it today: Sir, it's not applied for HDP people, it's not applied for Enis Berberoglu. But I assure you, the Kantar that you've disturbed today will weigh you tomorrow; it's always been that way; it's always been that way; it's always been that way, sir; it's always going to be that way; but those who break the line of justice are weighed in the same kantar, and on that day they moaned out of justice and justice. You'll live, too, but we'll protect your rights that day, my friends. Look, what's the other balancing, controlling institution? Public Inspection. Guys, people from helicopters were thrown out and lynched and killed in our country. In a situation like this, public auditors take action in democratic countries, judge that cruel understanding, you can't throw a citizen out of a helicopter, you can't execute our citizens, you can't torture our citizens. They say, "You can't torture our citizens." They say, "You can't torture our citizens," and they stand in front of the execution, but we can't take a step in that sense. There's another balancing, controlling agency there, Mr. Abubekir Şahin, head of RTÜK. It's supposed to be a balancing and controlling institution, supposedly fighting for the development of publishing in Turkey, supposedly saving our children from bad broadcasts. Look, do you guys know what Abubekir Hawk is doing? Turkey is one of the top clients in the 180 countries to bring it to the top in press freedom, Abubekir Şahin. You will say: 'Ebubekir Şahin is not guilty of anything; he is being instructed. We all know it, he is being instructed, and he himself explains it.' What's he saying? We call upon the president's instructions and suggestions, and say, above our heads. Can you imagine, my friends, how miserable you must be if you love your God! A stabilizer, the head of a supervisor's office, says if a party leader, the AKP leader, gives me orders, I give them orders, and I say it's on my head. Can you talk about freedom of the press in a country like this? Why are we in the 154th place in 180 countries? We're in the 154th row. You'd all be ashamed if I counted the remaining countries above us, my friends. RTÜK is now a stick in the palace, a stick in the palace. So he's struggling to silence the press that's trying to speak, trying to oppose, trying to show the wrongs of power, and that's all he's got to do. My dear friends, you say "reform," "reform," "reform," "reform." Why? Foreign capital will come. Look, I'm offering you reform: this Ebubekir Şahin sitting here, his institution, let's close it together, let's take Ebubekir Hawkahan out of office, and let's not give him a five-cent budget; see, see how freedoms come in Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0127par0273	It's not right to personalize, it's not the right style, you have to warn.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0125par0274	The biggest reform is to shut down RTÜK. Come on, let's close up, let's not budget. Let's close down the embarrassing RTÜK, a club of the palace, which brings Turkey to the 154th place in press freedom. Are you in?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0128par0275	Can he answer you? Can he answer you?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0125par0276	I mean, guys, every day when it comes to HDP people, every day at A News, in the pool media, there's a curse apocalypse, there's an apocalypse every day. They call him a terrorist, they call him an enemy of Turkey, they curse their mouths. There's not a court order that's been finalized about our beloved Selahattin Demirtaş. Every day A Haber says here this is the terrorist, this is, this is... Osman Kavala... Oh, man, you guys, you've been pulling that guy's nose for years. Over and over and over... you said that he organized the ship. After that, he organized July 15th. He was acquitted of all of them, and now you're saying that he's a terrorist. Still, Mr. President says he's the financer of the ship. From his acquittal, all televisions lynch Osman Kavala every day.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0129par0278	Flatters!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0125par0279	RTÜK is applying to RTÜK, says: "Sir, these are criticisms. They are called Selahattin Demirtaşa, they are called "terrorists." But let there be a criticism for the President, he comes to the court's club; Tele, sir, let the people come to TV, FOX TV, let them open their mouths, let them open their mouths! Look, what does he say, Mr. Abubekir Şahin? It's very striking. Look, the FOX has written the sentence to the FOX, to Tele 1, to the People's TV, what does it say? ▪ All media organizations must broadcast in a way that does not divide the state and the nation.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0130par0281	He's right.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0125par0282	Yeah, guys, you know what that means? Whatever Recep Tayyip says, you'll say, "Long live!," he says, "Long live Padişah! I don't want to hear anything else!" He says, "It'll be one voice." He says, "It'll be one man's regime, it'll be one voice." He says.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0131par0283	Get on with it, get on with it!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0125par0284	He says, "I'm a stick in his head." He says, "I'll cut off the last of his windpipes." He's done time and time again, and now he's in the final stage, and if he gets another ticket, he's going to be suspended. Look, he's assigning licenses. Yeah, people are applying for a license. What's the criteria, guys? Sir, are you going to broadcast in favor of power, or are you going to broadcast in opposition? Friends, the nature of publishing is that it's the opposition, it's the power that delivers its wrongs to the public. RTÜK must serve in such a manner, preventing the citizen's right to information, but what does RTÜK take in front of him? Whatever our president commands, sir, will be the only voice. Here, such an RTÜK is the enemy of democracy in Turkey, the enemy of freedom of the press, and one of the main causes of the political and economic crisis, my friends. Yeah, RTÜK's making public spots, guys. Let's check it out, see who's doing it. He's got side companies doing it. Who's he getting published? He's running it through all the channels, and the huge resources are changing hands here. So, did you see what's on the public spotlight? Power has its ways. You know, when they had programs called from inside the government, almost all public spotlights are friends with the programs from inside the administration. This is the kind of RTÜK (RTÜK) that we are facing, an RTÜK (RTÜK) where corruption persists and resources are transferred to the allies. Dear friends, there are examples of RTÜK (RTÜK) in Europe as well; there are examples to protect children from bad publications and to improve publishing. So, those countries are ranking top 20 in press freedom. When you were supposed to move our country to the top 10th place, we're 154.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0132par0288	Mr. Paylan, let's finish.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0125par0289	Let's put the hat in front of us and think about it, guys. RTÜK is a censorship institution, and we need to get rid of this censorship institution, my dear friends. And finally, I'm going to say something to the President of Süzeyya Sadi, the Deputy Chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Dear friends, look, there's employees here, there's cavas, there's workers cleaning this place, there's waiters, there's council workers. Yeah, they're working for $2,400, guys, $2,400. It's a shame for us. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) We're dealing with a council that employs workers under the hunger line. Dear friends, either they do the same job, one of them gets $2,400, and one of them gets $4,500. This kind of injustice is signed by the House. Let's all be equal to the working status of all members of Parliament, to set an example for Turkey. Let us not employ them on the edge of hunger, but let us carry them over the poverty line, set an example for Turkey. In Turkey, tens of thousands of employees, public workers, work on the edge of hunger, we have no right. As members of the House, I say we should even out the rights of all workers, all workers, and move them over the poverty line. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0133par0294	Mr. Omar Faruk Gergerlioglu, Kopeeli MP. Here you go, Mr. Gergerlioglu.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0134par0297	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I respectfully salute all our former deputies and thousands of our members, including former Co-Chairs Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ, who are watching us from prisons where they are being persecuted. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, we're going to talk about the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism here today, but I'm not going to fill the beaches with hotels and talk about the budget of a ministry that keeps people off the coast, and I'm going to talk about other issues. Yesterday we listened to Mr. Fuat Oktay, or rather we listened to Fuat Oktay, and he tried to paint us a very sunny Turkey. I'll try to tell you the true nature of Turkey. Dear friends, we said prisons; our friends, most of the HDPs, are in prison, Kurds are in prison; so let's start with prisons. Look, it happened yesterday, I'll tell you something. I've been keeping a close eye on the breaches in prison. Cadets Mohammed Ali Taş, son of a poor Kayseri family, father of a cleaning worker at Kayseri City Hall. At the age of 19, you fought. He was sentenced to life in prison for five years without firing a single bullet. They are waiting for the Supreme Court. They've ruined the life of your child and hundreds of young men like him. That wasn't enough; you know what happened yesterday? In the prison -- which Mr. Fuat Oktay was telling in his tales -- in those rosery prisons in Turkey, which he described -- the headman Ramazan Weller and four execution guards pulled him aside, pulled him away, so that they beat him to a place where there were no cameras; and they dragged him into the room, and threw him into a room full of spongy; and it was not enough, but they put his head on the ground, and put his neck down. They took him to the doctor; he was pretty miserable, but he didn't get the doctor's report. When he visited the lawyer, there were bruises from his left eye to his left ear and signs of torture on his arms. This kid's 24 years old and he's still in the dungeons. These children are being persecuted in this sunny Turkey. Another young man -- I told you last week -- from Hakkari Derecik, Özcan Erbaş. He's a young boy, and he's been massacred by law enforcement. There's no serious explanation and there's gonna be a cover-up, and we know very well what happened in these murders. I just want to say, look, these kids are our kids. Turkey's Muhammad Ali Taş and Kurd's Özcan Erbaş. We want these children not to fight, to make peace, but the AK PARTI-MHP Cumhur Alliance has the blood of both Turkish and Kurdish.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0135par0304	Tell the PKK, to the PKK!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0134par0305	That's what we're trying to do: keep the Turkish and Kurdish youth from being persecuted; keep one from being sentenced to life imprisonment; and the other one from being murdered.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0135par0307	That's bullshit, that's bullshit!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0136par0308	Don't do this! Don't lie!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0134par0309	Look, scandals don't end. What did we talk about most this year? We talked about Covid. I'm a doctor, I followed very closely. I'm an MP who's had a two-time trial because he's been publicizing cases in hospitals from the beginning. You know what? After he explained the case at the hospital, he came to me with a statement, and then immediately, the Ministry of Justice got agitated -- he evacuated the patient -- he was under arrest -- and five days later, he died under Covid's treatment. Look, that's their condition, and then that's what happened to us first, and then what happened to the nation, it turned out that they were lying, that they were causing the extra number of patients and deaths, and it turned out that they were putting other citizens at risk. The Fuat Oktay fairy tales continue, my friends. Look, we're talking outside Turks, right? I've been talking about it here for years. Supposedly, it's a sensitive power for the Uygur Turks, but it sells Uygur Turks in the first place. In the United Nations, 39 countries have criticised and signed China's practices, but Turkey is not here. Why? They have beautiful trade relations with China, very emotional relationships, 50 billion dollars in trade volumes, and they can't make a sound; they're selling their own race in the first place. (Applause from HDP rows) We take care of the Uygur Turks, we take care of the Kurds, we take care of the Arabs, we take care of the Sunnis, we take care of the Alevis. We're taking care of people, we're not being racist, let's say that in the first place.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0136par0311	Who are you looking out for? Don't do that!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0137par0312	Who are you? Who are you?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0134par0313	Look, this Syrian Muhammad, do you know what happened? I'm a member of the Immigration and Harmony Commission. In March, tens of thousands of refugees were abused and marketed at the Pazakule Gate. The EU sat down to negotiate with Turkey and at least two of these people died, hundreds were injured, and thousands were devastated. These people were there for months. When we went there as a delegation, they were bleeding in front of our eyes, and we saw them, and nobody told me anything. Look, Afghan Salim told me all about it. They explained how miserable they had been there, and then they had to return to Ankara, Istanbul, where they had been left unemployed, and were devastated. I can tell you guys if you want to know all about it.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0136par0314	Tell me about it!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0134par0315	Look, I'm going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on Look, I'm going to show you some very important documents here.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0138par0317	Guys, please...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0136par0318	Let's hear it!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0138par0319	Congressman...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0136par0320	Who's he looking out for?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0138par0321	Congressman, please... Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0139par0323	Mr. Fuat Oktay came from the presidency and told us stories here. Look, this is a CIMER response, CIMER answer, see? You know what this answer says?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0140par0324	Tell me about the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and the
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0139par0325	A person from the KHK has a very advanced disabled child, and he cannot receive a disability pension or a maintenance allowance. In response to CIMER's application -- his account here -- he says: "No help will be done to the relatives of those who have been expelled by the KHK." Aha, here's the document! Woe to you! Woe to you! [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here's a separate document, and here's the CIMER document. Here's the patient's name, and here's the report. It's embarrassing! You took people, you know, people out of citizenship, you deprived people of their homes, you violated the Constitution, you threw them out of citizenship, it wasn't enough, you canceled their passports, and you said, "I want you out of citizenship, but I want to kill you by dragging you out here.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0141par0329	What do you mean? He's such a mouth!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0142par0330	Mr. Special, do not interfere with the security service, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0141par0331	What the hell?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0142par0332	Please, I beg you very much...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0143par0333	Look, I'll give you more examples. How you scream when your crimes come out, don't you? Because your crimes are coming out. [[Applause from HDP rows, noise from AK PARTI and MHP rows]] Look, it's a TUBITAK document, scandalous documents. In the application for a scholarship, TÜBİTAK says: "You will not be expelled with the PKK. I mean, I threw you out of the office, and I want to expel you from life and citizenship." Then someone gets a scholarship like this, wants it back with interest; it's embarrassing! What government agency can stand here and look people in the face? Shame on you, shame on you. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Another document, look, here's the RTÜK document. RTÜK -- what he wrote to the media; the media is watching us here, and the people are watching us -- says: "Give up your sense of journalism to undermine state institutions using the numbers report." The RTÜK says so. What did our Cypriot Regent just tell you here? The Court says there's dirt on the bottom of state institutions, plain as day.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0144par0338	Tell me about the people.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0143par0339	Look, here's another example: a lecturer from KESK wants to apply to a greenhouse class after our friend is discharged. The first day he goes to İSKUR, and the next day he gets a message: "You can't come to Kursa. Why? You've been exported by KHK, brother. You have no place in life. It's trying. Look, these papers are all here.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0145par0341	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0143par0342	Is this how you're going to reform the law? Is this how you're gonna do judicial reform? I'll ask you. Look, I'm telling you the true nature of Turkey. Who's that? In Diyarbakir -- everyone knows him now -- it's Rojbin Çetin who broke into his house with dogs. Is there a law here? Here, look, there's a woman in reverse handcuffs. I'm a civil rights advocate who's been following the CPT reports very well. For years, Turkey has struggled to prevent CPT reports from being released. In August 2020, 2017 and 2019 CPT reports were released. The reports were a disgrace, despite all Turkey's obstacles. No windows in detention centers, no air space... There were CPT reports stating that prisons, detention centers were full of abuse and torture; they were obvious. What reform are you talking about, what law?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0146par0345	He's such a mouth!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0143par0346	You're also a supporting and supporting power that tries to give people a full adjustment, supports Alaattin Scavenger, who cuts the code. What are you talking about? [[Applause from HDP rows, noise from AK PARTI and MHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You're a government that led your former deputy, Ihsan Arslan, to the disciplinary committee for calling legal reform. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0147par0351	You're foaming at the mouth! Don't shout!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0148par0352	Why don't you tell me about the PKK and the people?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0149par0353	Watch where you're going!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0150par0354	Yes, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the final speaker is Adana MP Kemal Peköz... [[Interference between HDP and MPP rows]] Just a moment, Mr. Peköz. Friends, please, I've called the speaker to the stand, please...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0151par0358	Your teacher's on the stand, calm down.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0150par0359	Here you go, Mr. Peköz.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0152par0361	Mr. President, I've been promised a 2021 Budget Law Proposal. I'm going to go over the Turkish Language Foundation budget, but before that, I'd like to say a few things: first, I'd like to send love and salutations to our former Co-Chairs, Selçuk Azı, Günay Kublai, Ali Ürküt, Nazmi Gür, and all of my fellow inmates who have been arrested for protesting the events of October 6-8. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, before we get to the point, I'd like to draw your attention to one thing. You know, there's a disease called SMA (SMA) that's been keeping Turkey's agenda busy for a long time, but it's not digitally high, so it may not be getting anyone's attention. However, these people get treatment abroad for $2.5 million, but there's been a domestic agreement with them, and if the medicine is brought here, it can be made for $750,000. A family is starting a campaign, and they're raising $3 million, and they want to treat four kids with the means they created them. Social Security won't allow it. They're suing, they're winning the case, and the Social Security Agency has already contested the case. Therefore, that drug cannot come to Turkey. They come in for lighter ones, but they don't come in because they need gene therapy. Let's say they can't campaign, they can't raise money, so the money we need for these 34 kids is $25,500,000. $25,500,000 is a lot smaller than $1 billion, 200 million. You're saving $1 billion, $200 million, $9 billion, 360 million in Turkish dollars as a tax deduction for one person, but you're not saving $25 million to provide the lives of 34 children. I don't accept it, it's not acceptable; it needs to be fixed at once, at least by its own initiative, to get people to bring their medicine. [[Applause from HDP rows]] The Turkish Language Foundation has been working in Turkish with its Sun-Dil Theory studies as of its specific years, but has become a tool for denial of others, others who speak other languages outside the Turkish language. Over the years, there has been a serious assimilation policy, especially against Kurdish and other languages, even though the Sun-Dil Theory has declined. Many Turkologists have also served in language policies, and have published dozens of books saying that Kurdish is not a language while they are doing language studies, it is a dialect of Turkish. In 2012, under the initiative of then Deputy Prime Minister Brent Arinc, the Turkish Language Foundation published a dictionary in Kurdish-Turkish, but they did so with their own initiatives -- without having any contact with any Kurdish institution that conducted Kurdish studies. However, earlier in Turkey, the Kurdish Institute, which was closed in 2016, closed with the KHK (KHK), has long before -- Turkish-Turkish-Kürtish, and also made a detailed dictionary, which is known as the most commonly used dictionary in Turkey. On November 26, 2013, a journalist took advantage of the Information Act and asked the question, "What is Kurd?," asked Professor Mustafa Kokalin, the head of the Turkish Language Foundation of the period, emphasised three different things in his response. In response to the Kurdish, the first one said, "This is a community that lives in Asia, and this is a community. " Second, he said such things as the father - in - law tree, the bow, the whip, and the staff. The third one is a kind of tree used in high school. He replied, "What is Kurd?" Although the statement about lumbering does not appear in the Turkish Dictionary, the statement remains in the Turkish Compilation Dictionary. Agencys such as Azadiya Welat, Kurdish broadcaster Zarok TV, Jiyan TV, Azadi TV, Van TV and TV10 channels, Kurdish news broadcaster JINHA, RIA. KUDI-DDER, research on Kurdish language and culture at the Istanbul Kurdish Institute, closed schools, academies and associations for children teaching in Kurdish native language. The Kurdish theatre play, which will be staged in İstanbul's Gaziosmanpaşa district of İstanbul Metropolitan City Theatres, has been banned on the grounds of breaking the general public order within hours of the screening. After the verdict, the cops stormed the stage, banned the game, the players were not allowed to appear on stage. The trustees began to hate the language and culture of Kurds. The trustees are a continuation of traditional denial to the Kurdish people. When they were first appointed, they started out with a hatred for the language and culture of the Kurdish people, which was a sign of what their actions would be. In 2016 and 2019, trustees assigned to municipalities shut down Kurdish-service daycare centres, annulled the contracts of city theatres performing Kurdish games, and many Kurdish institutions, parks, street and streets were changed by Turkish names. This is one of the greatest indicators of hatred towards a people's language, their culture. The trustee removed the Kurdish language option from the official site as soon as he entered office at Batman City Hall; the Siirt trustee shut down the library under the name Celadet Ali Badirhan. The icons, which were found in the crosswalks, were removed and deleted. After his appointment, the time - worn writings were restored, and the municipality under the trustee administration never used Kurdish icons this time. Turkish and Kurdish direction plates, including the names of many neighborhoods in Çaldıran district of Van's province, were removed by the trustee of Van Metropolitan Municipality, and only signs of Turkish neighborhood names remained. Kars Municipality trustee Governor Türker Ekçiz has dissolved the municipality council, which consists of members of five parties, freezing the municipality's Kurdish account, (SQerse). The trustee appointed to the municipality of Muradiye, Ayse Shan, who had approved his opening, took down the sign of the Book and Guesthouse, and locked the door. The trustee of the City of Siirt had Celadet Ali Badirhan's Library destroyed and left it empty. While the appointed trustees ban Kurdish, the Interior Ministry makes the grounds for appointing trustees on its official page in Kurdish. That's the bottom of the problem. Assimilation practices under social policy are a common result of the creation of a giant blob of inequality, the love of Turkification of Kurdish identity and culture, the poverty of the poor through the poverty economy. The second term and the passing year have been a year when this result has been deepened. This is one of the sources of the main problems in Turkey right now. When we talk about Kurds, when we talk about Kurdish, when we talk about bans, it jumps into the air immediately, and there's no such thing in return. You yell at the bar. But all of this is done by the trustees you've appointed and blessed. The whole world sees the practice of these trustees, not just us. This will continue to be one of the most important issues of Turkey's problems in the coming period. I end my words here, and I salute our people and the House.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0153par0382	Congressmans, the first round of talks on behalf of the HDP Group has been completed.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0154par0383	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0153par0384	Mr. Mush, let me make this clear: Because of the tyranny, I will promise you from the stand according to 69. You'll have two minutes to say so, and then I'll give you two minutes to talk about bullying, and then I won't do the second round, for your information.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0155par0385	Why?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0153par0386	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0156par0390	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this is the budget of our nation, so let's put it first. The criticism of 18 years is similar to today's criticism, but the nation has given us the authority to do so because there is a budget collected from it and transferred to it. Some claims have been made concerning this Entity Fund, and the debt has increased to this much. So let's think of the asset fund as a conglomerate, and let's think of it as a subsidiary. Their own companies included only two company consoles in 2017: Stock Exchange Istanbul and THY. In 2018, there seems to have been a significant increase in debt when all companies were compared to paintings as consuls. There are two loans that the asset Fund itself used: one is a 1 billion-euro loan; one is the judge's share of Turkcell, while 26 per cent has been taken over from the Agriculture Bank; other than that, there is no debt from the Entity Fund. And there's also some of them, because they have foreign currency loans -- for example, when banks are reflected in paintings as dollars of THY, there seems to be an increase in currency awareness. I felt the desire to make that statement. And I'd also like to point out that we never approve of a conversation we just had. It's a separatist speech; it's not a separatist language, it's a unifying language; there's hatred in speech, there's hatred in speech, there's hostility in medicine. Look, we shouldn't divide this country by you, you and I. Who are we, who are our dear friends? We'll never let you tear us apart. The language you use here is a language that excludes our Alevi brothers. With this mentality, you can never represent our Flaming brothers. He's just come up with another orator, the Cumhur Alliance is draining the blood of Kurds and Turkish children. Give me a hand, give me a hand! Look, just this year 225, the boy who was kidnapped by the PKK, forced under the gun, whatever you want to call his young name -- they were taken down from the mountain again through persuasion. Look, 225 people. An understanding that wanted to kill would never have been involved. 225 people were downloaded through persuasion. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's a power that exists to live, not to kill.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0157par0399	The PKK is convinced, but we have not been able to persuade HDP.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0156par0400	There's someone who's killed, you know, you know, the chief enemy of Turks and Kurds is the PKK.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0157par0401	Mr. President, could you give me one more minute? There were a lot of preachers, so...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0156par0402	Dear friends, some things have just been said about the people who live in this country. Have mercy, dear friends! Four million guests from Syria. It's got Kurds in it, Arabs in it, Turkmen in it, and under the roof of the Republic of Turkey, Assad, PKK, and the PYD are protecting their lives by avoiding persecution. I'd like to point out here that we've been denying the charges against minor, unknown samples.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0158par0404	Take the podium home, home!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0157par0405	Yeah, there are seven oratories, the answer's one minute; no. Mr. President, where's the justice?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0159par0406	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0160par0407	Mr. Aykut, one second... Mr. Beştaş has a request for a word, and I'll promise you later.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0161par0408	There's nothing to do with Aykut Bey.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0162par0409	Why are you giving it to me, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0163par0410	Can't I take a pledge as Deputy Director of the Group according to 60?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0162par0411	Of course you can, the shop is yours!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0163par0412	Do I have your permission?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0164par0413	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0162par0414	There's the president.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0164par0415	If you'll excuse me, I'll ask the question.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0165par0416	Mr. President, have you declared a butler of your own pleasure?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0166par0417	Yes, so the ruling group will also decide on our promise!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0164par0418	Please, let's all do our jobs.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0167par0419	President, there's no joy in it, just manage it, not with pleasure.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0164par0420	Mr. Beştaş, I'll put you on the stand for two minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0168par0421	Sir?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0164par0422	Here's to the stand. Two minutes...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0168par0424	I'll talk from here.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0164par0425	No, please, from the stand.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0168par0426	Why?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0164par0427	I'm not making any promises based on 60. If you take the promise of bullying, there's a taunt-take the stand. I'm not making any promises based on 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0169par0430	Is this your personal decision? Anyway, let's discuss it later.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0170par0431	Mr. President, there's no beating. He says he wants it according to 60. It's open in the charter.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0169par0432	There's bullying, but I still want to talk about my place.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0171par0433	Mr. Bulent, mind your own business, please. Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0169par0438	I'm not going to answer Mr. Mush, I'm going to talk about something else.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0172par0439	What's wrong with you?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0169par0440	The president of RTÜK is here. We've got a big problem with RTÜK. Why? I'm telling the head of RTÜK that it needs to be an autonomous, constitutional and neutral institution. Let's ask Turkey if it's really that kind of board. Currently, the RTÜK (Radio and Television Supreme Council) is working as the AKP's media censorship board in Turkey. We, the People's Democratic Party, have submitted 13 applications. Because every night, with their experts who understand everything -- under the name of academia -- they mow, slaughter, beat, insult, commit all kinds of crimes. There's a right to answer, the whole world knows, it's the basis of media broadcasting, and we don't have the right to answer. No more invitations, no more phone calls, no more rights to answer. We're applying to RTÜK (RTÜK), and after months, 13 applications have passed, there are no responses, but the same Radio and Television Oversight uses a single word against the AKP, and the next day, as a broadcast board -- which is connected to the palace -- immediately punishes us. In this way, Turkey will terrorize it in public. I'm telling the head of RTÜK that either resign immediately or do your duty. In this way, we know you're not neutral and independent, but you're mediating a constitutional crime against a party with biased publications every night. It is a constitutional offense to discuss HDP in such a manner, and according to the Turkish Penal Code, it is also a crime according to international law. Either resign or do your duty. We expect immediate response to our applications.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0173par0442	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0174par0443	Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0173par0444	Speaking earlier, HDP MP Kemal Bülbül has accused me of ignorance -- who does not understand speech. That's why I want your word.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0174par0445	Come on in. Come on in for two minutes. Without further ado, please. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0175par0450	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs, of course, we'd like to have this conversation without any further bullying. We listened to the speakers of the HDP Group. Some talks were so disturbing, so twisted and slanderous that, believe me, when you listen where you sit, you have a hard time answering them in what order and in what order? Now, a speech of hatred, hatred, and anger. I've expressed it as Mr Kemal Nightingale's speech. In this speech, they have accused themselves of ignorance, who did not understand that speech, but there is a saying here. It's one thing to accuse someone of ignorance, but it's a very difficult thing to express yourself. It's especially troubling to have conversations with the dervishan here, and to talk about poetry, poetry, poetry -- I'll tell my master -- and to go behind the scenes and fall into this pit. So, at this point, if we really intend to have a heart, if we've absorbed something at this point, don't hurt your feelings. If we've taken your motto as a guide, I think it's also a sign that hatred, anger and anger are expressed by Hajji Bektas Veli in a way that should never be expressed and should never be intimidated by it. Now, in Gergerlioğlu's speech, we haven't heard a day of mention of our people, who had once been martyred by the traitorous coup attempt of GERgerlioğlu.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0176par0455	You won't find any of us.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0177par0456	You've caused trouble to the country.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0176par0457	You won't find anything for us.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0178par0458	We're the victims of GERP, Mayor.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0179par0459	Those who attempt this treacherous coup attempt, those who do not say a word about these traitors, those who don't say a word about baby killers, those who go and visit Teacher Najmudin's killers in their homes, can't get up here and tell us about humanity and brotherhood. 'Cause you know what the problem is? The problem is the problem of intimacy. It's not going to be possible for people to take credit for this position unless you can do the same thing you're saying. I pay my respects. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0180par0463	Mr. Nightingale, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0181par0464	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0180par0465	Mr. Altay, take the stand.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0181par0469	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you and the Grand General Assembly. Dear friends, what all terrorist organizations want most is for the state to go outside the law. What happens if the government goes against the law? The environment of trust is replaced by chaos, which feeds terrorist organizations. That's why we say, everyone stay within the rules of law. I don't know the Constitutional Court's decisions. That's why we're calling them the first-degree courts so you don't spoil them any more; one. I've said for certain that democracy is a reaction and a protest regime, and the majority party needs to get used to it.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0182par0473	Moderate, measured...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0181par0474	Of course it's measured. Second: The street is the temple of democracy without breaking down, without violence, and do not be afraid of the street, and I want to emphasize that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Third, the asset fund's debt is exactly $67 billion, Mr. Mush. There's a treasure cash painting -- our Aykut Erdoğdu told me, I don't understand -- look at the treasure cash table, come apologize to everyone here, because you just gave people false information. The fourth, dear friends, is that there's always a policy of discrimination against Alevi. Alevis have lost rights, rights violations against Alevis all the time, not just during the AK PARTY, but before, we need to be able to face it. We have to be able to say, "Cami is very beautiful, and so is the temple. We have to be able to say, and like Sunni citizens use mosques as a place of worship -- which I use -- we have to be able to use the mosque of our brothers and sisters as a sanctuary, period. [[Applause from CHP rows]] And last words, my friends will speak, for me, the RTÜK is this dear friend: RTÜK is a vicious ur, even an inflammation, a ignorance. (CHP) To save our democracy, the immediate withdrawal of the RTÜK (RTÜK) to the norms of democracy is a necessity. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0183par0483	Bravo!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0184par0484	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0185par0485	Mr. Nightingale has made one-on-one assault on both of our orators. Kemal Julbül expressed our deputy as a pro-violence. Again, about our other orator, Gergerlioglu...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0186par0486	I didn't say violent.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0184par0487	Mr. Beştaş, Mr. Kemal Nightingale just said different things.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0185par0488	No, no, there's teasing, Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit03spe0184par0489	And for him, I don't think it's right to extend it any longer. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0184par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of Turkey's 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly. 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The Central Management Final Account for Public Control Agency 2019 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2019 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Radio and Television Oversight 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2021 2) General Directorate of State Theatres 2019 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY WRITTEN PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Agency 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2021 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account YURTISHI ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, 2021 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Research Center 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Language Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Historical Institution Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Historical Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Cappadocia Field President's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Cappadocia Field President 2019 Central Management Final Account We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. The commission is in place. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the first speaker is Mr. Ahmet Tuncay Özkan, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0187par0068	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I'd like to begin with a reference to my recent budget speech. So he was sitting here -- I think now he's president of the Central Bank -- our friend, everything that rots falls. I told you, there's no way that anything that rots can be kept in one place. Like everything else, this budget will fall. I told you so, because it rots. You're actually low, you'll realize you're down in the first election, and you're not here right now.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0188par0070	The word "low" is not a good word.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0187par0071	You're low, everything that rots falls. It's the sequel of his saying, not as an insult, but I have not rotted.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0189par0072	Mr. Özkan, please don't talk to me.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0188par0073	I went to, like, May 27th.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0187par0074	You're low, you'll see, rotting like anything else.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0188par0075	I thought of May 27th.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0187par0076	Don't always think of bad things, bring fruit, bring vegetables. (CHP cheers) It has nothing to do with 60, that's not what I mean, the decaying thing falls.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0190par0077	Mr. Özkan, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0187par0078	The Berat Colonel was the most precious fruit of the palace, rotted and fell. Where is he now? Where?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0191par0079	In England.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0187par0080	At the moment, the Berat Colonel will have to respond to dozens of things that we have brought here as criticisms in the budget. Where? No. Because, Mr. Colonel, to whom did you sell the $100 billion to which he would be directed, brother? He has to answer the question, how did this treasure come to $47 billion? But he doesn't have to answer the question. And no one's answering for him, which is weird. This suggests that the court regime has fallen, that the only man's regime has fallen, and that it will be understood by the first election. I want to present to you a memory: Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the mayor, or the fallen, but he's in public, and I'm running the Kanal Dτ, and one day he came to visit me, and he pulled a white handkerchief out of his pocket, and he put it on the table, and he opened it, and there were two earrings in the handkerchief, and there were two necklaces, and there were two bracelets. He said: "I come from the slums, and the women there have brought them out, and they have given them to me, and they have given them to me, saying: "How strange it is, after twenty years, Recep Tayyip Erdogan has decided to take bread out of the garbage, to buy food for those women, to collect vegetables from the markets. (CHP clapping in rows) The big problem is here, the big collapse is here, the big decay is here. Now, I ask you, how will she give Ayþe, that Fatma aunty, that Elif grandmother of hers the blessing of those who delivered her to her? Come on, this world is gone, how can he give in the afterlife?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0192par0082	Mind your own business! Are you a judge?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0187par0083	How can I be the judge of the matter when you're standing there? If I have the right to judge you, you can write his thesis! You write your thesis!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0192par0085	You write a book to the terrorist!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0187par0086	I wrote it, there's 21, I'll send it to you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0192par0087	Write a book for the terrorist, straight to the eulogy!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0187par0088	She grew up with her sister Ayþe's daughter, the nurse, and I came out of Covid, and I saw how they worked, and I saw how they worked in intensive care for twenty days. The ICU nurse -- Mr. President told us yesterday -- is being deposited at $7, only $7. Now, she's either gonna put up with it, or she's gonna live with Covid, or she's gonna be out of a job. Ayşe's son was already unemployed, finished university, but he gave his earring, bracelet, necklace to Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. What did he do? He built palaces, built palaces with them.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0193par0090	That's Ayþe Abla with the headscarf you couldn't convince her of yesterday's persuasion...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0187par0091	Now, he's passed through the persuasion rooms, he's finished the university, he's come to you, he's unemployed, he says give me a job. You send him out into the street, you send him out into unemployment. She became a nurse, and she destroyed the room of persuasion, and she succeeded in all things; and she became a nurse, and she said, "O brother, I want my due. You have not done her justice, you have not done her justice. 300 advisers continue to work at the palace with an average salary of $18,000, 300 advisors. Now, I'm asking, I'm asking, how does a minimum wager get a lot of $3,100, a political look, and how does that pay 300 men, how does that work? Now, I ask you, my friends, not the clothes that make us precious, but we are not worthy of them; we are covered in our conscience, we rise in the morning, and we cover our nakedness with it, as great as our conscience is. Now, I say, the king is naked, the court is naked, their conscience is blind, their conscience is deaf! (CHEERING) With this conscience, this nation is not ruled. With this conscience, with one man's conscience, this nation will not be ruled. Now, this year, with our budget, with this rotten budget, we've divided $4 billion and 39 million into the palace. What did the palace do last year? If only we hadn't split it up, if only we'd given it to the citizen, and Covid would have fought harder with his friends. Now, what did he do? The palace costs $13.4 million in clothes and clothes, the cost of the palace's waste and clothing. With this, we would provide tablets for every poor child without a tablet, without access to remote education. Just don't put it in here. What would have happened if there had been nothing fruity or aloe? We have returned, what would we have lost, my friends, if we had returned $105 million for the summer in Okluk Bay; and we had returned, and there had not been $22 million for the house of Ahlat? What would we lose? Isn't it a waste? Isn't it a sin? Well, my friends, Mr. Berat is gone -- a person I love, and I know his father very well -- who's going to pay for this 100 billion? Now, to continue this budget, we're going to borrow $180 billion, and we're going to pay interest, interest debt, so that we can translate our economy. Our budget is 1.3 trillion, the money we're looking for is 1.8 trillion, friends. The money we're looking for is 1.8 trillion so we can pay interest just to give it to the lender.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0194par0093	Wrong!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0187par0094	You hit a dollar, you tell the truth, I'll fix it.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0194par0095	Not at all.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0187par0096	Who's going to pay for the budget, minus 47 billion? Now, we're all here to talk about our views on Turkey's administration. Just a moment ago, Mr. President, he told me about the RTÜK, he said, he made the determination, and I thank the President very much, he was here, but now I don't think he's here. This president taught us how not to rule the RTÜK, and we learned it. We've seen a lot of presidents before him, but this RTÜK president -- my brother Utku -- has planted feathers that will shed light on that. Democracy can't handle that, Mr. President, you're quite right. Now, sir, the National Lottery was gambling, gambling was being played; you privatized the national lottery; it was beautiful; it used to be a labor force in the national lottery; while privatising it, we will retain it; they will not be fired. You privatized it. We only had one national lottery, and now we have crap at home, and now we have roulette at home, and they've got all these under the national lottery, and you've turned every house into a casino, and everybody's playing with them. So, I'm asking you: 8 percent of the VAT of the bread is 8 percent of the water, 8 percent of the baby diaper is 18 percent; with what conscience, with which court conscience, what single man did you reset the VAT in gambling conscience? Why did you do this to the blacksmith? Why did the VAT reset, guys? How did you guys reset roulette, craps, gambling's VAT in the house, when there was a VAT in the diaper, without a sound sound? Justice... when you take me in, justice brings me out, justice reform... reforms when you bring me in, reforms when you take me out. Don't reform me, don't reform us, guys. (CHEERING) You're in it! Stop playing this game. There's no playing fair over people's freedoms.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0195par0101	Let's finish, please, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0187par0102	Yes, sir, I'm finishing. Yesterday, Mr. President gave a historic speech here. That speech is also a manifesto to be framed and hung on walls.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0196par0104	You hang him, you hang him!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0187par0105	We'll hang him, you'll hang him. You'll hang him, you'll hang him, don't worry. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'm going to end with a part of him. From yesterday's speech, I read the same thing as Kemal Kilicdaroğlu: "By Allah's will, we will rule, by Allah's will, and we will end this robbery order. We're going to nationalize and buy all these investments that will exploit even our grandchildren. We promise, we'll do it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I salute you all, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0197par0112	How many years in the presidency is Kemal Bey?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0198par0113	Now it's time for the speech, Mr. Mahmut Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0199par0116	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all with respect. December 10th, World Human Rights Day. Human rights should not be violated on World Human Rights Day, but human rights are being violated even at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as of now. What does that mean? Our stenographer friends are working right now, and look, our stenographer friends are walking through the same door to the General Board, doing the same job, spending the same shift, taking the same test, different rates. Inside or outside the House, all public institutions do the same work, do the same shift, work at the same place; the fees are different. Dear friends, our esteemed Deputy Speaker, we have signed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Article 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights says: "There is equal pay for equal work. " Why don't you pay for equal work? Human rights are violated in and out of parliament, in all public institutions. So here, look, you've got 4/D, 4/A, 4/B, 4/D, some of the people in the House, 2,800, some of them 3,400, some of them 4,600, some of them around 6,000. It's a shame, isn't it? He's doing the same job, the same shift... (equal wages for equal work are being violated.) All our citizens in this position, the Public Control Agency is here, apply to the Ombudsman for free. There is an application application online, free of charge, the bad management of rights freedom is the Obudsman, who will end his bad habits. They're also delegating all of the ombudsman's powers, and the budget they're giving him is inadequate, and it's for him to be assigned to the ombudsman by parliament in all the provinces. He's trying to at least correct your violations of the law, but unfortunately, you're in the way of the Public Control Agency. Mr. Sadi Bilgiç, our Deputy Speaker, I've given you a written question motion. Yeah, that's a high-profile draft, do you know how many lawmakers have applied for high-priced military service in the House? We don't know. Are there any members of the Bedelli military? Because we were not informed, you said. I gave it in accordance with the Law of the Right to Information; this time under the Law of Information, the Secretary General has signed it; we do not know it, we do not know it. Friends, incompatible with the parliament, incompatible with the legislature, a man who works under the authority of the legislature at the same time, is incompatible with the power of parliament, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Let's just say the congressman went to the army. Friends, as Mr. Tuncay Bey just said, this is the decay. In that reply from the Deputy Speaker of Parliament, he goes to the army, he gets his MP's salary, and he also gets his insurance from Congress. Friends, in the price insurance case, when military debt can't even be made, our fellow MPs go to the army; Parliament pays the insurance, Parliament pays the salary. Now, in case our young friends aren't under suspicion, who are these fake heroes who both serve as soldiers and the state pays their insurance? Konya MP Selman Özboycı, Yalova MP Ahmet Bügümş; AK PARTİ Youth Arms Chairman; and also Vice President. They set an example, a pity, a sin. Our other friend is Gaziantep MP Müslüm Yüksel. If you do not, I will press charges against you. You have to take the 21-day military salary of these MPs and deposit it in the National Ministry of Defense's account, and you have to deposit it.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0200par0125	Mr. President, I don't want to remind you of your duty, but if you'd be so kind as to warn him of his manner, he'd be careful of his language.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0199par0126	The government will pay his insurance here and he'll get his salary from the House...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0201par0128	Let's finish, please, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0199par0129	I'm ending it, Mr. President. In your responses here, sir, he went to the army, and we don't know if he's paid. He's lying on the regular law. You tell me, this is what you give, what you write. The congressman is standing in front of me. He went to the army and got a salary. The MP you paid insurance for is across the street. I'm going to go after this salary, and you're going to have to put it in the National Department of Defense account. We will not allow this decay. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you. My respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0202par0136	Mr. President, I do not accept these threats.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0203par0137	He's not threatening you. He's saying he's going to take legal action.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0202par0138	No congressman has the right to threaten the Deputy Speaker. I'll have your answer in a minute.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0203par0139	Well, you can give me your answer later.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0202par0140	I will, but you have to protect this law as acting Speaker of Parliament.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0203par0141	I'm protecting it just fine. Mr. Mahmut has made a good point, and if you answer this correctly, this matter will not be discussed here.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0202par0142	It is you who are the doers of good (to others). You can't express your opinion about this when you're sitting on that bench.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0204par0143	Yeah, well, you've made it clear over and over again.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0205par0144	Mr. President, it's the same thing...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0204par0145	You've made it clear over and over again.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0206par0146	Ladies and gentlemen, lawmakers, we continue our negotiations. It's now the turn of the Hatay MP, Suzan Şahin. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0207par0150	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the President of the Court. The Court is an audit agency with a history of one hundred and fifty-eight years. It's the head of institutions that have control functions, that have to be effective and powerful within the state, that form the basic roof of the state. The Court can also decide whether to conduct an investigation into the relevant public administration, as it can at the end of the audit and final decision on those responsible. He is also able to report the issue to the republic's attorney's office in the event that the crime element is determined according to Turkish Penal Code provisions. This constitution is fixed with the Constitution. However, the AKP has removed the Court's performance control from its control system, called proactive control. As a result of the subjugation of the audit reports carried out under the current legal authority of the AKP (AKP) president, the inspectors' reports being passed through parliament without direct access to parliament, the Parliament's budget rights being taken away from it and the executive administration keeping legislation under the scope of the bird. For example, in 2016 the report of the Eti Mine, 540 pages, fell to 108 pages by 2018. These reports can still come in front of us, even if they are as big as birds, thanks to those who have merit and work ethic and who resist AKP lawlessness. As shown in the June edition of the Court Magazine in the picture compared to other developed countries and Turkey, the budget process in the world is budgeted for nine to 16 months, while Turkey has ended in Turkey and is budgeted for three months and fifteen days. It is also a scandal for the Court to transfer the findings to the Plan and Budget Commission and to cover irregularities and corruption in the Commission, with the AKP, the MHP majority, by not using the authority to open an investigation due to lack of integrity and pressure on the basis of the Court's findings. The Court's irregularities have not been reported to the judicial authorities for ten years, the audit reports have been put on the shelf after the meeting of parliament, and inspectors cannot report irregularities to the state prosecutors. I did it, I did it. Half of the public administrations who face their attitude do not inform the Court of their transfers to non-profit organizations. When we looked at the Court's general assessment report on administrative institutions, the number of public administrations was 313, and 30 of them did not publish their report of activity, half of the 283 administrations that published it did not provide information about their transfers to institutions. The information providers, however, did not receive any assessment of the assistance and expenditures involved in administrative activity reports. These practices are against the legal state and the Constitution. Members of the Court, the Court's representative, who spoke in 2016 during talks with the KİR Commission, confesses to the censorship of the reports and does not come here the same way the auditor wrote, he comes through a filter in the court, some of our friends' proposals are being taken out. The unsupervised rose garden, which the AKP wanted, was quickly created. Escape from independent jurisdiction and independent control is one thing. It's a violation of the Constitution, an escape from democracy. Dear members, the Constitutional Court has cancelled the legal arrangement for the exclusion of less than 50 per cent of its capital from public companies under the Court's supervision, under the previous regulation of Court Law 6085. However, is it not a violation of the Constitution that Turkey's Entity Fund is excluded from the Court? The AKP, though, has a habit of not knowing the law, not recognizing the Constitution, no wonder. Is it not a disparagement of the Court's institutions and institutions that are meant to be made into the rear garden of the entity, such as the entity Fund, and that the Court should not be sent to the Grand National Assembly directly under the principles of accountability, transparency and the right to govern legislation, and that the reports of independent auditors should not be sent directly to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, that the Court should not be inspected by risky areas and not be inspected by the Fund's assets? Isn't the appointment of independent auditors tasked by the executive body to oversee the Fund of Entity, not to be submitted to the approval of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, self-control? That's the independent control?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0208par0158	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0207par0159	It should not be forgotten that the Court is a locomotive and the eye of the nation, showing the public where the taxpayers' taxes are being spent. Turkey's Transparency Budget Index score was 51 points out of 100 in 2019 and was down 7 points according to the Transparency Budget Index score released in 2017. Turkey ranked 46th among 117 countries published the Transparency Budget Index, and has scored zero points in the public accession assessment of budget processes. The balance and control system in our country has collapsed. The entrance examinations to the Court's assistant supervisor's office are intended to form an ideological staffing in accordance with the standards of control, not according to merit. Why does a government run from control? If you're honest, if you're clean, you don't avoid being audited. So, why does the President and his party, the AKP, not like control? The AKP has passed no laws not to be audited, not to be questioned. There's no such thing as transparency in your vocabulary, but no matter what they do now, it's empty, nothing escapes the public. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute you, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0209par0165	Let's say hello, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0207par0166	In all reports, I wish our country the success of the 2021 budget, with independent control functions, which show that the AKP governments are causing governance jobs and also creating weaknesses for the internal control system. I don't want to leave this podium without making a statement. This is my debt to the Turkish nation as MP. I'd like to call you on the fight against Covid-19. From the beginning of Covid-19, you've become normalized, as if Covid was finished in June, not following any advice from the Medical Association, the Science Council, the opposition, especially our Mr. President; now, all around our country, especially in the first place, everyone is dying in Hatay. I'd like to remind you of a constitutional responsibility and obligation. Protecting human health and safety is your constitutional responsibility and obligation. You have to protect a human life, even a single human life. For that, dear MPs... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Could you pass it to me, please?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0210par0170	Thank you, Suzan Haným. For the 3rd time... [[Continue in CHP rows.]] Go ahead, he's talking about Covid.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0207par0173	I'm speaking from here as a member of parliament whose conscience is hurting. I buried my relatives in three days in order, and it hurts. All over my nation, our neighbors, our friends, are dying. You know, when you were going to enrich it, you were going to blow up the economy. And when We made haste with all that you used to do. Look, your system crashed. We can't get the PCR tests in five or six days, so you send the people who came to the test home. They're coming back to their homes again to get medicine, and all of us, all of our hospitals, have pandemic hospitals, and they're installing pandemic intensive care units in their emergency rooms. You fill people's eyes with earth. You're not satisfied. You say, "You fill people's eyes with dust in graves." If you fail to comply with this constitutional obligation, you will commit a constitutional offense. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You commit murder with the death of every human being, it's a massacre.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0211par0176	What murder?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0207par0177	Please apply full support, full quarantine with economic support.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0212par0179	Suzan Haným, thank you. Now it's time for the speech, Mr. Levent Gök. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0213par0183	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I take my word against the Constitutional Court, I respectfully salute you all. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Most of you may have heard that in September, American Ruth Bader Ginsburg died, America was shaken. She was a small, tiny woman. At the U.S. Capitol, his coffin was held for silence. Thousands of people stood guard after his death. At the White House, the flag fell in half in public buildings for Ruth Bader Ginsburg. She was a woman who had transformed America into a small woman, a minion-type woman, a women's rights advocate, minority rights, gender equality, and her biggest feature since 1993 was the judge of the U.S. Supreme Court, and America cried and mourned after the death of a supreme court judge. From the president to his humblest citizens, everyone was so shaken by his death that thousands of articles and television shows began to be written about him. Why did this happen? Because the judge, the independent judge, the unbiased judge, a judge who, with his own self-esteem and knowledge, never desires political focus, a liberal judge, a judge who protects the individual against the state. The President was respectful to him, and so was the most humble citizen. On January 27, 2017, the decree was cancelled a week after Trump restricted access to the United States of America from seven Muslim countries. The American people knew, despite the President, there were judges in this country, there were Supreme Court judges, and for 27 years a legendary judge, behind the Supreme Court judge cried for days, and they still mourn him. So, why was this happening? Why did the American people respect the judge? Because the Presidents of the United States were only able to appoint a judge once in their term, and there was no chance of American presidents appointing a judge without a treaty with the Senate to negotiate with the Senate. That's why, when we look at our country, we're talking about a Constitutional Court where 12 of the 15 Supreme Court members are determined by the President, 3 of which are elected by the ruling majority in parliament. The Constitutional Court is having the hardest time these days, and unfortunately for our country, we have to watch the Constitutional Court desperately. The Constitutional Court, on the one hand, does not satisfy one party by not doing its duty, while others do not, when they make liberal decisions. Why? Because they're not independent because it's a trial of political power by the choice of adults. The state of emergency is being declared, and the Constitutional Court tasked with overseeing state-of-the-art decrees is not overseeing state-of-the-art decrees. The State has changed all its institutions and institutions by the 703rd Amendment to the Constitution and the 1st Amendment. Lu and No. 4. The presidential decrees, which have changed all the rules of the state, have been standing before the Constitutional Court for two years and do not trust the Constitutional Court for it, have chosen you to rule, to do its will. A mistrial that hasn't been over for years is in front of the Constitutional Court. The 2018 Budget Law, the 2019 Budget Law, is still in session, and only eight have been discussed in two years from the 68 presidential decree. And there's an interesting situation, the Constitutional Court's rulings, which are still valid because it doesn't work backwards, are still in effect the presidential decrees that have turned the state upside down and the laws that have been filed against the People's Court of the Constitution. For him, the Supreme Court doesn't trust the decision once, but it doesn't end here. The Constitutional Court has ruled a breach of rights, and the lower-level courts do not comply. What a sad, sad situation for the Constitutional Court. The Supreme Court's decision is not up to the courts. So, what's the legislature doing? A change in the Coastal Law is decided to build a young palace. This law is being taken to the Constitutional Court, it's being revoked, the same law is being passed again by this law with the same blueprints and plans. So the courts don't care, and they don't care about the living. What does the executive do? The administration has a problem with the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court is revoking the law of demonstrations and march on interstates, the Interior Minister is posting to the Constitutional Court, saying: "Go to work without protection." And despite that decision, the governors are competing against each other to avoid the ten miners who want to walk according to the conditions of the pandemics. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, the problem is very deep in the Constitutional Court. Now that there's a serious test ahead of the Constitutional Court, will they or will they not be able to escape the influence of power? İstanbul Attorney General Irfan Fidan was elected to the Supreme Court by HSK on October 27, 2020, 27/10/2020. On December 1st, the Supreme Court had a candidate election that needed to be held in January, which was postponed to December 17th, and Irfan Fidan applied for membership in the Constitutional Court with more powder on his feet. Now we're waiting to see if this election will be decided by the President of Irfan Fidan among the Supreme Court members in December 17th. In addition, if he is appointed to the Constitutional Court by the President in January, we will enter a process where the Constitutional Court's reputation is flat. It's so clear and clear. I'm going to put it on the record.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0214par0192	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0213par0193	Now, what must be done? What should the members of the Supreme Court do? The Constitutional Court is one of the most important institutions to oversee the state, the law. They're going to say, "Yes, and we're going to try to be like Ruth Bader Ginsburg, the tiny little American woman, with the decisions we've made." [[Applause from CHP rows]] And most importantly, there are members of the Constitutional Court who have been appointed by the President, who have been elected by the AKP, who have been elected from parliament, all of whom are my dear friends, but they will act like Özdemir Ozok, who has been given membership in the Constitutional Court by Ahmet Necdet Sezer in order to avoid such a situation ever again, and I am a member of the CHP, and my neutrality will be damaged. They will say, "I am a member of the Constitutional Court." (HPP applause) That's when respect for the Constitutional Court increases, love for the Constitutional Court increases; our country survives, our economy survives, justice survives. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0215par0198	In turn, Mr. Cetin Osman Buddhak, MP of Antalya. Mr. Budak, come in.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0216par0201	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. Secretary, welcome, we find you once a year, so I have a few questions for you. Dear friends, the tourism industry has not spoken much so far. The tourism sector is actually the head of Turkey's survival sectors. Why? Cari is an open country. It's the tourism industry that cures the cari deficit. I'm talking about the industry that made $34.5 billion last year. 98 percent are foreign currency revenues from local sources. This year, of course, the pandemic occurred in Turkey, as in all the world, and it took place under heavy conditions, and the sector became incredibly disorganized. We expected a very serious performance from the Minister, but the Minister showed the banks directly. Go borrow money from the bank and turn your own counter like this." He said, and the loan debt, which was 96 billion dollars before the sector's pandemic, rose to $140 billion in the process. It's an incredible number, incredible, enormous. So, why are these people running around with all these loans? They went back to the loan to pay the staff's salary and to pay the loans. What was done in Turkey when support and grants were given in many countries around the world? The banks have been shown. Go to the bank, borrow from the bank, return your debts." They said. KGF support has been given; agencies have been given KGF support, here, the hotels have been given KGF support. Brother, it's a loan. But what did the world do? For example, Germany has supported tour operators, travel agencies and tourism housing and other sectors half the tax they paid in 2019, and many of them are grants. Look, I'll count a few countries. And a lot of them. In this sector, as in other sectors -- industry, manufacturing, business -- there was no grant in any way. Hong Kong donated between $2,500 and $25,000 to unlicensed travel agencies because there was no such crisis in the history of the world, so people were given this support because they couldn't travel. He's got $90 million in grants on the check, and he's distributed them all over the industry. Georgia, a small country, right next to us, wiped out most of the taxes that tourism companies should have paid in 2020. Again, Australia gave away $6,500 to tour operators who owned between $25,000 and $100,000. Look, the guides were never discussed. They're the workers who carry the biggest burden of this industry, and I've never heard of anything being said about guides. Singapore donated a thousand dollars a month to guides. We don't have a dime, guys. We don't have a dime for the industry. The United Kingdom, England, was granted between 15,000 and 50,000 pounds. We just sang Germany. Now, all right, these are like this, well, you didn't, at least you could do this: you know, early booking, early October, and when the pandemic started, all the early reservations were taken care of. All the countries in the world that took tourist clients had given support here, so, brother, don't ask for your money. I guarantee it, and I guarantee it as a government. Come next year, take a vacation at any time you want. He guaranteed it, and those people trusted that country and they didn't want its support and money. All the people of the world who were booked early in Turkey wanted their money back, and the tour operators, agencies and hotels in this sector had to pay for it. That's why they're stuck in a debt debt of 140 billion. In a situation where there are no tour operators, where there are no national tour operators, it's a dream to wait for tourists in this country, or to get into the hands of strangers, and they can market our beaches at any price they want. So they were local, national agents and tour operators who needed to be supported, and so far no support has been given outside of KGF support. Minister, there's another issue -- I don't know what institution you're going to be standing on here with, and I don't know which institution you're going to do it with -- it's probably the BDDK -- it's probably being evaluated by experts who sent out $100 million tourism facilities. It's going to ruin the hotel that's already in the bank of credit, and maybe cause the properties to change hands. (HPP) Please do your part here as Ministry. At the same time, there are tradesmen who rent facilities in the Ministry of Tourism; small small businesses. Thank you for postponing their rent, but from New Year's, starting January 1st, let's collect them immediately. Something called this was discovered, and there's no chance of paying, because the tourist didn't come, and since the tourist didn't come, they didn't have to shop, and they needed bread to take home without shopping. So put them off, donate some of them, at least as a symbolic figure, we've provided a grant for something. You also said that if you buy Sertifika, she can eat in your restaurants when the tourists arrive. If you get a safety certificate from this, I will not close your restaurants. It means that you have closed them all with other restaurants and restaurants. Then why did you bring this certificate requirement and those people, those poor people, they invested a lot of money? Now that none of them can open their shop, they're all screwed. And, you know, friends, hotels do shows for Christmas, and people spend their holidays at hotels for Christmas. Unfortunately, the 10:00 practice also applies to hotels. At 10:00 p.m., you'll close the hotel, cut the music. All reservations are canceled. Please give this a hand, at least let the tourists in the industry take a breath and open their hotels. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Secretary, let me ask you something: you're sitting in the most important office of the state, and while you're sitting in this office, you can go buy a hotel in Bodrum, and the property of that hotel is assigned to the Ministry of Tourism. Now please explain how to be a landlord and a tenant here.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0217par0215	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0216par0216	I'll finish right away, Mr. President. One more question. There were only two small areas left in Belk and Kadiriye, where the people took advantage of the day-to-day facilities, in Antalya, and these areas -- you know, many of them -- were assigned three hotels. We don't know who it was made for. Those areas were already tiny, half gone, three hotels allocated. Who are these allocations to, Mr. Secretary? We want to learn here. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here's the thing about the TURSAB. We've already got 12,000 agents down, folks, 12,000 down. The top institution of these agencies is TURSAB. I asked you last year, and I'm asking you this year. You held a meeting recently to discuss the problems of the sector with the person who was the president of the TÜRSA in the past term, and you had him sit next to you. The president of that era is currently on trial for a fake ticket.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0218par0221	I'll take your last word.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0216par0222	That's my last sentence. You don't have the current president, you're not invited, you're allowed to sit next to the former president on trial. What message do you give from here? [[Applause from CHP rows]] And I'm ending up with this whole Cappadocia thing. Cappadocia, the world heritage, is a place of millions of years; our eyeball, the whole world knows this place, even if it doesn't, half the world has come, the most important center for cultural tourism. A Canadian company here was given a gold-mining license. The Canadian firm is drilling holes right now, destroying this place and underground. There are a lot of underground cities here, friends, a lot of underground cities. This cultural heritage will be destroyed. ▪ The future of coupons from cultural tourism, which we have always wanted, will be destroyed, and the future of coupons will be 2,500 euros, 3,000 euros -- a place he has given to sleepovers, a place he has paid to stay -- will also be destroyed, and there will be hotel construction all over it. Do you mean? We're curious about all this. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You can't leave here without finally telling me the solutions. Continue to give your VAT support to the sector until at least the end of 2021 and give direct support to local operators. We have to finish our promise here. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0219par0228	I think you should give the Minister the part of the text's solution proposals.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0216par0229	I give you all my compliments, and I thank you, and I think it would be in your best interest if you said so. My respects.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0219par0232	Thank you, Mr. Osman Budak. Now, it's up to Mr. Sera Kadıgil, the Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Kadigil.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0220par0236	I salute the General Assembly. I made a commitment this year to the Ministry of Culture budget, as every year. Mr. Secretary, welcome first. I've actually prepared a more enjoyable speech for you. In a few years, I was going to tell you what I was going to do when I became Minister of Culture at the General Assembly. But I have to make another speech, Mr. Secretary, because I'm very upset and very angry. Because there's been such a murder last week that we've watched a murder at the State Theatre Directorate that I don't feel like talking about anything else on the screen. I'm going to tell you the anatomy of a murder today, the anatomy of Ali Cem Köroğlu's murder. Ali Cem Köroglu was one of the most valuable designers the DT has ever raised. He wasn't the only one, and he was one of the favorite people, I assure you. So I'm going to tell you this because I don't think you know all the details, and I'm going to ask you, Mr. Secretary, when this conversation is over, I'm going to ask you to pick up the phone and remove your director of the Izmir State Theatre, your director of State Theatres, and your deputy minister in charge of all this. That's why I'm having this conversation, Minister. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, like I said, Ali Cem Köroglu... in order for me to tell this story, I have to first tell you about the son of the Governor General of State Theatres... which is very painful for me to tell. Mustafa is what I call a brother. So I want you to know that, too. Not only do I think he's a Ministry of Culture bureaucrat, I think he's close to the AKP, but I'm asking you to dismiss a person I call "brother" right now. Because... he has a son who graduated two years ago. Like I said, he graduated two years ago. While his colleagues have yet to get a job as waiters in various parts of the country, this young friend is talented enough to take the lead in three plays, so good, he's in the Izmir State Theatre. He had his last play, the Ants/There was a War. This game premiered last Tuesday. Turns out this is our talented Mr. Kurt. Then, not one, not five, look, there were 19 Covids from the team, and as I said, we lost Ali Cem Hodja last Saturday. He's got one brother in life, only family, and he's still in the hospital. So, where's the murder in that? Couldn't he have gotten it from someone else? And when this conversation is over, why do I want these people dismissed? I'll give you a short window of time -- especially if the lawyers listen carefully -- on Wednesday (November 18th) the DT General Manager's wife leaves Ankara for her son's premiere, leaving İzmir. On Saturday, November 21st, the DT Director's corona test came back positive. On Tuesday (November 24th), the principal's son's play of one person is being premiered. Wednesday, November 25th, the leading man runs first thing in the morning to the corona test, and he's positive. The next day Ali Cem Köroglu and all the other people who work in this game -- they don't get DTs on their own, they go to the hospital, Ali Cemda Covid comes out. On Saturday, December 5th, Ali Cem Hodja dies. 6 a.m. Sunday, 6 a.m. on December 6th, God bless, our State Theaters are sending this message to all of our staff, 6 a.m. Ali Cem Hodja, who died the night before, has just come to their senses and invited all his staff to take a scan of the State Theatres. What I'm asking is, really, if you had thought up this message and thrown it away before this person died, what would have been missing from our lives? I'm really curious about that. I want to ask if it's that simple. Can it be that simple to kill a person? Let's just say by coincidence, let's just say that someone else did, and I'd really like one of you to come out and answer me the following questions: Why doesn't the General Manager call his wife and Izwar as soon as Covid is positive? Or why did we see each other just three days ago, and you get a test, and you go to the boy, and you stay in the same house, and he doesn't say, "This boy's going to the premiere." Or does he, but does the Director of Izmir State Theatres not take it seriously? Why don't his son and his wife live in the same house, but we're in touch. They say, "We're in touch." They don't live in the house? Why doesn't the DT Director inform the filament teams that your wife is in contact? If it's more serious, why isn't it done? Why is there a Covid contact playing there? Who lets you do that? How does he let you do that? I mean, I'd like to say that I don't think that even a young player would want to go and infect his colleagues with Covid, but who did? How could the State Theatre allow this? You have to give me the answers to these questions, Mr. Secretary. (CHP) How did the Izmir DT Director know how to get out and give a cool interview, and allow it? How did your Deputy Minister, who sits behind you, allow this to happen? How could you, Mr. Secretary? I mean, I'm angry. I'm sorry. I've been wondering if that's why you've been keeping these institutions in motion for a month, not 70 years of art institutions because of artists, but because I'm going to run them. I mean, believe it or not, it's been eating me up for two or three days. We discussed budgets on November 2nd, didn't we? In exchange, I told you about me. I've been saying for three days that if I were in the budget to talk about private theaters instead of public theaters, would Ali Cem Hodja still be alive? I'm sorry. I mean, believe me, I don't know what happens if I say it. (CHEERING) I'm sorry. I mean, I can't sleep well, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0221par0244	Let's complete it, Mr. Kadigil.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0220par0245	Thank you. I really can't sleep well, and I want you to not sleep well, and I want to imagine that you're not sleeping well. So, where did I get these time intervals? I don't want to talk to hearsay. I'm a congressman here, but first of all, I'm a lawyer. God bless you, that bureaucrat of yours -- the director general of the Izmir State Theatre -- he's done an interview with a lifesaver who's already confessed to this whole thing. And it says, "We stopped all the games by taking responsibility after the test of the actor Kurt. After November 25th, our scenes are closed, they try to lynch him because he's the son of our General Manager. (Applause from CHP and HDP rows) We didn't play because of the pandemic, even though we had a crowd of staff games. When you call to relieve him of duty, ask him: How many people work at the Under-Stars game until the end of October? When the audience came in, we did an interrogation of the HES code. It's a bigger oasis.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0221par0248	Let's bow.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0220par0249	End of story, Mr. President. What happened when you questioned that HES code? They won't even let anyone in the audience know. In the front row, the audience is watching the play by a non-masked covidian player, and they don't call a servant of God and ask. Meanwhile, we quarantined our employees who tested positive for coronavirus, and we reported their contacts. He says, "He's lying." He didn't quarantine anyone, the players went to the tech team to test them on their own. And even the tech team says that two days later, they sent it to the decorators and they had it removed. So, in an interview where he confessed in some way, he was shamelessly asking for an account from Albany Antmen. I give you the answer: You are the ignorant, you are the heartless, you are the irresponsible, you are the principal of the lzmir DT. And you're gonna leave that seat. (CHEERING) What do you have to do? Immediately, immediately, today you must stop all rehearsals and games of the DT and the DOB. If there is any negligence in the murder of Ali Cem Köroğlu, you must remove these people immediately to question them so that a fair investigation can be carried out. And most of all, as I said, if you're a little upset about what I'm saying, if you expect the artists of State Theaters to respect you a little bit, by putting out this fire... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and by the end of today you are obliged to give me and all the artists of State Theaters this good news, Mr. Secretary. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0222par0255	Now, it's time for the speech of Mr. Özcan Purcu. Here you go, Mr. Purçu.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0223par0258	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all on behalf of myself and the people of Izmir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You know what a citizen thinks about budgets, guys? Debt and taxes are coming in. He says, "Woe to me! Now they're going to charge us again; they're going to spend it, we're going to pay it. They will raise taxes and bend our backs, and they will not give what they have received to the citizens, he says. That's what the citizen knows, that's what he says. So just so you know, this December and January are afraid of citizens. I wish you'd handled it well so the citizen wouldn't think so. I just got a speech from the Ministry of Culture budget. Friends, during the Covid era, all the artistic institutions, our artists, our musicians are in a difficult situation, but a servant of God looks at them, or friends... the theatre closes, our artists are in trouble, they can't get along. Our artists don't even have proper laws, they can't even retire. The musicians, our traditions, our cultures, the musicians who know the works, the songs, the songs, the songs of hundreds of years, they've been hungry for nine months, and they've been knocking on their door, and they don't say, "What are you doing? What are you doing?" Friends, the Ankara Art Theatre closed down two days ago; it's been fifty-eight years, Minister. Minister, the theatre has closed for 58 years, what will you do about the Ankara Art Theatre? (HPP) It was an institution that raised many of our artists, our performers, representing our tradition, our culture, and I'm going to ask you to do something about it. As for the musicians, friends, like I said, there's no musician's code, they can't retire. If he goes to work, he eats bread, and if he doesn't go to work, he doesn't eat bread. He can't retire. They got even more difficult during this Covid period. There's no law on this issue that they're subject to. Like I said, there's an urgent need for a law like that, an artist's law. Now, in the Covid era, the heart wants us to use the budget for citizens, but when we look at the budget, we don't see it again, guys. Now our citizen is desperate; the shopkeeper closes shop, closes shop, shuts down, can't do business; what will he eat? He'll trust his government, he'll embrace the state during the most difficult period, but the state has once given him a thousand lira -- to the number of people -- and then he says, "I can't do anything." So the citizen is desperate. We don't know what's gonna happen next month, but the good days aren't waiting for us, folks, just so you know. There's a saying in novels -- this government sells dreams -- in the novels his song was also made in Paris, my life in Somalia. The citizen is indeed in this situation. (CHEERING) Dreams in Paris, my life in Somalia. There's no bread in the house, no electricity, no water, no government. What are we gonna do? We live like Somalia. Guys, at least give this budget to the citizen, give this budget to the citizen so he can feel the power of the state. Our government is big, good, good, okay, but you have to feel it, friends, the government of all of us, we're all citizens of this country. Here's to our Roman citizens. They're in even more trouble, friends, because they make a daily living off the street.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0224par0266	There's Mustafa the spoon, Mustafa Kumkapi the spoon.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0223par0267	That's right. He makes a living off the street. So, the street's closed, what's to eat and what's to drink? Mr. Secretary, with your initiative, let me be clear, our musicians will be given a thousand lira, but do you know how to practice in the field? It says: 'You'll go to the PATI, you'll become a member, you'll get a thousand lira.' Is that a thing?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0224par0269	Shame on you, shame on you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0223par0270	Guys, I mean, is this politics even during the Covid period? He calls me, he says: Mr. Deputy, I am a member of the Republican People's Party. Get me a membership in the Kolak AK PARTY, and then come back and we'll write you a thousand lira. Is there such a thing?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0225par0271	Who called? Who's calling, what friend is this?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0226par0272	Those who have no conscience!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0223par0273	They're artists of the years. They're artists of the years. What kind of a thing is that? Look, our artists, they're called guests to the Vienna Symphony Orchestra, and they're greeted with protocol at the airport because art is valued, my friends. We have our own artists here who are really struggling with hunger. Look, our artists, our musicians, they're really precious. There are no symphony orchestras in the world they haven't played, friends, but they can't even retire in Turkey. Mr. President, I'm gonna have to ask you for some time.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0227par0277	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0223par0278	Look, under it are the signatures of the government's ministers, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services. This is our honor, my friends. It was published in the official newspaper. 2019-2021 Roman Strategy Document for Citizens. I'm going to ask you something because I can't find it. Do the ministries know about this document? He doesn't know. The Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services knows, co-ordinator. Other than that, ask the Home Office, who's following? No one knows, because he's here on a mission. It's the Department of Sports, they don't know. Who's following this, guys? No one's following. Look, I'm going to turn to you on a regular page, you have action plans here: 2019-2020; 2016 to 2021. Yeah, you guys promise to do it. There's a government signature under it, the Minister's signature, so why don't you follow it? They say: "We will enter the Roman neighborhoods, to overcome the problems of the Roma's education. Here we will train 300 Roma. We will teach 500 Roma here. We will solve the employment problem, we will give vocational training. You have written it all down here.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0227par0280	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0223par0281	Name one action you've done since 2016, for God's sake. That's a dream, too, just so you know. That's a dream. Dreams Paris, life Somalia. Indeed, this is your strategy document. Friends, don't worry, I'll address our dear citizens: Don't worry, the Republican People's Party will do it like a pasha when it's in power, don't worry. That's what we're gonna do.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0227par0283	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0223par0284	Let me tell you one last thing. Of course, in our people, poverty is a lot, poverty is a lot, but in this Covid period, everyone started living like a Roman, eating garbage, buying junk because it's really no use to the government, my friends. We go out on the streets, and they write on the window, "If anyone wants to leave bread, let him leave it here." They used to call us here for work, now send us bread and food." Please join the citizen in this period as a state. Let's give this budget more to the citizens, but we haven't seen it. My compliments to all of you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0228par0288	What you're saying, it's all a lie. Which one of these is true? How dare they lie!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0223par0289	What am I lying about? Go on, see what's in there. Why would I lie?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0229par0290	Mr. Mürsel Alban is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Alban.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0230par0292	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've been promised on behalf of my group on the central management budget of the Ministry of Tourism for 2021, and I salute the Grand Assembly. The loss of life... this virus has also shaken the economy. Tourism has been the deepest, most severe blow in Turkey, as has been the worldwide pandemic of the coronavirus, which has almost all over the world. In 2019, 52 million tourists came to our country and 15 million tourists came to our country in 2020. In 2019, $35 billion was made in tourism, and in 2020, $11 billion was made; in tourism revenue, our government lost $24 billion. I wonder why. It's because you don't tell the Health Minister's case numbers in Covid's process, you don't tell the truth, you give the wrong information, you mislead the public; you don't make a sound out of the Minister of Tourism, you go to the Minister of Health and you give this data to the Minister of Health wrong. If England, Germany, other countries take us out of the travel corridor tomorrow, how do we account for it? The Minister of Tourism is here; I wonder if he asked the Minister of Health about this. Our country has cost him $24 billion. Dear friends, in 2020, the tourism industry lost 80 percent. These losses have happened in other countries. In France, Spain, Greece, as an example to us, such narrowings have occurred in France, Spain, and Greece. But what have the countries that have been shown as precedents done to us? Look, those countries gave their tourist a grant. He gave those grants to his employee and his business manager for free. But our Minister of Tourism didn't provide any of this, so while we were waiting for a performance from the Minister of Tourism, the Minister of Tourism used that performance in the wrong places. Look, dear friends, there's a serious loss in tourism. These are the losers: the security guard works at the hotel, and he lost his job. The cleaning lady was going to have a wedding, she lost her job, she couldn't get married, she dreamed, her dreams went to waste. The cook fed a thousand people a day, and now he can't support his family of four. The hotel owner, who owns the hotel you broke down, has closed his hotel, he can't pay his debts, he's in foreclosure, and he's in foreclosure. Doesn't that bother you at all, Mr. Secretary? These are the losers, dear friends. Of course, we're expecting a performance from the Minister, and he's going to support the tourist, but the minister's not going to support the tourist, he's a failure. And this is the Minister, who's done a great deal, and there's the losers in tourism, and there's the winners, and that's the winner, the valued friends. (HPP) As the country is ruled by one man's regime, tourism is one man's way. Why is one man on his way?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0231par0297	Turn the picture like this.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0230par0298	Here he is, the only man here. Mr. Secretary, you're here. He won't look because he's touching it. Dear friends, the Minister has shown his performance very well, and has bought the Hilton Hotel of Azerbaijana, which belongs to an Azerbaijan businessman in my constituency district, Mugla, Bodrum, Turkey. This hotel he bought was registered to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, under the management of the Minister of Tourism.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0232par0301	Well, well, well!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0230par0302	How did the Minister of Tourism get this hotel into his own company? How did you add a new one to your fortune when the tourist was crying blood, the waiter couldn't bring bread to his house, the worker couldn't get a living, the driver couldn't get a job, the janitor couldn't do the wedding? (CHEERING) You have to answer for that.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0233par0304	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0230par0305	I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0234par0306	He bought it with your money, yours.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0230par0307	My money, of course, with taxes on my money. That seat is the state seat, not the Minister's personal place, not his father's place. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Mr. Secretary, on behalf of all tourists, we have a request from you. In these conditions, this rotten, obvious budget has intubated the tourist in intensive care, but while the minister is in the coves of Bokrat, he has the right to a tourist, an orphan, who has earned a fortune, who has earned a fortune, he has the right, and they don't give you the right. (CHP rows) You don't come in here and talk across the budget of your Ministry, you give your resignation. We invite you to resign for the pursuit of public property into your own companies. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0235par0312	Eskişehir MP Utku Çakırözer is next in line. Here you go, Mr. Cacharouser.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0236par0315	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our High Council. If we're going to discuss the budget, the state of freedom of expression and press in our country is an emergency priority. (HPP) Today, the Radio and Television Supreme Council has become one of the most fundamental obstacles to freedom of the press. Look, the Finance Minister, who prepared this budget in front of us, has resigned. Wherever he was in the world, it was the first news story, but he couldn't find a channel to publish his resignation, so he had to publish it from Instagram. Even that message was able to broadcast only 5 ▪ of the 1,780 national and local televisions in Turkey. Does the RTÜK, which is supposed to be the guarantee of free broadcasting, care about the dire state of the press? No. The president of the RTÜK threw a tweet that night, so you don't have to be afraid of the TVs. But other than that, he's trying to turn the minister who resigned, he says that our holy cause is indispensable. Is that what the president of RTÜK is for, for God's sake? That alone is a good reason for him not to live in that office anymore. How can the president of an autonomous and impartial constitutional council, elected by our supreme Assembly, have a holy cause other than obedience to the Constitution, law? But if you are not content with your salary, but set your eyes on the barley, and gaze upon the membership of TurkSat, and of the Governing Body of the People's Bank. But then it's not a happy cause, it's a happy cause, my dear friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] RTÜK is the only man in Turkey who has eliminated the separation of forces, leading to places where public freedom of expression and press is insufferable. In fact, what decision did RTÜK make? What decision did the only man in the palace decide? The AKP President, who is also the president, describes media organizations that describe the reality of the country he does not like as the virus. When the president of the RTÜK stops, we immediately give orders to the president. But the President is also the party leader. Who cares about the neutrality, autonomy of the RTÜK? FOX TV, People's TV, Tele1, Haberturk, TV5, KRT, News Global, bans, blackouts, severest fines. Look, 73 per cent of the decision between 2017-2020 to stop broadcasting, 69% of the administrative fines are being raised to People's TV, Fox TV, Tele1 and KRT. In the last two years alone, 39 decision on sanctions has been issued to these channels. These decisions are all political. Punishments are unfair, unlawful, excessive; the goal is to scare the media organs, make the country's real agenda, poverty, unemployment undisputable. Here's the final Haberturk decision, completely unfair, completely illegal. The context is very clear what our congressman said when he told us about the Tank Palet archetype. Also, there's opposition, there's the intervention of the moderator, and again, it's obvious that our MP is insisting against those who want to take his words in a different direction, but the intent is clear: Tank Palet, let there be no talk of corruption; if you speak and speak, it's the harshest punishment for you! The president of the RTÜK is doing everything he can to explain. You can't talk about freedom of press, freedom of expression, if the end of the issue is touching the Tank Palete. He says, "But it's not a big deal when people are talking about killing 50 people." My dear friends can say, "We're not in a position of punishment." There is also the following: In the face of public pressure, Country TV has been sentenced to stop 3 broadcasts due to this creepy statement, but look, Haberturk is able to stop 5 broadcasts and fine him from the top. There is another contradiction: People TV is being given the harshest punishment for Ayşenur Arslan's program, and the reason is: Why didn't the server intervene? The host intervenes in Haberturk. Again comes the harshest punishment. I mean, wherever you're holding it, it's the contradiction, the way the wind blows from above. We know, and our nation knows very well, and those who have set up our glorious army, all kinds of plots along with the rest of this country's chief of staff, and the leader of the PKK, who have kept the terrorist organization in prison for months, are now in a glass of water, trying to create a storm and forget their own criminal partnerships, their plots, and their pursuers. But no matter what they do, we, the Republican People's Party, the Tank Palet is a country, it can't be sold.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0237par0325	Let's complete, please, Mr. Cacharouser.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0236par0326	My dear friends, the head of the RTÜK and the majority of pro-government members, do not simply undermine our right to be informed by their illegal behavior. If there is no color left in Turkey, if writers can't write freely, if our most talented players are afraid to make even the most innocent political jokes on television, it's because of RTÜK and the oppressive understanding behind it. Eloglu embraces free thought, science. Mars is talking about going to Venus, artificial intelligence, and we're talking about TV versus thought. Where in the world is this primitive? This censoring, darkening attitude also undermines the dignity of our great Parliament, which elects members of the institution as well as its principles. Parliament must show will, and it must establish an audit and austerity mechanism on the anti-democracy, law and Constitutional attitudes of its elected RTÜK members. My dear friends, RTÜK is also in charge of protecting its ruling and pro-government broadcast organs. No infraction reports can be filed against the president of the RTÜK, nor can any file be brought to the board's agenda.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0237par0329	Mr. Cakirözer, this is the last time I'll give you a salute. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0236par0331	Do you ever wonder why all the punishments are being handed down to People's TV, Haberturk, Fox, Tele1? Because the head of power and the RTÜK under his command is specifically having them followed and reported. This year, however, the channel our citizens are most complaining about is none of them. Tens of thousands of complaints have gone out about this ruling turquoise channel in just one day, but there is no report, no interview, no punishment. My dear friends talk about judicial reform as the power is trapped inside and out, that our place is in Europe. Let's go, let's go! Let's start with the RTÜK, which has become a censorship institution; let's purge RTÜK (RTÜK) of political pressure; let's really turn it into an autonomous, neutral, democratic institution; let's make the literature principles clear, clear, not changing from their political perspective. As a final statement, the RTÜK and Press Administrator, which became the club of power, no matter what pressure, whatever censorship, journalists will not shut up in Turkey; they will continue to report and inform our people. Sooner or later, there will be freedoms, democracy. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0238par0336	In turn, Mr. Irfan Kaplan of Gaziantep. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0239par0339	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the Foundation General Directorate. I salute the General Assembly. 19 irregularities of the Foundation General Directorate were detected in the Court's Report in 2020. A reorganisation is required for all foundations to benefit from tax exemption in an equal, fair and impartial manner. We would like to invite the government here to be more thorough audits of the General Directorate of Foundations, grants, donations, and assistance. Dear lawmakers, last year we went on budget talks, and we said the same thing over and over again from this bench. We said: There are no tradesmen, there are no farmers, there are no workers, there are no ITs in this budget, there are no teachers, there are no pensioners, there are no students, there are no women, there are no children, there are supporters in this budget, there are no workers, there are palaces, there are no citizens. Nothing's changed in the 2021 budget, and only the names of our desperate citizens have changed outside the palace. Deputies, along with Covid-19, brought with them the economic crisis, hunger, poverty, and unemployment. In our country, where minimum wage is $2.324, the hunger limit exceeds 3,000 liras, and the poverty limit is up to 11,000. Our citizens, with their pandemics on free leave, have been unable to bring bread home for months. We have millions of citizens who can't make a living on short work grants, who work on daily wages, who haven't earned a cent in months. Our unemployed, our appointed paramedics, our teachers, our college graduates are desperate. So, what are we talking about here today? We're talking about a bitter prescription that our citizens will pay to save the court's budget from the reputation of the palace. Dear lawmakers, what do we do with the dollar when the EBA falls down, sees positive, sees positive change rise, gives our citizens a tea of pleasure, gives them taxes for bridges they can't cross, gives them taxes for hunger and poverty, gives them the right to scold our citizens, sees the gift of free cupcakes, sees the good bread on the rack, and drinks the power of the AK PARTI when the EBA collapses, sees the numbers of positive cases that don't show signs? What do we do with them? What do we do with them? What do we do with them? A government that saw women's murders, job killings, suicides, citizens who couldn't bring bread to their homes, our shopkeepers, our suicides because they couldn't be assigned, a government that just took away the hope, the patience, the joy of this country, the joy of living. The Man who burned himself from unemployment, Job Dal, and many others. The lightning family, the adult brothers, the Delen family and many others... who burned themselves because the corn stand was impounded... who had committed suicide from unemployment... Emine Akçay, Ali Kassakal, Mustafa Ryadar, and many others... who ended their lives with cyanide because of the lack of livelihood... the Secur family, Delen family, and many others... who died from the construction of the press... who had committed suicide, Merve Serdar, İbrahim Yeşim Yeşyle, Jesus Erduz, and many others... who had committed suicide in the process of killings... Millions of people who have lost their lives in our country that you can't rule, hunger, despair, poverty, unemployment, and violence, are just a number to you, but for those of us with a conscience, compassion, heart, it's a painful reality. The days of right, law and justice will come to this country soon. The days are near when peace, peace, freedom will come to this country.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0240par0346	Let's complete it, please, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0239par0347	I salute all of you, he says, that the day will come when this deed will return, and the days will come when the budgets will be discussed for the people, for the work, for the equality.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0240par0349	Mr. Yüksel Özkan is next in line for the speech. Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0241par0352	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Republican People's Party Group about the budget of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, whose short name is OHR, the President of the Foreign Turks and the President of the Associations. I salute the High Council and the millions of citizens who are watching us on their screens. IN 2019, 465 million and 450K were earmarked for starting funds, which reached 515 million and 988000 TL (TİKA) at the end of the year, and costing $430 million 506,632. In the 2019 Court reports, we also see that TİKA (TİKA) maintains an inappropriate, unscheduled, unscheduled institution in the Court reports of 2018, and even more irregularities have been detected. Dear friends, it appears that TİKA (TİKA) staff costs in 2019 have increased by 24 per cent compared to 2018. How can you explain the unusual increase in staff costs at this public institution every year compared to the previous year? In recent years, the TİKA emphasised that there was a tender and a business door for the sidelines; in previous budget talks, the companies who wanted to be part of their projects were directed to the foundations of the founders, including the AK PARTI lawmakers. In 2019, the OHR received a total start-up grant from the central management budget of 353m,148000 euros, costing $321,533,000. In 2019, the institution received additional 73 government officials and staff costs increased by 98 per cent compared to the previous year. A total of 143 million and 55,000 euros were paid in 2019, covering 40.32 per cent of the institution's budget. However, the contribution of the scholarships granted by the OHR to the objectives of the following policies, the contribution of the students in our country's internationally developed relations, cultural, social, and economically; the added value to the globalisation of our country's higher education institutions; the progress in students' academic, social and professional development; the potential of finding jobs in their countries after graduation, is noted in the report of the government's efficient analysis reports on their views of our country when they return to their country. The report also states that the development of the internal control system is not enough. In short, the Court reports show, unfortunately, that the OHR administration has many improprieties in terms of inspection and reporting. The Court audit reports on OHR's financial accounts are reported in reports that the increasingly common bargaining method for giving public purchases to some of the tenders during the EC PARTI has been carried out by negotiating services, even if the institution's presidency does not develop the requirements for legislation. In 2019, millions of liras were spent under the tender he negotiated in accordance with the government's system. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, TİKA and OHR, they are from our diaspora organizations, and they have been established for that purpose. The efficient use of our country's resources is the most important basis of the budget. There will be sufficient budgets for these institutions to operate for the Turkish nation for its purposes, of course, but no one can ignore them when all wrongs, irregularities, are page by page, in the recent reports of the Court for the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0242par0361	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0241par0362	Dear friends, as it turns out, our country's resources are being irresponsibly used and in return, no control mechanisms are being operated. I'd like to ask you, what needs and criteria are these new recruitments to our institutions? Our institutions, which have previously been controlled by nearly ▪, show that different congregations today are also involved in infiltration and organizational purposes. What measures are being taken to prevent this situation? As a result, it is not possible to say yes to this budget without the irregularities in the Court reports, while wishing the budget to be good. Mr. President, as a physician, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to say something for 30 seconds about Covid, and I'd like to ask you for time.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0243par0366	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0241par0367	Thank you very much. Dear friends, do you know the medical wisdom? Dr. Hikmet Boran, who organized resistance at school as a third-rate medical officer in the occupation of Istanbul, spoke against the buffalo when he joined the Sivas Congress. Yes, dear friends, dear lawmakers, with this spirit, this faith, I bow to the health workers who are fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. (Applause from CHP rows) For those who have previously lost their lives to be considered martyrs, let's bring up the proposals of the law on the admission of Covid-19 to a professional illness, and let's agree to that in a unanimous vote. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0244par0371	The last speaker for the Republican People's Party Group is Mr. Hüseyin Avni Aksoy, Karabuk MP.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0245par0373	Mr. President, I salute the esteemed MPs, the High Assembly and the Turkish nation. I have made a promise to speak of Ataturk. In today's world, we have many lovers, but the Turk has no other friends but Turk. Our official language, protected by the first four articles of the Constitution, is Turkish. It can't be offered to be changed. Education in different languages weakens our national strength. Our Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is Turkish language. The Turkish language is the heart of the Turkish nation, its mind. Language is the skeleton of a nation, all organs exist together because of it, lives, sustains its existence in a healthy way. Today we are familiar with the holy language of the wise Khan, who spoke to the Turkish people in the Orhun Scrolls. When we say "Mustafa Kemal Ataturk," the first is the hero of our National Liberation War, our Commander-in-Chief; the second is the architect and founder of the Republic of Turkey, Ataturk. In the end of the Ottoman Empire, Mondros and Sevr, who had been imposed by imperialists, opposed a handful of their patriotic friends, Mustafa Kemal Pasha and his friends from Çanakkale, Tripoli, from Yemen to Sinai, from the Balkans to the Caucasus, were stuck in a narrow room. And he lifted his head from the map, and looked upon his friends, as if they had not breathed. It was the fate of the nation. Everything there was to be said, it was over. There was a cloud of faint sorrow in those steel blue eyes. Time's up. We won't be desperate. We're on the edge of a cliff, and they want to bury us alive. One last dare may save us, but we're moving to Anatolia. He said. Congressmans, this is the final dare, which resulted in the dumping of the Sevr rag and the establishment of the Republic of Turkey. The government is a unconditional nation. I am grateful for the Ataturk, who founded the Republic of Turkey and gave its sovereignty to the Turkish nation. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'll leave those who prevent us from calling our great Leader, Ataturk, to the appreciation of the Turkish nation from this honorable bench. Just a hundred years ago, the Republic of Turkey, called Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who refused to accept the Sevr rags imposed by the imperialists, is again facing the impositions of global capital, the imperialists. We will fight against these global forces and local collaborators in our homeland, the motherland, the country, the land of blue, and the sky, with the spirit of Kuvasimilli to the last drop of our blood. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We are grateful to our nation's national army. On the 14th of July, the glorious flag of Turk (Turkish) from this bench will surely fly in Karabağ one day. (HPP, AK PARTY, MHP, AND GOOD PARTY) Thank God our flag is flying there today. In the eastern Mediterranean, Syria and northern Iraq, I also refer to the Turkish nation those who defame our national army, who have won victories and triumphs in Karabakh and Azerbaijan, as Ataturk called the Turkish gate. [[A round of applause from CHP, AK PARTY, MHP and GOOD PARTY]] Members of Parliament, Karabuk Iron Steel Factory, known as the factory that built the Blackbuk, my constituency, founded on April 3, 1937 by order of the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, produced the first steel of the Republic of Turkey in 1939. Our Blackbük, a 13-digit village in Saffranbolu, is the 78th province of our country, with a population of 250,000 today. Congressmans, what's at stake is the country. Imperial forces are on the lookout for a rematch of defeat a hundred years ago. There is no other Turkey. The best way for the nation, for the nation, is the Turkish nation's alliance, not to stay in power at all costs, not to take power at all costs, but to divide the country like watermelons, not to invent, but to serve the subject.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0246par0387	Yes, Mr. Hussein, all the groups applaud you, so please continue. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0245par0389	While Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is trying to form Kuvayilliye, one of those around him who is desperate is Pasam, the land is occupied, the army is completely disbanded, and the great states are discussing our end. What good is it to Kuvaimilli, who you want to build against the mighty armies and navys of the victorious states? Mustafa Kemal replied: "It is like a pistol under the pillow of an honest man, at least to commit suicide when there is no hope to protect his integrity. " He's standing tall on the quad. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0247par0393	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0248par0394	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0247par0395	Mr. President, according to the Civil Code 69, I have a request for a non-bullying. Here, you're low. There's been a sarcasm against our group in a sarcastic way. This is an insult beyond criticism. Therefore, we have a say in this.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0248par0397	Here you go, Mr. Mush. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Time for your speech, two minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0247par0402	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we respect everyone's opinion. You can explain your own policies here, but on the one hand, you can turn to our own group and turn to the government, and you're low, you're rotten. We can't understand you trying to explain things that aren't really appropriate. Now, if you enter this, the first free elections were held in 1950, which makes sense that the CHP has been low since 1950, since 1950, because since 1950, it has not been in power alone; it has not been able to hold on with a coalition from the edge of its most likely edge. So there's no use using these expressions, no point in hurting each other, no nice expressions. Second, there were 300 counselors in Ashliya! Give us the names of these 300 counselors, and we'll deal with them. The VAT is 1 per cent of the bread, and the VAT is 1 per cent of it, dear friends. Mahmoud Tanal said something about MPs. There's the decontaminations -- let me make a copy to Mr. Tanal. -- he's donated a salary to the Foundation for Strengthening Turkish Armed Forces, and three of our friends.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0249par0406	Give it to the treasure, not there, to the treasure.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0247par0407	All 3 of them to the Turkish Armed Forces...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0249par0408	Did he or didn't he? Does he have insurance or not? Uninsured? Uninsured...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0247par0409	Guys... just listen. You asked, get your answer. They did their military service. Since this is the new system, sub-legal regulations need to be made. The day after tomorrow, you can make a friend a congressman, and that's what he'll face.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0249par0411	The law is here, it's ready; it's going to go to the Ministry of Finance...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0250par0412	Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0247par0413	Three of our deputies donated that one month, $25,000 to the Turkish Armed Forces Foundation, and we have their receipts.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0249par0414	It's not his father's money.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0247par0415	Now, you see, if this person is a public official, we're going to remove him, and we're going to take his resignation from our agencies -- as you said. Bring us this one, name it, we'll do the job. Dear friends, of course, we all have great responsibilities related to the pandemic, and local governments as well as the central government have to do their duty. You have a responsibility to the Constitution, you commit crime, you commit murder... In Istanbul, people are going around like a pile of fish, and first you have to sort it out. Mr. Secretary will surely answer... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He may not want to explain it himself, but I'll tell you: look, friends, Mr. Secretary will answer his claims, but I'll tell you one thing: look, the statement of rights, you've taken the state's rights... And if you know what it means and what it means, it's hard for the person you're talking about.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0251par0420	Could you turn on the microphone, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0247par0421	Just one thing -- look, Mr. Secretary doesn't explain himself -- he hasn't been paid a cent since he was a minister, so he goes to the Mehmetchik Foundation and the Dyslexi Foundation.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0252par0422	There's an invasion of the bench.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0247par0423	His chief of staff, including his bodyguards, will cover all of his travel expenses, not in public, but in his own pocket.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0253par0424	AK PARTY Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0247par0425	Now, normally, since he's the Minister, they all need to be met.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0254par0426	Mr. Mush, the Minister will answer that himself.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0247par0427	Mr. President, I'm sorry, you're right...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0254par0428	He'll answer for sure. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0247par0430	He'll answer any claims about the hotel. It was a big deal. I'd like the public to know that. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0255par0433	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0256par0434	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0257par0435	There's also a reputation assassination going on here, Mr. President, and you need to intervene because you're right there, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0255par0436	Mr. Tanal has shown proof of the legal basis for what he claims to be.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0257par0438	He's assassinated three young MPs, Mr. Tanal. Let us also restore the dignity of these brothers.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0258par0439	Will you please shut up... let me hear it, let me understand it, because I promise. If you want to talk, I'll give you my word, I'll get him off the stand.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0257par0440	Okay, sure, thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0258par0441	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0259par0442	Mr. President, Mr. Tanal has shown me the legal basis of the matter he claims, if you'll allow him to present it to the General Assembly. So Mr. Tanal accused Mr. Mush that he had made false and false statements. That's why...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0258par0443	Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0260par0446	Mr. Mush, it's a legal right for a citizen to serve at a price, but he'll be a member of parliament and he'll lose his insurance. If he didn't, I'm resigning here as a member of parliament. What right do you have? This state will deposit the MP's insurance and the salary will be paid. What does the law say here? This money is deposited into the central accounting department of the Treasury and Finance Ministry for the registration of revenues in the general budget.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0259par0447	Give me the law number and date.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0260par0448	You stand up -- this is the military law -- and I donated it to the Mehmetchik Foundation. You say that. It's not your father's money, it's government money! Government money! You can't donate it anywhere you want! [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] You shouldn't have taken it, you shouldn't have been insured. So, come here and apologize to the Turkish nation. Apologize!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0261par0451	Don't shout so loud!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0260par0452	You can't be a fake soldier, you can't be a fake hero! Is that a thing? You'll come in, you'll be a congressman, you'll be paid, and the Secretary General will deposit your insurance, and you'll come in and say, "I donated it to the Mehmetchik Foundation. It's not your father's money! How do you get that salary? How could you not give me information?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0262par0453	Shame, shame! That's a shame!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0263par0454	You're showing off, show off!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0260par0455	Now, look, I'm talking to the Deputy Speakers of Parliament: Two: did he get paid? Three: According to what law if he has received it? The answer is: "We have no knowledge, we do not know." Says Sadi Bilç. And what does that mean? It means he's in his pay account, so he's got insurance. Well, well, you took this money. You're admitting what I'm saying. I donated it. Yeah, there's no excuse for that, man. There's no excuse for that. In fact, it's the reason that the Constitution has ruled that parliament has fallen because it's not a job that's in line with the legislature. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0264par0458	Mr. President, may I have your word? There's a taunt with my name on it. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0265par0459	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0264par0462	Thank you, Mr. President. With all due respect, with all due respect, I salute the precious General Assembly. We're used to this kind of false exit by Mr. Mahmut. If this is not so, I will resign, and if this is not so, I will resign. He has repeatedly said, "We have never seen you do what you have to do; first I want to remind you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Secondly, there was a condition before, you know, that he had to have served in front of the MP, but with the new system, with the new Constitutional amendment, it was arranged that he should not be associated with this military service. After that, we applied to the military, which was our legal right, and we paid the price. In addition, during the time we served there, we went and invested a month's salary in the TSK Mehmetchik Foundation. The General Director of the Mehmetchik Foundation also called us. He said, "Thank you very much for showing this kindness, this sensitivity. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, while that's the truth, Mr. Mahmoud stops, unfortunately, and brings this to another point. At this point, our nation's discretion is already evident; it is obvious who is walking the road with whom. We respect the TSK, our Turkish Armed Forces, as an honorary element of our state. Those who do not utter a word of disrespect to the TSK cannot come here and threaten us like this. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0266par0472	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0267par0473	Mr. Mahmut, you've actually told me. He explained it to me from his side. You like it, you don't like it, you continue the legal process, but there was no bullying.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0268par0474	Mr. Tanal, if you're going to answer, ask Congresswoman Autonomous Affairs, ask Accounting.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0266par0475	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0267par0476	One moment, please, I can't hear you. Friends, let me hear Mr. Mahmut.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0266par0477	Mr. President, the law is clear. According to State Officers Act 657, we have friends who are officers among us, colonels among us, friends of ours in the AK PARTI. Look, they all know what the Military Code is all about. One is subject to 657, two workers; three, officer, whoever he is, when he goes into the army, he will do it for free, and his insurance will be cut off. There's still insurance in the House...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0267par0478	That's what you said, Mr. Mahmut.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0266par0479	Look, the insurance premium was still paid over that period. It's a scam of the House, a disgrace to the power of the legislature. So the House needs to get that salary. The Clave will register him in the treasure. He has no right to forgive whomever He wishes. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0269par0481	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0270par0482	Mr. President, I demand to speak of bullying.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0271par0483	Wait a second... After Altay, I'll tell you...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0270par0485	I want a word from him because of the bullying, and he picked on me by giving me my name.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0271par0486	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0272par0489	And I got a promise to wrap it up. The way I see it, there's a flaw in the legislature, rather than our young congressman brother. And I hope it doesn't upset our young brother that Mr. Tanal put it on the agenda of the General Assembly as a sensitive MP.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0273par0490	▪ Is he saying that by saying that he's a hero?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0272par0491	No. There's a flaw here, too. The money is deposited in the treasury, and the part of it is, in my view, the error of the presidency, rather than of our MP. With a very clear law... isn't that right, Mr. Tanal? While there's an open law here, I think the flaw is in the presidency, the President's Executive Financial Affairs. I'd like to present it to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0274par0494	Mr. President says he's a hero.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0275par0495	Yes, and on behalf of the presidency, Mr. Süzyya Sadi Scholar. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I promise you two minutes according to 69.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0276par0501	Congressmans, I salute you all. As you know, with the referendum held on April 16, 2017, our young were granted the same choice as the 18-year-old who had the right to choose and were reduced to 18-year-olds. There is, of course, a hesitation about military service in parallel with this amendment to the 76th Amendment of the Constitution. But the tailor can't sew because we as Parliament still haven't passed our own law. There are no other institutions outside of Parliament that have no laws. Likewise, our young friends... and Selman just told us that we've changed the fact that we've been in the military in the form of non-relationship. Now, no one has the right to blame three of our young friends if they have not carried out their duties as Parliament and have not made an adjustment to the 76th Amendment of the Constitution. In the same way, I would like to point out that in the matter of the presidency, the financial rights of lawmakers, the funds, the road and pensions of members of the Parliament are regulated by law. The law, such as military law, are not cut off from the grants and routes of members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, according to Article 3671 of Turkey, on the basis of its decree. The Act of State Officers No. 657 is hereby issued because there is a decree on the execution of these cuts. What needs to be done here will be resolved at the root, in order to ensure that our young lawmakers' military obligations will be left behind after their duties as MPs. There's nothing wrong with the Parliamentary Administration or the Parliamentary Administration, which neither our MPs nor the Parliamentary Presidency has applied. I salute you all. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Just for the record. The arrangement shown by Mr. Tanal is not about this; it is all about the Law of Militaryization. This is an arrangement concerning the transfer of military money to the treasury, otherwise it has nothing to do with your salary or your forgiveness. He is the general rule of the Military Law. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0277par0512	Thank you, wise guy.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0278par0513	Mr. President, I'd like to say something so our young congressman doesn't get charged.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0277par0514	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0278par0517	Now, these are delicate jobs. What I see here is that this is the answer to Mr. Mahmut Tanal's motion to question the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. That's a shame. If the Grand National Assembly of Turkey does not know whether or not a member of parliament has served in the military, then let it go. That's a very dirty answer. Mr. Tanal has also pointed out that Article 55 of the Military Law, again, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been violated.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0279par0519	Let's close the shop and go!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0280par0520	How would he know if he didn't?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0279par0521	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0280par0522	You want me to put a chip in your congressman?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0279par0523	The way the congressman petitions when he doesn't show up in Congress...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0281par0524	Mr. Turkkan, I can't hear you, please...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0282par0525	There's one thing I've been saying for the next time: the lawmakers are not right, but they're meant to be broken. There's a saying in the public. We don't approve of breaking the law. The law is to be obeyed, but...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0281par0527	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0282par0528	This is the last place the law will be broken. Here, Article 55 of the Military Law has been violated. I don't think this young brother of ours would be inclined to do that, but I don't think that if something like this happened to the young MP of a political party outside the EC PARTY, it wouldn't have happened to Mr. Tanal, and it wouldn't have been violated by Article 55 of the Military Law. As a result, let's call it an intervention from the AK PARTY of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, or a mission flaw; it's very clear, and it's sad on behalf of our Assembly. I don't think there's any point in this matter being extended any longer.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0283par0529	Mr. President, for the record, there's no way that the president is going to be able to process what he hears from the gossip or the ear. There is no official request for a permit from lawmakers who have come to our records, and since there is nothing, there is no information in our official records concerning our MPs' military service. I'm officially sharing this.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0281par0530	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0284par0531	Now you've blamed the congressman, but say it like this. 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The Central Management Final Account for Public Control Agency 2019 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2019 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Radio and Television Oversight 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2021 2) General Directorate of State Theatres 2019 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY WRITTEN PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Agency 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2021 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account YURTISHI ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, 2021 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Research Center 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Language Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Historical Institution Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Historical Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Cappadocia Field President's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Cappadocia Field President 2019 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0285par0593	Yes, in the first round, the talks on behalf of groups are over. On behalf of the individuals, the first word in favor of Hatay MP Mr. Abdulkadir is special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0286par0597	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of myself on the first round of round talks of the 2021 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute our Veteran Assembly. First of all, I'll begin by thanking Mr. Hüseyin Avni Aksoy, the Karabuk MP, for all the voyeuristic reminders and speech he's just made. Dear lawmakers, in the past ten years, our country has faced huge challenges, especially in the area of terrorism and the threat of migration, coup, financial attacks, natural disasters and pandemics that have occurred in our neighbours' borders. However, thanks to our strong political stability and the firm leadership of our President, our strong infrastructure from security to diplomacy, health to transport, and most importantly, our nation's unity in unity, we have overcome all these problems, and we continue to come. We have complete faith that we will overcome every challenge, along with 83 million noble, equal, free and honorable citizens, who know how to stick together in joy and sorrow, who are part of any political view, and who are bound to shed tears when the baby is pulled out of the ground. Dear friends, the gains our country has gained inside and out belong not only to the political parties and leaders who won those victories during its reign, but to the entire nation of our saints. As our nation does not forget these gains, so those who sign them will continue to live forever in their memory and in their hearts. As your brother, Hatay MP, as we remember our heroes, our elders, our martyrs, our veterans, as we are grateful and grateful for the establishment of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, our brothers and sisters of the Cypriot Peace Operation will always continue to bless and thank the leaders of the era, both for the sake of the establishment of the Cypriot Peacekeeping Movement, just as we have blessed the people who have extended their hand to save Karabağ from the occupation of Armenia and to build stability in the region. So, the political position and the political mind we call the "bekka" is the name of the national consciousness that we distill from this historical perspective and acquish. For 18 years, we've been taking steps to expand our economy and our national income and reduce external dependency in every field. As we take these steps on issues such as defence industry, energy, national security and foreign policy, we expect a more fair and constructive language and style from the opposition on behalf of its constituents. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, our local drones and SIHA are waging a decisive fight against terrorism, and we are no longer subject to raids like Actütun and Dağlıca, which have caused us great suffering and martyrs in the past. Rather than appreciate these advances, these toys are not like the ones sold in markets, they're like the drones. You can say, "You can do such an engine for a domestic helicopter engine with information on the Internet. We're amazed that you'd prefer it if you'd turn your mind, your mercy, your far-off lies, your manipulations and your thesis. By finding natural gas deposits in the Black Sea, we've had a dream of our country for decades with our native ships and infrastructure; you've turned your nose, you don't like the amount that comes out. There are even those of you who say, "This gas does not burn." There is everyone in the eastern Mediterranean, there is only one Turkey! It is wrong to have Turkey there without asking its neighbours. At the point, the Greek commander was right to search for the Turkish ship. To report Turkey to foreign media and international institutions will make you against Turkey, not on behalf of the nation you gave your name to, but on behalf of the enemies of Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Just last weekend, when the export train from Turkey to China took a short break for routine customs operations, you made a fuss about where the train is? Whereas our train, friends, is on its way to China right now, and those who desire it can look at that train online. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] A whole NGO can't be convicted on a case. The principle of personality in crime and punishment is fundamental. You know, if you didn't distort the word once on purpose, courage is contagious today, not many times it won't happen. You wouldn't face the facts of sexual assault in your districts and municipalities, you wouldn't be shot in your own claim. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'll put it this way. A young member of parliament has just been exposed to this accusation because he has the right to enter Parliament, representing young people. Hopefully, at the Republican People's Party, we'd like to see more of our young brothers and sisters at this time.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0287par0614	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0286par0615	I am, Mr. President. While we were doing a national ventilator -- a domestic ventilator -- one of the few countries in the world that had no problems with medical equipment -- even while developing countries were helping and exporting to other countries, they were seizing and piracing each other's planes carrying masks and equipment. Meanwhile, some of our companions were doing good to Cuba, some to Uganda. The opposition shouldn't be trying to say we can't take every action of power, or to interfere with legislature activities with the numbers of, or,, or,, or,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. We're not very hopeful that a few of the successes you've achieved in the local elections have cut your feet off from the ground and from the sense of reality, but as long as you're opposed to reasonable, scientific, rational arguments instead of false statements and social media lies, you'll have the exact same picture you've encountered in every election so far.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0287par0619	Let's say hello, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0286par0620	I'm completing it, Mr. President. We, as the Cumhur Alliance, have no other Turkey. We work with it; under the leadership of our President, we walk with confidence in his 2023 goals; with this march, we aim to increase and continue to increase the peace, prosperity, wealth, power of a Turkish community in which he accepts the power and activity of the world in the region of the world. I feel like I need to say it because it's just been said. I welcome Abdulkadir Mohamed Nur....who is currently serving as Minister of Justice in Somalia....with an OHR scholarship. What are the students doing with their ADHD scholarships? From here, I greet the Somali Minister of Justice with love. I wish our budget of 2021 to be good for our country and our nation, and I respectfully salute our dear citizens and your grand delegation, who are watching us on their screens.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0288par0625	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0289par0626	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0288par0627	The speaker also turned around and taunted us by not naming a party, but by claiming that we were offering non-responsive, non-lying, non-responsive numbers and documents on these platforms.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0289par0628	I promise you two minutes, according to 69. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0288par0633	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you and the Grand General Assembly. By God, every member of our Congress, in all the numbers he's given on this stand, in all the documents they've shown, they've put documents and numbers of the state of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0290par0636	It's all lies!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0288par0637	I'll sue, I'll take your $5,000. As a matter of fact, yesterday, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President said there was no way to make that bet from here. He said, "I sent the document." Well, what's he gonna say? I'll look into it, I'll give you information. So no lies, no lies. Now, is it a lie like this: I'm going to give two examples of the former Prime Minister's, now the minimum wage rate of the presidents in Turkey, and I'm going to leave this Parliament to its shame. The minimum wage rate of the Turkish President's salary is this: Turkey, which is minimum-paid, takes 3 per cent of its salary in Turkey; France, for example, takes 10 per cent of its salary; England takes 11 per cent; Luxembourg takes 12 per cent in Luxembourg; Slovenia takes 17 per cent in Slovenia; Ireland takes 21 per cent. So the minimum wage in Ireland receives 21 per cent of the president's salary. What are we going to give in this budget now? 3%. Is that the wrong number? It's not, it's not. It's your head that's wrong. [[Applause from CHP rows]] But I don't want to do polemics; Turkey saw the truth yesterday. Dear friends, dear fellow lawmakers, I've been following this House since I was a child, and every budget had a name; sir, the budget of investment, the budget of rehabilitation, the repair budget. Dear friends, yesterday all of Turkey saw this budget is a farewell budget. Congratulations! [[Applause from CHP rows]] 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The Central Management Final Account for Public Control Agency 2019 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2019 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Radio and Television Oversight 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2021 2) General Directorate of State Theatres 2019 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY WRITTEN PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Agency 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2021 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account YURTISHI ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, 2021 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Research Center 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Language Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Historical Institution Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Historical Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Cappadocia Field President's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Cappadocia Field President 2019 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0291par0704	On behalf of the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mr. Süzeyya Sadi Bilgicic, deputy chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Here you go, wise guy. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0292par0708	Ten minutes? Why ten minutes, sir?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0293par0709	Why ten minutes?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0292par0710	Is that what he demanded? So it's not 35 minutes each?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0294par0711	The CHP will decide that too!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0292par0712	I'm asking you this out of curiosity, not my place, sir.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0295par0713	I requested ten minutes because I think ten will be enough.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0292par0714	Yes, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0296par0715	Mr. President, is the CHP going to decide that too? I don't understand!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0292par0716	Yeah, I said I was curious! And then, of course, I'll get involved.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0296par0717	He wants ten minutes, he wants ten.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0297par0718	Mr. President, could you reboot my time, please?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0298par0719	I'll get started.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0299par0720	Let him talk.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0300par0721	Yeah, well, we don't get involved.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0299par0722	Let him talk.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0301par0723	Mr. Deputy Directors of the Group, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Speaker, our Deputy Speaker is on the stand waiting for you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0302par0724	I'm going to take the stand tomorrow, Mr. Group Vice Presidents, as long as it's in the power of the Vice President to make or not...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0301par0725	Here you go, wise guy.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0302par0726	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I pray my Lord that the budget of 2021 is a blessing for our country, for our nation. Yes, there have been some criticisms and comments on the budget of the House on this bench. One of the most expressed is equal pay for equal work; something that should really happen. However, there have been further statements. For example, there are expressions of ill-will, such as the violation of the law, and I want to make it clear to you in advance that we have never accepted them. Dear lawmakers, it is true that the fee differences in status varying are true in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, but according to Article 4/A of State Officials Act 657, as is the case with other public institutions, the Turkish National Assembly also employs staff in contractal status under Article 666 -- which is before and after Article 4/B, according to Article 4/D, and according to Article 6253, according to Article 666. Now, of course, this is a situation that leads to very different needs, pay differences. However, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, there is nothing we can do about it alone, which, in the budget talks, Mr. Speaker of the Commission has made clear his views on the matter. In the event of a general regulation of the law, our institution will do so. Another important issue: As you know, there are also salary differences among the 4/D staff members in our organization. I'm talking about our regular working brothers in the Turkish National Assembly administration - waiters, cleaners, cooks and others. The difference between personnel transferred from different departments of the prime minister's office to our Parliament and personnel serving in our institution is due to the difference in the minimum wage increase in terms of subcontracting labor. What I can tell you from here in the framework of the relevant legislation -- which is close to the time -- is that these differences with the first collective agreement will be largely removed from these continuous (permanent) workers. While the staff in our administrative organization is also subject to KHK 666, a number of work is being carried out at the same time as in other different countries' parliaments, as well as in Turkey's Parliaments. Again, one of the important issues -- which has not been said -- is the issue of severance pay for parliamentary advisers or MP staff. The same can't be paid under any other name in accordance with Article 30 of Law 6253. The parliamentary staff can't be compensated in any way or paid in any way. As soon as the collective agreement is complete, the wage differences in the 4/D workers will be greatly resolved, and the other will be dealt with in general. Another issue is the issue of written question proposals, which, here, at work, the Parliament doesn't say anything about it, Parliament doesn't react, the presidency is insensitive to it. That's not true at all. So I'll tell you this: look, it went up to 62.8 in the 22nd term; 85.8 in the 23rd term; I'm not talking about the 60.25th term in the 24th term; I'm not talking about the 6 percent; I'm not talking about the 45.4th term of the 26th term, the rate of answering the written question proposals has increased to 63.70 percent for the 27th Legislature period. Do we see enough? Of course, we don't think it's enough, but I'd like to say that the written motions to the Vice President and the Ministers, which were not answered by November 25, 2020, were announced in 126 separate List of Papers, which was reported in 234 separate articles sent to the Vice President and Ministry. So the Parliament does nothing about it. In 234 separate articles, the situation is stated to the Vice President and the Ministers. It has also been written on January 17, 2020, August 10, 2020, to show the situation of answering written questions to the Vice President and Ministrys, and in these articles, it has been stated that the answers to written questions should be answered and will be answered during the duration of their written motions and will be in accordance with the dignity of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Another issue is that the return rate, which Mr. Toğrul is said to be related to extradition, is only 1.35 per cent in the 27th term. It was 8.60 per cent during the 26th term, 6.93 per cent during the 24th term, and 1.35 per cent during that period. Look, I've been told that questions have been returned because of such words as torture. This is not true either, and I also have a particular example of questions that Mr. Toğrul gave, and in which they were mentioned in torture, such as "murder" and "retributed" and "unrefunded." When do we return the questions? When there are harsh and hurtful statements in Article 67 of the Civil Code, or in accordance with Article 3 of the Constitution, the State of Turkey is a non-divisible whole with its country and its nation. The written question proposals, which are contrary to the provisions of the Constitution or the use of judicial authority in Article 138, are still being submitted to the proposal of the Constitutional Parliament to correct issues that are subject to personal opinion and privacy under Article 96 of the Civil Law. However, there are also indications of what legal rules are against violations of the Civil Code 67, the Constitution of the 138 and the 3· Global Voices. Meanwhile, the budget has been discussed, and there has been talk of budgeting and auditing. Of course, by budget rights, it is the right to run the budget, but the right to oversee the budget is the Parliament's, and through the Court, Turkey's Grand National Assembly controls it. There are only 195 reports submitted to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in 2019, of which 190 are related to institutions, and you know 5 reports, general reports. Other than that, our court has made 205 audits of municipalities as private administrations or municipalities to be submitted to its own parliaments, and has sent the report to the relevant parliaments. Other than that, the report of 81 KİSCEs has been filed, and the report of these 81 KİSCEs is about to be submitted to the CIT Commission. In these audit phases, all the rules of INTOSAI have been implemented, field studies have been conducted, detection of findings, the answers of public administrations have been received to the findings, draft reports have been created, and these reports have been brought to the Report Evaluation Board after they have been re-interviewed. And when you look at it, I want to say that there really are extremely valuable reports, and that our Court has actually carried out a mission with extremely serious inspections. Yes, sovereignty belongs to the nation unconditionally. So does the new presidency carry out the Presidential Court or Parliamentary mission regarding the government's system? It is the will of the nation itself and the will of the nation in the referendum that elects parliament and elects the president and says yes to the government system, and we do our duty in accordance with the respect we have shown that will, and in accordance with the rules of law. I'd like to point out that I'm really very upset today. This is the stand of the nation, the Grand Assembly, and this is the bench, where we have been used by a member of parliament who came at the will of the nation, who sat here at this time. This statement, at the very least, is that May 27th's blood-soaked, couptic tyrants are obsessed with the Democratic Party...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0303par0740	Here you go, wise guy.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0302par0741	...a vision of the word lows, a reflection, a place in the back of a mind. But they'll know that on the night of July 15th, these people buried the coup dynasties and the coup dynasties in the dark pages of history. (AK PARTY and MHP rows) This nation, this saint nation, with its patriotism, its upright posture, and most importantly, dear friends, with its commitment and faith in democracy, has given the response to coupgers, coup lovers, coup lovers, incentives and agitators. I don't want to go any further. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit04spe0304par0745	I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0304par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. Commission? He's in position. Minister of Culture and Tourism Mehmet Nuri Ersoy for the administration. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 60 minutes.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0305par0008	Mr. President, I'm on the stand of the Grand Assembly to share with you the activities of our Ministry of the Plan and Budget Commission, which I submitted on November 2, 2020, in the budget budget of 2020 and planned in the year 2021. I salute you all. Mr. President, we continue to work with great zeal and dedication, under the leadership of our President, in the direction of the construction and purpose of a fully independent, powerful and leader Turkey. As the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of the Republic of Turkey, we are determined to use the powers entrusted to serve our country and our nation to make Turkey a brand in culture and tourism, to contribute to the spread of artistic activities, to increase our country's share in world tourism with a sustainable understanding of tourism. We have lived for two very successful years as a result of our work on these goals. In 2018, 46 million visitors were welcomed to our country by 52 million visitors in 2019. We've become one of the leading countries in the number of guests and in the number of beaches with Blue Flags, both as a sign of prestige. We have achieved significant success in topics such as increasing the numbers and times of archaeological excavations, extradition of cultural assets that have been exported abroad in various ways, restorations of artifacts abroad and abroad, the construction of education and health institutions in needy countries, providing education for students around the world, and showing the charity of our nation through official development. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, ever since we started our mission, we've been continuing to increase our support in the fields of culture and art every year. Because of the Covid-19 outbreak, support for the film industry has continued to increase in 2020. In 2020, as part of production support in the film industry, we supported writers, producers and directors with a total of 46.5 million liras, with 234 projects. In the 11 months we left behind, we provided a total of 76 cinema events -- nine of them abroad, 67 of them domestically -- 25 million liras in support of professional companies and organizations operating directly in the area of cinema. In addition to production and activities supports, we will provide 15m lira Native Film Show Support to our operators, who have 1 or 2 halls in Anatolia, in order for the sector to continue in a stronger way; we will collect applications by 30 December and start the payments in January. As a result of our ministry's joint work with our relevant ministries and institutions, VAT rates in congress, conferences, seminars, concerts and fair entry fees have been reduced to 8 per cent by the end of the year. Cinema, theatre, opera, opera, opera, ballet, museum entrance fees have been reduced to almost one percent by the end of the year. We've discussed the extension of VAT reductions as a result of our meeting with the Treasury and Finance Ministry, and expect a short time to come to an end. In addition, cultural sector members, especially private museums, art galleries and theatres, have been supported, which operate as tenants by reducing the rent stop from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. In the 2019-2020 art season, 6 million,100,000 euros in support for our private theatres were increased to about 3.5 times and upped to 21.5 million in pandemic conditions during the 2020-2021 season. 12 million of these were used as project support, 9.5 million as digital project support. It has been made clear on the website of the Department of Fine Arts, which is given to whom. Who's that? Where can we see it? There was a question on our website. We also arranged for private theaters to receive Cultural Investment and Initiative Documents in order to provide room support. The document provides a 25 per cent insurance premium in the business stage, an employer's share and income tax blockage reduction, a 20% reduction in gas and electricity consumption, and the benefit of being paid at the lowest rate in the region, including water consumption. In addition, as part of stage support, we presented our ministry's cultural centers and the halls of our state theaters to the use of private theatres from 1 December 2020 to 15 June 2021. We will give additional 15 million liras to our private theatres, with two new programmes under the name ▪Tourne Support (Tourne Support) and ▪Digital Theatre Additive Project. We're starting to get tour support applications, and we're getting digital theater applications up to 30 December. We'll start paying for these support programs as of January. We've formed a study group about private theaters. Very often, we're meeting with this group, especially in my presidency, and we're discussing all the help, how we're going to proceed from here on out, even the changes they want in the regulation, and we're going with them to make a joint decision. Meanwhile, the Ankara Art Theatre has come up with a question about the AST. The AST is also part of this group. In addition, the AST has also benefited from this year's state benefits, and I would like to make that very clear. As part of the Music Lifetime Project, we provided digital recording support for 405 Roma musicians in 20 counties. We've decided to expand this project for trial. On December 11th, we will announce with details a project involving musicians, music workers, commentators and performers with no income in the pandemic period. We're not going to look for an application requirement for unity, association or union membership. We'll pay a thousand liras per month, 3,000 liras in total for three months. We'll collect the applications in December; we'll make payments in January, February and March. We estimate there will be more than 30,000 applications for this project. There's been a false accusation about the lists, like who you're going to give them to. We prepare lists of people who participate in these projects with trade unions, music associations, and the MUSIC-SEN union, and I personally attend meetings. Again, a total of $44m has been provided for projects and occupational troops in January-2020 to strengthen the idea property system and run cultural and artistic activities. (AK PARTY) I would especially like to stress that about 50 percent of the payments made by these projects are royalties, stamp payments to people who contribute creative contributions to artists, writers, actors, directors. We've raised the support of our ministry's professional troops to $5.8 million this year due to pandemics. In our ministry, look, it's a very important issue, whether or not it's the Ministry's staff, whether it's a paid employee -- it's from a member of the law. As of January 2020, we solved a 25-year-old problem in our ministry regarding our paid artists. (AK PARTI) We have provided a significant improvement in their rights, increased their income by about 50 per cent, provided that they have the right to social security and annual leave, preventing any possible social and economic problems they may face during the pandemic period. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, the protection they deserve for copyright holders and the strengthening of our cultural industry, are the primary targets of our ministry. In line with this goal, the necessary legislation in the field of copyright, fighting piracy, training, awareness and sectoral support are under way. In this scope, we've prepared a report on the work that we've started to measure the size and potential of the economy created by the sectors that make up our country's culture industry. The report, written by methodology determined by the World Fictional Property Organization, is important for the emergence of economic indicators on cultural industries and the determination of policies in this area. The GDP of cultural industries is 2.88 per cent. The housing and food services sector, which houses 3 per cent of copyright-based industries in Turkey's economy, and 3 per cent in finance and insurance, and is very important to Turkey, contribute almost the same amount as 3.10 per cent. In addition, cultural industries create 4.34 per cent of Turkey's total employment. These are published on the website of the Ministry's Copyright General Directorate (web) under the heading of the Measurement of Culture Industries to Turkey's Economics. In addition, studies have been launched to create a speciality library in the field of copyright. Film and music works are among the most effective practices in the fight against pirates, and the bandrol is essential in books. In the first 11 months of the year 2020, some 412 million bandrolls were given, with an increase of about 5 per cent last year. However, the 498 operation, conducted by the municipal audit commissions during January-2020 in November, has allowed the origin of pirate activities to be blocked. By the way, I'd like to rephrase one particular fact that there is no control mechanism for Bandrol content, and there is no control of content anywhere in the world. So since content control was considered censorship before it was published, it is not done in Turkey as it is in the whole world. In a nutshell, it is not right for copyright holders to be shown whether or not our Ministry approves or disapproves of the publication content of the bandrol process, which is completely commercial to protect the rights of the copyright holders and collect statistics. Mr. President, our Presidential Symphony Orchestra, founded in 1826, under the name Mizika-yi Humayun, has a very respectable and special place in the world with two centuries of history, taking responsibility for being the first music institution of the Republic of Turkey in 1924. Our valuable institution, which has continued to work to raise its bar to present the richest repertoire internationally, has strengthened its staff with 30 young new artists. Our new building, which we have completed according to the achievements and goals of our Presidential Symphony Orchestra, is also the first building designed for the symphony orchestra in Turkey. This will serve in the Blue Hall, capable of 2,023 seats and 500 seats. The 600 historical CSO Hall, which the Presidential Symphony Orchestra has been using for 60 years, will quickly be restored and continue its operation. The music campus, consisting of exhibition venues and outdoor spaces, opened on 3 December with the participation of our country and the world's famous musicians. We, the Ministry, no longer invest only in buildings, create concepts to sustain them, and turn them into attraction centers. We will turn our new CSO building in 154,000 square metres into a cultural island with our historic CSO Hall and CerModern Cultural Center, making it Ankara's new attraction. We are also continuing our investments in cultural centers, which are of great importance, with the introduction of national culture and the contribution to social development. In addition to our existing 116 cultural centers, the Ercish Cultural Centre will be completed in 2020 and the construction of the Burdur Cultural Centre will be completed by the end of the year. Also, studies continue on the projecting and construction of four new cultural centres, which are intended to be launched in the coming period. Speaking of cultural centers, one of the major projects of our ministry is the reconstruction of the Istanbul Ataturk Cultural Centre in line with the needs of our age in quality and quantity. Despite the conditions of the pandemic, we have completed 80 percent of the construction in the project, which is very fast. The goal of the Ataturk Cultural Center, which will enrich our people's lives in all forms of performing arts, is to bring everyone from seven to seventy people together with fine art and superior works, to inform them, and to display a transparent sense of governance that monitors ethical values. The Ataturk Cultural Centre includes an opera hall of 2,338 people, an art and music library of 805 people, a children's art center, an art gallery, a multipurpose hall, design store, parking and cinemas. The Ataturk Cultural Centre, designed with the latest technology, will respond to the need of the arts institutions, as well as private art community and institutions, and will open their doors to international productions. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are a project of travel routes that will begin from Beyoğlu Culture Road Project, Galata Tower, Galata Mevlevihane, Tarik Zafer Tunaya Cultural Center, Garibaldi Theatre, Egyptian Apartments, Mehmet Akif Ersoy House Museum, Atlas Cinema Museum, Taxi Stage and Salam Mosque to end the cultural center of Islam. Culture Road will bring together many cultural arts activities from theatre to cinema, from opera and ballet to short films and books, from fine arts to traditional arts. On this route, we opened the Tarik Victory Tuna Cultural Center on 7 June 2020. We also completed restoration of the Galata Tower, one of the world's oldest towers, and we reopened it as a center of attraction on October 6th. The historical structure was used as a museum and exhibition site, free of eating and drinking and entertainment units. The Galata Tower has received an intense interest since its opening date and has hosted 120,000 visitors over the past two months. İstanbul Beyoğlu has completed our work at the Atlas Cinema Museum and cinema, and we will perform the official opening of the building in accordance with the schedule for the re-initiating of cinemas. Sultan II. A hundred and fifty years of building built in the days of Abdulaziz, in the 1870s, with handworks and especially ceiling decorations, is a treasure in its entirety. I strongly recommend that they see the film museum to our artists and to you in particular. The basement is one of our major cultural heritages, and with the completion of the second phase restoration of the Basement Castle, we continue to use this important structure much more effectively in artistic activities. Under the restoration of the Basement Castle, we have launched our 1,300-strong Kaleiçi Open Air Stage. We'll have finished the restoration of the castle in May 2021, and completed the work at the castle. Restoration of the Iznik Lotus Hatun Imagination was completed and opened on 3 July 2020. As an early example of Ottoman architecture, this artifact will serve as the Museum of Turkish Islamic Arts, which is very appropriate for its original identity. We aim to open our Ankara Museum of Arts and Sculpture this December to visit Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk on the anniversary of his arrival in Ankara, but we will open this opening on December 28th because of the restrictions on the pandemic -- the constraints at the end of the week. With a very qualified museum, we'll be reunited with the historic concert venue of the Turkish January. The 1st stage of work in the Sumela Monastery, which was taken into the UNESCO World Cultural Heritage List in 2000, was completed on 25 May 2019, and the 2nd stage was completed on 28 July 2020. Following these studies, parts of the monastery, which had never been visited before, were planned as the third stage, and the work would be completed in 2021. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, our series of films that have reached about 600 million people in 156 countries has become one of the most effective cultural diplomatic tools to strengthen the existence of our country abroad. In 2020, our Ministry also participated in major international film festivals, such as Rotterdam, Tokyo, Warsaw, Moscow, Sarajevo, and Cinemed Montpellier, and the introduction of Turkish cinema and our country. We aim to introduce 5 million of our children to cinema by 2023, as part of the Project No Children Left to Go to Movies, where we've had about 2.5 million of our children meet with cinema, but this year we've had to take a break from the Covid-19 outbreak. However, as part of our Children's Traveling Cinema Project, we had 300,000 of our children meet with cinema in districts without a movie theater. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers serve with the capacity of 27,209 seats in the 77 scenes in 12 decentralised centers and tours, which play an important role in our cultural development. On Tuesday (September 1st), 2020-2021 said hello early with 17 plays to the new theatre season, leaving artists in the pandemic process with their summer projects. Both adults and children's games were staged for theatre fans from 1 July to 1 September with the Truck Children's Theatre and open-air theatre projects. As the ministry, we adopt a strategy that follows major theatre productions and classical games, as well as new approaches and practices. To this end, we aim to develop the open-air theater practice, which is a very appropriate concept for the world's post-pandemic order, in 2021. Mr. President, our ministry includes 1,135 musicians and 2,369 operas, ballet artists, music, opera and performing arts, six established operas and ballet directors in the provinces, six symphony orchestras, 13 choirs and nine communities. During October 2020, 739 events were organised by our Ministry's art units and artists, and the 2019-2020 art season closed with 429 operas and ballet representations, up 15 per cent in the number of representations compared to last year, with an increase of 20 per cent. As a ministry, we have 36 art galleries that host exhibitions and works of artists across the country while continuing our activities on visual and contemporary arts with three museums of paintings and sculptures. We finished our inventory work this year by transferring 3,629 works of art from the Ankara Museum of Image and Sculpture into the digital database. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are the treasure chamber of Turkey's lands, the world's culture and civilization. With this consciousness, 157 excavations to bring our cultural assets to light continue in various parts of our country. Of the 157 current archaeological digs, 125 have been carried out by Turkish dig presidents, 32 (32) are carried out by foreign dig presidents. Despite measures against the outbreak of Covid-19 in 2020, the number of archaeological excavations and surface explorations has exceeded 500. With the support of our ministry and our institutions, the number of dig presidents, which were part of the 12-month excavation programme launched in 2019, increased three times this year from 20 to 62. In 2021, we expect all 125 dig presidents to be covered. In 2019, additional 100 archaeologists, art historians and restorers were employed as part of the year-long excavations, and 248 additional staff were employed in 2020 in archaeologists, art historians and restoration titles. By the end of 2021, the participation of 125 dig presidents into the 12-month programme will increase the number of expert personnel to 700. Our work on our cultural assets is not limited only to newly discovered areas. Studies on the extradition of our cultural assets, which are once found to belong to this land, have been carried out by our ministry mostly through diplomatic initiatives, as well as through the application of the law when necessary. In 2019, I can provide an example of the Chinese clipboard, which was returned from the UK, with 101 pieces of coins in return from Bulgaria, and the Isparta tomb, which was returned from England in 2020, and the model of the Tunç Bull Car and the Lidya inscription, which was returned from Italy. There are 65 other cases of legal and diplomatic work for the extradition of our country's origins. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we place great emphasis on the efforts of our cultural assets to be returned from abroad to the land where they belong, as well as on efforts to prevent the trafficking of cultural presence in the country and prevent illegal excavations. In March 2020, our branch office, which serves at the level of branch directorate level to improve its activity in the fight against trafficking, was raised to the level of office head of office, the head of the Anti-Trafficking Agency in March 2020, and the number of experts working in this area has been increased by threefold. It is also our responsibility to preserve our historical wealth and to increase its awareness by offering it to visitors who have come. At this point, our knitting sites and museums have serious potential. As of 2020, we continue our activities in this area with 199 museums, 142 structures, and 290 private museums under our ministry's supervision. In addition, legislation studies that strengthen legal infrastructure are being carried out in this area. The Istanbul Airport Museum, the largest airport museum in the world, was opened on 17 July 2020. Istanbul Airport is one of the largest airports in the world, with more than 15 million transit passengers. The number of passengers, which are 15 million by 2019, will increase considerably further in later times. Here is one of the largest airport museums in the world to come all the way to Turkey and introduce many points of Anatolia to the passengers who have never been inside. More than 11 million Museum Cards have met with the museum card app, which has been launched to create awareness in our museums and knitting sites. In addition, the Topkapi, Dolmabahçe and Gentlemen's Palaces, which are part of the Ministry's Çanakkale Area presidency, and the Galata Tower, which is renovated, have been allowed to visit with the Museum Card. Our work continues as a new curator of museums under the Muse of July 15th, due to the difference between operating systems and other museums belonging to our Ministry of Collections. We have implemented the multi-license Electronic Voice Guidance System Project to increase interest in museums and knitter sites and to allow visitors to learn about artefacts. In addition, museum visitors are allowed to share experiences, suggestions, and complaints so that our museums are able to repair their shortcomings and maintain constant supervision. The process of sharing is quickly passed on to them. With the implementation of this system, complaints were quickly resolved, and visitors' satisfaction doubled. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are one of the number of countries in the world, with universal values that are considered to be the common heritage of all mankind because of the historical and cultural accumulation of the land we live in. As a result of the work of our ministry, which operates on the responsibility of this unique heritage, our number of assets in UNESCO World Heritage List have risen to the 18th place in the year 2018 to Bebeklitepe. The file on the Malatya Arslantepe nomination on our World Heritage list will be submitted to the UNESCO World Heritage Centre in 2019, and it will be decided at the 44th World Heritage Committee Meeting. The Gordion World Heritage List nomination file was submitted to UNESCO World Heritage Centre in 2020 for preliminary evaluation. Beypazarı Historical City, İzmir Historical Harbor City, Karate Aslantaş Archaeological Field, Kormaz Valley and Zerzevan Castle were included in the UNESCO World Temporary Heritage List, and our presence on the list reached 83 pp as of 2020. Our country is among the first five countries to register most elements for UNESCO in the field of non-resistant cultural heritage. The UNESCO Unsubstantiated Cultural Heritage, which will be held from 14 December 19 December 2020, is expected to reach our number of items registered in UNESCO with the registration of miniature art and traditional game of intelligence and strategy barbecuing elements at the 15th Inter-government Committee Meeting. It was also presented to UNESCO this year, as part of the tradition of self -- the beautiful writing art of Islam -- tea culture, ballet craftsmanship, and the art of execution and telling Nasrettin Hodja jokes, as well as the common heritage of mankind. We've launched the Performance Management System Project to speed up issues on the agenda of the conservation zone boards, for the establishment of the purpose of reducing bureaucracy, which is very important to our President and which is the basis of the presidential government system, and for our citizens to be able to access the service quickly. The project narrowed the processing time down from three months to 30 days and reached a 92 per cent performance rate. As of today, there is no file on the agenda of the boards waiting to be settled. Mr. President, we're putting a separate emphasis on the Gallipoli Historical Zone, where the battle of Çanakkale, one of the most important indicators of our national union, took place. In historical areas, we are doing projects of restoration of castles, roads and walls, the creation of martyrdoms, cultural and art centers, trench resuscitations; we are trying to carry out memorial events of the unique struggle. Because of Covid-19, the participation of the ceremonies and events was narrowed down, while we had the visitors contact the museum site with two Crescents in the Shadow of Hillalin. In the first 11 months of 2020, the President of Cappadocia, which we established to prevent growing illegal construction in Cappadocia, and to protect the unique natural riches of the region, held 28 commission meetings, and reached a verdict of 795. In these decisions, there are decisions for new building architects, restorations, renovations and implementation projects, and 29 structures have been registered as immovable cultural presences, and 6 sites have been registered. Other than that, the decision to remove 201 different unauthorized applications has been made to close. The top-scale plan for the entire capadocian area and the work on the preparation of this plan have been started and activities are under way. Mr. President, in 2020, we were aiming to host 58 million guests in tourism and gain over $40 billion in tourism revenues. (AK PARTY) However, as with the outbreak of Covid-19 around the world, there has been a serious recession in tourism movements in our country. As the ministry, we launched the Safe Tourism Certification Programme, one of the first examples in the world, to minimize the negative effects of the Covid-19 epidemic on the sector, and to ensure that the tourism movements that have begun gradually lead to our country. In record time, it has allowed our airports to be equipped with PCR testing centers, to set up a mechanism for booking in hotels with PCR testing samples, and to do these testing services with a much advantageous cost compared to other countries, to close a year of 80 per cent of international tourist traffic in the country's tourist traffic, 70 per cent, 66 per cent of the income -- compared to our competitors -- with a lower -- with a narrowest -- in turnover. The Certification Programme was prepared along with its internationally-recognised accordion organisations and its leading shareholders in the sector, with the requirement for audit companies to operate in at least five countries in the election. This certificate, including PCR structures, is cited by many countries around the world from Asia to Europe; even the works of the Turkish government in Greece and Spain, which are called rival countries, are cited as examples to their governments. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) And the numbers are proof of that, and the numbers are relatively narrowing down from our competitors. I don't think there's any need for another word. Certification Programme was mandatory for 50 rooms and above housing facilities as of July 15, 2020. A congressman of ours just said, "If it was mandatory in restaurants, why did you close it?" You didn't follow well, it wasn't mandatory in restaurants -- it was voluntary, it was voluntary -- it was mandatory in housing facilities. And from January 1st, 30 rooms and above have been held mandatory in accommodation facilities, and no hotel has been shut down, as it has been certified so far.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0306par0062	You've shut down all the restaurants that are eligible for certification.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0305par0063	Sir?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0306par0064	In restaurants, those who received the document were also closed.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0305par0065	I can't hear, ask questions, I can't hear. At the point of describing our Certification Programme, we explained in detail the comprehensive measures we took to restart the tourism movement in letters delivered through our State Department to our colleagues in 70 countries who first visited our country. We also expressed our determination to implement measures against the Covid-19 epidemic in our country by conducting intensive phone diplomacy with our colleagues. Like Ukraine, Russia, and the United Kingdom, we've been hosting publications in the press organs of our main markets, which are constantly sending visitors to our country. In this case, we plan to host 1,225 people by the end of 2020 and 3,200 people by 2021. With precision and a professional program, we have moved ahead of our opponents, other countries. Mr. President, a number of support packages have been implemented in order to reduce the negatives of the tourism sector due to the epidemic and conduct its activities in the new normal order. In this scope, from 1 April to 30 June 2020, a notice prepared by the IRS Administration has been issued to stay activities such as hotels, motels, hostels, resorts, resorts; tour operator and travel agency services and booking services, spa, medicine, drinking, SPA centers and so on; and payment has been extended until July 27, 2020. According to the presidential decision on the detection of VAT rates, VAT rates of the museum's entry fees and housing and food-drinking services, which constitute the tourism industry's largest spending pen, have been reduced from 8 per cent to 1 per cent by the end of 2020. We've also given our Treasury and Finance Ministry an interview to extend the deadline, and we expect it to be finalized shortly. The 2020 dues, which should be paid to the Turkish Travel Agency by travel agencies, were not received. As of March 11, 2020, the rent costs to be collected were postponed until the end of the year -- a question had come from our deputy -- and our Ministry has been authorized to extend it to three months -- so we have the authority to extend it. A short labour grant has been implemented, and temporary employment guarantees have been provided for workers who have been laid off after 15 March 2020, which have been granted cash from the Unemployment Fund, and banning the termination of employment contracts have been imposed. The price of land use, which must be collected from documented investors and entrepreneurs from our ministry, which has been assigned public land facilities to build, has been postponed for six months from 1 April to 30 June 2020. The price of use by the end of the year has been postponed for another year, including those who were postponed with Law number 7256, which was adopted in our Parliament on 11 November 2020. It is also postponed to January 1st, 2022, when the law directly affects the tourism sector. As part of additional employment, the presidency has been authorized to extend the duration of the implementation of insurance premium support and short labour grants, which were put into effect by the end of 2020. Again, the management share of spas and thermal hotels, which operate with the Law No. 7257, adopted on 25 November 2020, has been postponed until 20 December 2021, without a requirement for application. In the framework of the agreement provided by our ministry with the public bank, credit support packages have been prepared and presented to the use of the sector. Travel agencies have been provided with continued business package loans, loan support for early booking payments to housing facilities, tourism and restaurant businesses, and loan support for tourist guides under attractive circumstances. In addition, Turkish-based tour operators, with foreign flag carriers, are organised in more than one country and bring more than a million passengers to our country, have been provided with medium-term credit. In addition to businesses in the tourism sector, a new tourism support package has been prepared for the suppliers of these businesses, which has been provided by the banks with a bond of the Credit Guarantee Fund to loan $10 billion to the sector; this figure will be increased at the moment of need.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0307par0076	Mr. Secretary, no grant?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0305par0077	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, Turkey's Tourism Promotion and Development Agency, which has begun its work in co-ordination of our ministry, continue its promotional efforts to describe our country's unique beauty as its new normal process and its presence at the top of the secure tourist destinies during this period. With air traffic coming on, we've done extensive communication with digital ads and digital ads on our main markets, all of our target markets. This summer, we became one of the most favorite countries in Russia, Britain, Germany, Ukraine markets for travel. In 2020, our television ads were aired in 14 countries. We also conducted advertising work in 57 of the most respected and read magazines in eight countries over the years. One of the places that we use effectively to promote 2020 is digital platforms. Our digital ads, which continued with 54 films in 82 countries, totalled 6.7 billion screenings, 1.3 billion views. This shows that we're the most advertising country in the world this year in the field of tourism. Turkey's global promotional channel is fuckgoturkey. It was aired in its renovated structure. The platform, which will help separate our country from its competitors with modern design and technological infrastructure, will present the country's cultural and tourism values to all users who want to learn about Turkey and plan its travel under one roof. "Goturkey." With its privatised content, the comIDE site will continue to play the most important role in promoting Turkey as a global tourist brand, according to the profiles of users. Under the changing trends, golf tourism, museums, cultural routes, faith tourism, gastronomy, shopping and so on, special introductions with 81 will now be carried out via the "Go Turkey" platform. The new platform will allow visitors to analyze behaviors, introduce target country based, build a destination model and design new products. With the platform fed on domestic and international tourism data, target market trends, flight movements and reservations will be monitored. Thus, with its unique structure in its field in the world, the "Go Turkey" platform will begin our country's digital transformation in the tourism sector, allowing for data-based and artificial intelligence-supported strategic tourism planning. It's the first time in the world; it's been done for the first time, and we're developing it as quickly as possible, and it's likely to be copied by our competitors soon. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Besides, we have established an organization that will allow our regions and provinces to be introduced internationally. In this scope, our Ministry and the Tourism Promotion and Development Agency teams have begun territorial branding and promotional work with 81, aimed at diversifying our tourism destinations in our country, providing brand integrity, effective promotion and efficient use of resources. Turkey's brand perception, over 100 main news sources, social media platforms, global NGOs, global tour operators and so on, thanks to the new digital tracking infrastructure created by the Tourism Promotion and Development Agency. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are the third in the world rankings of 486 beaches in 2020 under the International Blue Flag Programme. By 2023, we aim for the world's 1st place by rapidly increasing our Blue Flag beach numbers. A total of four free public beaches, including Cesme, Bodrum, Kadiriye and Belk, have been offered to our citizens in the areas where tourism is intense. In 2021, we will open three more free public beaches, including Antalya Manavgat, Belt and Marmaris Drinks. These facilities will allow our citizen to use the beach in a comfortable manner. Our Congressman Osman Budak has just asked about the beach in Serik. This is where the five-star beaches are built. You said, "To whom has the land been assigned?" You said, "The land has been assigned to the people; I will answer for your asking."
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0308par0084	We asked about the owner of the hotel next door. Minister, we've asked the owner of the hotel, and you haven't answered the plan and budget, and we're still waiting for that answer.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0305par0085	Answering your question, Congressman. This land was previously used against its purpose, and was cancelled by the State before my Ministry term.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0308par0087	We asked who owned that hotel, and you still haven't answered.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0305par0088	I'll answer them all, don't worry.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0308par0089	We're still wondering who owns those three hotels.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0305par0090	I've got time to answer, so if you'll let me take my time, I'll answer. Now, these lands were previously used against purpose, so they were cancelled by the State and returned to our Ministry. Although the land was large on paper, the right of verbs was not used to the citizen, and the parts that were already used as a beach were far above the need and were never filled. Now we've destroyed every structure on this land except for its purpose, and that's the first thing we've done. What have you done? If you say so, we have destroyed every structure except its purpose. Then we turned these fields into five-star public beaches. I traveled there this summer -- in the months of July -- and the citizens thanked me by cutting me off. We've been here for over 20 years, we haven't seen such service, such investment in our lives, they said, "God bless you." (EC PARTY Applause) People don't say it like you say it, people say it differently.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0308par0092	You took it from the people, Mr. Secretary, you took it from the people! You can't fool anyone with fancy words like that.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0305par0093	Now, as the Ministry, we continue to work at the point of the implementation of new tourism investments.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0308par0094	You've narrowed the 500-metre coastline down to 250 meters.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0309par0095	I want to know how many hotels were given, who were these assigned to.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0305par0096	Most important of these projects is the Fountain Project, undoubtedly the first stage of the Aegean Tourism Center. It was announced on 13 September 2019 in the Fountain Cultural and Tourism Protection and Development Zone.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0309par0097	Who did you give the hotels to, who?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0310par0098	You still haven't told us who owns three hotels.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0305par0099	See, the projecting and planning work in this key region was intended to be completed at the end of 2021, with the views of the Metropolitan and District and the Izmir Chamber of Commerce in 2023.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0310par0100	You answer the important questions we're asking, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0305par0101	So, we shape these projects by collaborating with the city municipalities and by taking their opinions and agreements with the town halls.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0311par0103	Who did you assign three hotel locations to? To whom have you assigned the three hotels in public use?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0305par0104	We didn't assign it to anyone, it's still there.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0311par0105	Three hotel locations...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0312par0106	Let's find out who owns that hotel, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0313par0107	Mr. Secretary, it's mutual... the General Assembly...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0312par0108	Let's find out who owns that hotel.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0314par0109	It's in place, we haven't assigned it to anyone.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0313par0110	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0312par0111	The people of Serik wonder who owns that hotel.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0314par0112	No, no, you got your answer, it's not clear. It's on paper, too.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0313par0113	Mr. Secretary, please address the General Assembly. Congressmans, please listen to the speaker.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0314par0115	The Ministry of Tourism can't give a place to anyone until they've tendered the law and the acquish. It's in the law, you passed the law, so you should know better.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0315par0117	I'll keep a close eye on him.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0314par0118	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the ministry, their investment in infrastructure...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0316par0119	You couldn't tell me who the owners of those hotels were here, you still haven't, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0314par0120	What if it's always a perception, it's always a different perception, it's always different, it's different, it's different, it's different, it's different, it's different, I think that the representatives from the tourism area are tourists, they know a little bit, but the questions you're asking really make me wonder.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0317par0121	Which one? Which one?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0314par0122	I mean, you must have learned a little bit about the rules of the territories you've lived in for 20 years. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, we, the esteemed MPs, continue to support infrastructure investments as the ministry. Last year, the President's acceptance of the mayors of the capital city at the Presidential Covenant began to be supported by the Ministry as part of his instructions on the failures and needs of municipalities in infrastructure. In this scope, Serik 2 Waste Water Purification and Connected Infrastructure Facilitys will be completed in May 2021, at the cost of $250m in Serik district of Antalya Province. Also, the wastewater treatment plant, which will provide services to the regions of the Muğla Province, Bodrum district, Baga, Redwood, Yaljiftlik and Drinks, and related infrastructure facilities will be completed in 2021, and the wastewater problem in these areas will be resolved. We start construction at the end of December. Precious lawmakers are carried on in 1,265 libraries, including library services, 57, traveling people, 63, children, and 7, literature museum library. The total number of books in our libraries is over 20 million. 26 new libraries were opened in 2020 and the opening of 21 libraries continue. In the 2021 Investment Programme, 43 libraries were offered. As part of the practice, which Mr. President refers to as important, envisioning the longer opening of libraries, 46 public libraries are serving in the form of a national workshop, and 125 of our library's service hours have been extended. New libraries are being opened in shopping malls, where urban life is indispensable. A total of four AVM libraries -- 2, Eskişehir and Istanbul -- have been opened in Ankara, and the number will be raised to 8 until the end of the year. Talks are also under way with 25 mall administrations. I would especially like to talk about the TEDA Translation and Publishing Support Programme, which has produced 75,000 works a year in our country and has been conducted since 2005. This programme has contributed tremendously to the expansion of our culture and literature, and has greatly supported the international development of our publishing industry and cultural diplomacy activities. So far, our 3,194 has been financed to be published by 631 publishing houses in 82 countries in 60 languages. In 2021, 375 more works are planned to be supported by translation and publication. It was published in 2020 with 4 matrix works and 33 e-books, as part of the Printing and Spreading Project on National Culture Works, which aims to record our cultural savings through qualitative works and transfer them to future generations. By the end of the year, eight more works will be published and met with readers. On the other hand, a mobile application prepared to be submitted to our citizens in the e-book format of our ministry's publications will be launched within weeks. The goal is to reach our young people in the digital age, especially the shortest way. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been established in our Ministry of Information Technologies General Directorate. Our ministry's database, TEHAKSIS, has been developed to monitor more effectively the operations of the occupational units under our administration and fiscal control of our Ministry. It is also intended that the current information and copyright rights of the works of music, cinema, science, literature owners become transparent and effective. Our next study, the Hitit Cultural and Tourism System Project, and the Ministry, aim to combine more than 120 put into one system of independent technologies, infrastructure, software and standards in their units. Once the project is completed, users will be able to access the required application via a single address, providing speed and activity in operations. A total of 32 museums, and a place where they can travel virtually. Gov. The document was presented to our people's approval and visited about 9.2 million times. In our accounts opened under the name Turkish Museums, video animations, interesting campaigns are regularly shared about our museums, and on our website, we have current information about all of our museums that belong to our Ministry. The 357 books published by institutions within the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute have been opened to remote access via the digital broadcast platform, with permits from the owners. At the point where services in the film industry are presented digitally, we have submitted digital applications such as film Support Applications. Mr. President, a total of 137 works have been published in 2020, including 56 new publications, 60 identical editions and 21-period broadcasts by the Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History. The release of 165 works by the end of 2020 and 242 in 2021. In 2020, there were a total of 683 scholarships, including 328 licenses, 137 Masters, 213 Ph.D.s and 5 Ph.D.s. A total of 2,037 scholarships, including 1,583 licenses in 2021, 168 master's degree, 281 Ph.D.s, and 5 post-doctoral research scholarships, are planned to be supported. The Ataturk Encyclopedia was prepared at the Ataturk Research Centre under the Ataturk Institute for Culture, Language and History. The work contains primary and reliable information about the events and events that have been effective in the construction of society, the inspirations it has carried out, and the historical figures of its time, in which Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk lived until his birth. The Ataturk Encyclopedia, with 600 topics, has been opened to digital access as of October 29, 2020, as a gift for the 97th year of the founding of the Republic of Turkey. Mr. President, the valued MPs, TİKA, operates in more than 170,000,000 countries today with 62 offices spread across five continents and projects reaching 2,000 years. With the support and protection provided by our President and our governments, the number of countries in their own country wants to open the TİKA office as a result of their contribution to the development of bilateral relations. AT a time when the borders were closed due to the pandemic, medical supplies and equipment became urgent, the TİKA provided serious support for the fight against the epidemic by reaching 1,350,000 people in the area of masks, jumpsuits and disinfectant, as well as medical project supports in 72 different countries. In 2020, the TİKA performs important activities in our heart geography, which is our very strong historical and cultural ties, especially the Turkish republics. The Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, which focused on Eastern Mediterranean policies, officially opened the TİKA Nicosia Co-ordination Office in December 2019. Our co-ordinatorship has yet to complete a year before implementing a total of 41 projects under the strategy established by our President. The project programme, developed jointly with the Turkish Cypriot authorities, provides significant breakthroughs in the development of the Turkish Cypriot Republic. Mr. President, the Yunus Emre Institute, which operates in a wide range of cultural arts from Turkish education to Turkology studies to our traditional sports, aims to increase the number of friends and friends of Turkey all over the world while acting on a mission to increase Turkey's international knowledge, credibility and reputation. The Institute, which began its operation in 2009, continues its work with 60 cultural centers in 50 different countries abroad, in line with the expansion of Turkish education, scientific and academic interaction, increased efficiency of cultural diplomacy and the goal of institutional development. Turkish education provided by the Institute at cultural centers is supported by Turkish and Turkish education, as well as by business units with educational institutions in different countries. On October 2020, with scholarships to cultural centers, more than 200,000 professors have learned Turkish as part of the My Choice Turkish Project and the Turkology Project. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are continuing the activities of our President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, who are working to strengthen the Turkish diaspora and maintain its ties to our country at the highest level. In this scope, the Covid-19 Business Association and Support Programme (Covid-19) and 76 projects in 14 countries have been financed, and a total of 200,000 people have been reached with the distribution of basic food and health equipment. As part of the Sila Road Project, Serbia and the Kapakule have been taken to serve our citizens at the border crossings. The report containing details of 254 attacks targeting Turks abroad has been prepared in four different languages. The number of 146,600 applications to Turkey's scholarships was reached in 2019 to 155,700. In 2020, 2,509 scholarship students completed their studies and joined the Turkish alumni family. Investigating cultural heritage works in different geographys such as Ahiska, Kazakhstan, Crimea, to protect, record, and transfer to future generations. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as the Ministry, we are giving life to thousands of foundations and benefits. As of the first eleven months of the year 2020, our Ministry has been assessed by 23 models of the General Directorate of the Foundations and of the currents belonging to the council foundation in exchange for 23 immovable floors, and by 18 models of renting in exchange for 22 immovable constructions, as well as 18 models of cultural assets, restoration or maintenance. In order to protect and transfer the foundation cultural assets to future generations, the labs have been maintained and provided with modern presentation techniques to display and protect them in our museums. For this purpose, there were only four museums in the General Directorate of the Foundations before 2002, while in 2003-2020, the number was raised to 11. In 2020, however, the Sivas Sky Medrese Foundation Museum and the Erzurum Double Medrese Foundation Museum will be opened in 2021. At the same time, the consolidation process of 1,500 manuscripts and manuscripts found in the Foundation Records Archive and Central Library is planned in 2021. As a result of our efforts to protect our foundation, 787 stolen artifacts were seized as part of the fight against trafficking, and the number of artifacts seized as of the first ten months of 2020 was 16. Our General Directorate of the Foundation, which is the representative of our non-management foundation today, extends its hand to people who are in need of charity in order to meet the foundations of the foundation in accordance with their will. In 2020, the number of needy people increased to 4,564 people, 78,780 people who took advantage of dry food and hot food services. In the Mihrişah Valide Sultan's Imagination of İstanbul Eyup, 3,500 people are given hot food every day. The scholarship, which started in 2006, continues with 15,000 secondary schools in 2020, 5,400 university students and 600 foreign students. During the period of 2020 March-June, when the pandemic was heavily monitored, we divided all our intensive care beds into Covid-19 patients at the Bezmialem Foundation Hospital, serving pandemics in 160 isolation wards and 49 intensive care beds, and we didn't charge any of these patients. Mr. President, valued MPs, by our Ministry of Culture Assets and Museums General Directorate, General Directorate of Foundations and TİKA in 2020, the maintenance, repair and restoration of 168 artifacts in the country has been completed and 366 studies continue. Five restoration and repair projects have been completed abroad, and 21 restoration and repair projects are under way. Writing is one of the most valuable treasures a nation will have, both with scientific and artistic values and with the ability to carry cultural heritage from the past to the present. The only way to make the most of such importance is to make them reachable, no doubt. The healthy way is that writing works are being re-created through detailed cataloging, digitization and publication. Furthermore, artifacts that our citizens do not even know the importance of and preserve, were purchased with value to ensure that they reach our future generations, which was included in our collections of 1,440 writing by 2020. Thus, the number of works that we have, including 216,587, and 453,517, increased to 670,104. These precious treasures must be offered to the benefit of mankind, as well as to the preservation of them. In order to benefit from these rare artifacts, our ministry is conducting Project Binbir (1001). As part of the project, the content of writing is provided to study and publish. With this project, the masterpiece and primary source of its domains are resurfaced through translations and similar editions. As of October 2020, a total of 1,406 writing artifacts were restored and renovated, and 220 more works are planned to be restored in line with their 2021-year goals.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0318par0148	Minister, the basement, the basement...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0314par0149	Yeah, I'm cutting the rest of it. In particular, there is something Mr. Osman Budak and Mürsel Alban have accused me of buying a hotel in Bodrum. Congressmans, I've been in the tourist profession for about 35 years since 1985. And since 1991, with my company, which I founded in 1991, I've been institutionally invested in tourism and tourism for over 30 years, with more than 6,800 people working for Turkey.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0319par0151	Go on with your work, leave the Ministry. Keep doing that.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0314par0152	What could be more natural than one of the highest turnovers in tourism, one of the number of tourism groups that has no investments abroad, one of Turkey's number of tourism groups who has no investments in it, buying and selling hotels within its original operating area, and, under any circumstances, Turkey's investment in tourism, Turkey's future?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0320par0153	The minister, the minister...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0314par0154	Again, and you've made an association with the tenant.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0321par0155	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0314par0156	It's like...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0322par0157	You're just investigating your mission?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0314par0158	Since 2003, look, I want to make it very clear that, like thousands of other allocation investors who have owned and invested in allocations, this firm, which is the state's tenant, has been made to look like it's happening for the first time, as if it's something new, as if it's a political thing, I find it very wrong and compelling.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0323par0160	Mr. Secretary, that's what the Ministry of Tourism sells.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0322par0161	It's an assignment from the Ministry of Tourism.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0314par0162	Now, Sera Haným, your incident in İzmir...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0324par0163	Guys, please...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0325par0164	A place sold by the Ministry of Tourism. You are now a tenant in a place of your own ministry.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0314par0165	Sir?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0324par0166	Mr. Secretary, go ahead and address the General Assembly, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0325par0167	I told you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0324par0168	Mr. Alban, may we sit down?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0326par0169	Drop the Ministry seat, trade.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0327par0171	Look, you claim to be tourists, you claim to be from a tourist destination, you don't even know what an allocation is. I mean, I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I've been here three years, I've been listening to you for two and a half years...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0328par0172	You're not talking about the budget, you're resigning there. The tourist is hungry, hungry, Mr. Secretary; the tourist is hungry, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0329par0173	Mr. Alban...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0327par0174	...you don't know anything about tourism allocations, tourism investments.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0328par0175	Tourist hungry, cook hungry, busboy hungry, waiter hungry. How can you add a fortune to your wealth!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0327par0176	You know, I can understand that, but you'd have to ask at least one scholar for two and a half years.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0328par0177	You hand in your original resignation, your resignation.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0330par0178	Mr. Alban, may I have the Minister's word?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0328par0179	Hand in your resignation here, your resignation. It's a place the Ministry of Tourism sells.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0330par0180	Mr. Alban... Let's address the General Assembly, Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0331par0182	You didn't even listen!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0332par0183	Ask questions and answers.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0333par0184	Let it be, Mr. Secretary, that you're a tourist now.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0334par0185	That's the state's office, the state's office. Not by taking the power of the government.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0333par0186	Let's go to the Ministry. Now, go to tourism.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0335par0187	Now, as for the incident in İzmir, first, my condolences to the family and loved ones of Ali Cem Köroğlu.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0334par0188	You can't build a hotel on the land assigned to the Ministry of Tourism and buy it.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0335par0189	I'd like to point out that if there's any negligence or flaws...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0334par0190	You let go of the chair, then you can continue your trade.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0335par0191	Mr. Congressman, you don't have to tell me, I'll do it.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0334par0193	No one will say anything to you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0335par0194	And I've done my best to this day. You're one of the people who knows the value I'm giving the theater.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0336par0196	Let's complete it, Mr. Secretary. I've already started the investigation, and I'll share the results with you as soon as possible. I've noted the other questions, Mr. President, and I'll answer them in the QA section. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The second statement on behalf of the individuals is from Mr. Sevda Erdan Kılıç. Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0337par0203	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a promise against you in the first round of talks on the budget. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, budgetary rights dating back eight hundred years are one of the most important achievements of the struggle for democracy. Decisions on the collection and spending of taxes in democracies have been left to parliaments, where representatives of the people are. Budget rights cannot be talked about democracy, separation of forces, rights and freedoms if they are denied or restricted by the authorities. Now, at the point where we're here, we'll discuss the budget discussed in the Commission for five weeks and vote in Parliament for two weeks. It's not gonna happen, but let's say it did, the budget didn't go through the House. So, what's gonna happen, what's gonna change? Of course, nothing will change. Thanks to the palace regime, the president will be able to implement the public's budget by accepting its own budget and raising it to a rate of revaluement. Now, when we return to our cities, the citizen asks us, where is the budget? It's in the commission. Where is the commission? Where is the council? The majority are at the court's command. What happened to the budget? It burned, it burned, it burned, it burned.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0338par0208	Mr. President, why don't you warn them?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0337par0209	Dear lawmakers, the institutions we're interviewing today, the government's roof institutions. When we look at the budgets that are reserved for these institutions, I'm afraid there's only one tender for a non-compulsive firm that's 10-15 times the annual budget of these institutions. But if we look at the functioning of institutions, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in its stance on question proposals, has already condemned legislation that has been neutralized by the court's regime to the arrogance of ministers who have no responsibility to parliament or to citizens. (HPP) Parliament staff, who have done the same work and received a different fee, also began with their attitude regarding Parliamentary workers in the Parliament. Especially with Enis Berberoglu, our MP, he couldn't protect even lawmakers' rights by not simply making a statement and inviting them on the mission. If we look at other institutions, historical artifacts from the national palaces have been lost, the RTÜK has been piqued in its allies, opera, ballet, theatre has been ignored, tourism sector has been abandoned to its fate, Cappadocia has been tried to be slaughtered, and the most painful of all, in institutions called Ataturk, the founder of this country, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, has been tried to wipe out the traces of his leader.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0339par0212	Look at the mayor of your own party!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0337par0213	Dear lawmakers, 18 years of AKP power and the Covid process, the work of musicians, was not considered work, was forced to sell their instruments, artists were driven to suicide by depriving social rights, actors and behind-the-camera workers were abandoned to hunger, witnesses to the music community of the age, and the art workers who were told, "Am I not a human being?" Dear lawmakers, the minimum wage in the last ten years, the price of rowing in the eyes of power, has only increased by four times, while the budget for the costs of the palace has increased by 36 times as much. Before Covid, the economy had already sunk; power had condemned people to misery. During the Covid period, the government closed its ears to the cries of the citizen, did not lay a hand on the citizen, but took a hand with the IBAN, even ignoring the citizens' right to live by hiding the real numbers. Dear MPs, as the last word, we, the oppressed, the laborer, the righteous, will all burn a candle together rather than curse the darkness, as Confucius called it. As the Republican People's Party brought the Republic to this country in the first hundred years, in the second century, it will rise like the sun over the country and under the umbrella of democracy, no segments will find the value of work, the light of the eye, the sweat of the forehead, he says, saying my vote is against it, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0340par0217	Congressmans, the first round of speeches is complete. Now, we're going to do the QA, but before we do, I see that some of the friends who entered the system in the first place are out of the system, and if those guys get into the system, we don't waste any time. Mr. Özyrek...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0341par0220	Thank you, Mr. President. SMA disease is a disease that causes muscle loss and weakness and affects mobility. Our daughter, Ada Dalarslan, was diagnosed with SMA Type 2 at 14 months. The cost of gene therapy approved by the United States and the European Commission for children under 2 years of age for treatment, even if there is a government-funded drug in our country for this disease, is difficult to afford for families. We demand that our Ministry of Health take solution-oriented steps for our daughter Ada and our other children who are struggling with the disease. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0342par0223	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0343par0224	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Speaker, you've helped the staff with clothes in the past few months; of course it's a positive application, but, as it is known, there have been several staff members from different positions and different institutions under the roof of the TBMM; a large number of staff have not received clothing assistance. Isn't there an injustice among the staff? On the other hand, has there been a tender for the clothing taken, or has it been taken from one firm, the price of the label? Again, in 2021, how many vehicles are rented to the House? Has there been a tender for purchase and lease, or has there been another purchase from a single firm? Finally, to the Minister of Culture... the Ankara Art Theatre was an important symbol of the capital. On December 6, 1963, the theatre opened its curtain and closed on December 6, 2020. For the AST who's already had a hard time in the pandemic, it's a lot more difficult times now...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0344par0229	Mr. Fendoglu...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0345par0230	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to our Minister: In recent years, Turkish museumism has been able to compete with world museums, as a result of efforts by modern museumism in our country. On that note, I'd like to thank our Ministry of Culture and Tourism. The Malatya, which has hosted many civilizations, should be given a modern archaeological museum in the UNESCO World Heritage List, which was proposed to the permanent list as of 2020, in its embrace of the 7,000-year-old Arselantepe Höyük. Our existing museum does not respond to the needs of our capital city, Malatya, as infrastructure and equipment. Does your ministry have any work to do with this? Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0346par0234	Mr. Pilot...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0347par0235	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 25th anniversary of the death of Ali Metin Tokdemir, a great case, a man of character, and a man of heart, a loyal faith that leaves deep marks on the hearts and memories. Ali Metin Tokdemir was the ultimate name of manpower, morality, nobility, and sacrifice. It was the wrist of Yavuz, and the volunteer of Jonah, and the alpine and ere of our day; and the seed that he planted was grown today. Without surrendering to absence, hardship, impossibleness, he lived his short life in faith, with faith, with the nation, the flag, and the holy land, with a short life in the way of the Turkish-Islam trial, with courage and courage. Their trust is our honor. On this occasion, Ali Metin Tokdemir and the great martyr who gave his life to our blessed cause, Farhad Featherless Brothers, with mercy, with gratitude, with longing, I bow before the memory of the saints.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0348par0239	Mr. Aycan...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0349par0240	Mr. President, our Constitution says the language of the state is Turkish. Using our Turkish properly is the duty of a citizen and a state. We need to know our Turkish in every field; we need to use it right in cultural activity, in trade, in everyday life. We support learning foreign languages, but we do not find it right to be educated in other languages, to be educated in science. Also, we find it wrong to use degenerate words in the windows of private agencies. This corruption harms Turkish. How do you feel about preventing these wrongs, using our Turkish in all areas, and what kind of work do you do? On the other hand...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0348par0243	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0350par0244	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the cafe and bar managers are on the verge of bankruptcy. They've been breaking registers before, and now they're breaking shops and signs. Coffeehouses are closed; cooks, waiters, busboys, all unemployed. Hotels and travel agencies are going bankrupt. As you have not provided enough support for this issue, you have also banned the sale of alcohol on the weekend of the monopoly dealerships in this country. What's in the fight against corona to ban liquor sales from dry-food and grocery stores on the weekend? Do you think these obstacles will be removed? I also have a promise to the RTÜK: Do you feel the slightest shame of accepting these insults when you are being insulted by lawmakers here? Japan has given 700 billion dollars to its tradesman, its people, and how much support do you intend to give?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0351par0248	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0352par0249	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, first of all, I want to thank you on behalf of the Turkish nation for rereading the sounds of persecution in Ayasofya, eighty-five years later. I demand that the excavation of the historic site of my constituency, Mersin Anamur Kören, be carried out in 2021, as well as a plan for the construction and restoration of the excavation and restoration of the excavations of the House of Alahan (AS/TK) and the Restoration of the House of Alahan and the Hall of the House of the World. He wishes you success, and I pay you my respects.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0353par0253	Mr. Kenanoglu...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0354par0254	Mr. Secretary, the village of Tokat Almus Hubyar is the capital of Hubyar Sultan January, from the root of the Alevis. Here we have Hubyar Sultan, the January founder. While the property of this place was in the country's corporate capacity, on January 24, 2017, the General Directorate of Foundations secretly seized it. The village's corporate personality sued this illegal seizure, and the court determined it was unlawfully seized, and on March 17, 2020, it cancelled the seizure and restored the deed. Now, despite the extradition of this court, the General Directorate of the Foundations has filed a lawsuit again in May to obtain the deed to the Alemi camp. What's the matter with you? In spite of the court's decree, why do you insist on confiscating an Aleli society? Are you going to go to heaven when you get the deed of an Alevi faith, to the center of worship? Are you going to be grateful? Are you going to be in heaven? What's wrong with you?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0353par0255	Mr. Axeman...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0355par0256	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how many Turkish liras will you spend in 2021 for Kastamon, who has a great potential to be evaluated in economism and cultural tourism? Is it considered that the Tasköpru Pompepolis Ancient City, the best preserved ancient city of the West Black Sea Region, has been dug up for twelve years, and will be taken among the ancient cities for twelve months? The new construction of the Castamou County Public Library, which was destroyed four years ago with the promise to be restored to a more modern building, has not been started by a three-year grant. Will there be sufficient funding in 2021? Will the library building be tendered in the new year? When will the Castamonu Tourism Master Plan, which will cover the road map in tourism, be complete? Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0356par0262	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0357par0263	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Minister is Düzce and Akça husband, the Mughlah of the West Black Sea, and Bodrum. How much funding and investment have been left in terms of tourism and cultural promotion for Düzce and Akça husband? My second question is, I have a lot of applications for RTÜK, I have complaints, but RTÜK does not take my complaints on its agenda. However, after me, the complaints brought forward those complaints of televisions that the political government did not like. So the complaints aren't in order here? What's the criteria, what's the measurement? When will you consider these applications I have made to the RTÜK? Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0358par0267	Your Highness...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0359par0268	Thank you, Mayor. There are 1 hydropower plants, 3 mining companies, 1 quarry, and many HES in Nurhak district of Kahramanmarash, my hometown. Now iron and aluminum mines are opening in the middle of five Alevi villages. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has made the decision that there is no need. The wells will open, the explosives will be used. Mera, agriculture and livestock will be destroyed. People's safety will be compromised. Reverse tulips, an endemic plant, will disappear. This area is 996 hectares, and there are many private properties, by the way. Courts are under way on this issue. Now, after the Maraş events, the largest migratory group of immigrants to Europe, especially England, are the Marasian Alevi. My question, especially the Alekis, especially in Nurhak, in Kahramanmarash.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0360par0273	Yes, Mr. Commission, who will answer the questions?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0361par0274	Mr. President, can I have a quick word?
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0360par0275	Wait a second... but we have to finish this.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0362par0276	President, I'll answer very briefly, and then I'll leave it to the Minister.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0360par0277	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0362par0278	Mr. Erkan Aydın has already had one question: one is about rental vehicles and the other is about the help of the working staff. These rental vehicles were already held under the 19th Article of the Public Contraction Act 4734, and agreed with the company that made the most appropriate bid in 2019. In terms of clothing assistance, the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey can only provide clothing assistance to members of its administration. In accordance with Article 4 of the Act of State Officers No. 657, the staff's fees are already added from their own institutions. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0363par0282	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0364par0283	Yeah, he's coming in fast, there's no time, there's no time, but... Now, Mr. Kemal Bulbül, our HDP MP, had an important question during his speech on Haci Bektas. On the grounds of the seven hundred and fifty years of the death of Haci Bektas Veli, UNESCO declared the year of the Memorial of Bektas Veli, as you well know. We too are trying to explain and convey the universal language and value of Pir, and this year we have completed the seven hundred and forty-nine years with the associations and foundations associated with the Ministry. Our goal next year is to bond these events into an international memorial and a narrative, which, apart from any political conflict, will be to make them continuous, in accordance with the teachings of the Holy Pir. In fact, we want to increase its awareness and efficiency around the world by participating in our international cultural activities. By the way, you asked me about the fee: for the last ten years, there's been no charge for the shrine or the community visits. The taken ones have already been spent mainly on the maintenance and repairs of the relevant locations. Again, Mr Kemal Beyin had a question such as, "Is any book published in Kurdish?" The classic works of Kurdish by our ministry have been published since 2010. Five Kurdish works have been published in this framework so far. These are the works of Mem u Zin (; Molla Ahmadi Jaziri (;,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, There are five books which have been decided by the Publishing Projects Evaluation Board, which continue to prepare for publication, which will be published this year. Each year, the number of books published in Kurdish will continue to increase. Again, there is a question from our CHP MP Cetin Osman Buddhak. Meeting the president of the TÜRSAB as a sector representative on a false ticket, not being interviewed by the current president of the TÜRSA. Now, look, I've had these questions before, I've answered them, I'll answer the question again. I'm everyone's Minister of Tourism, not just the Minister of one division. If any travel agent group, NGO or TERSAB asks me for an appointment, I have to make an appointment, and I'm giving it to everyone. The former president, along with a series of travel agencies, requested an appointment to discuss his problems during the pandemic; they came, we listened to his problems, we solved what we could, and we explained why we couldn't solve them. There have been nine meetings in my presidency with Tursab, the first of which has been attended by Mr. President. Mr. President did not attend seven other meetings in my presidency. Look, there's a meeting going on at the head of the Minister's office, Mr. President disagrees. The last time, he was invited to the Tourism Development Agency Advisory Board meeting -- the 9th meeting -- they attended it themselves, and he was already sitting on my right side of the meeting. I make appointments with anyone who asks me for an appointment, including the TURSAB, in the first place, to anyone who asks for an appointment, which is my primary role as Minister of Tourism, and I do exactly what I do. This question came last year, and this question comes this year, and I've been answering it the same way for the second time. Again, the question of Orhan Cakirs -- the GOOD PARTI -- and Cetin Osman Budak is: Nevşehir Avanos Özkonak is negatively affected by the underground City and Monastery's gold-digging activities, and that these areas should be included in the border of Alan's presidency. Now, it has been found that the practice was conducted in the site of the visit to the district of Avanos in Nevşehir district of Özkonak, Maksut Mevkii, and is located outside the borders of the Kapadocia Field, which is also listed on the additional map and coordinates lists of the Kapadocia Area, in which it is incumbent. So when this Law passed, you were going to demand this request, and we were going to include it. If there is such a demand, it will be reviewed again with both our Ministry and its relevant ministries, and if the Avanos region is asked to be included in the field presidency, it will be discussed, it will be reached. Again, there's a question from Edirne MP Orhan Çakır, about the difference in scholarships given by the General Directorate of Foundations, especially students from abroad. Look, now, think of the Turks going abroad, or the foreigners coming from abroad, all of these students going abroad or coming from abroad, completely out of the family circle and out of support, so there's an environment where they don't have to eat or eat. Therefore, they have to be subject to more positive separation, as well as scholarship criteria, not like other students. Whatever the difference is... that's the difference, the rest is the detail. There's a question from our Edirne MP Orhan Çakır, who says that the restorations in the province of Edirne are not being done in accordance with its essence, that there are still no transactions on some artifacts. You have said two works -- about the bath and the bath of Yeniçeri. Both of these are registered artifacts and property related to private individuals. Our Board of Monuments has to give us information about it in the end, when the restoration is complete, when this process is over. If there's a flaw in the audits there, the legal process will be processed to the end, and their punishments will be very, very severe, so they'll have to correct all of them, if they're wrong. As for the Sheikh Sucaeddin Mosque... the Renewal, Restoration and Restoration Projects were drafted by our administration and approved on September 14, 2020. The work that was ready for discovery was taken into the Investment Programme in 2021. So there are 20 restoration jobs under Edirne Regional Directorate under the General Directorate of the Foundations, five of which are completed in 2020, and 15 others will be completed in 2021. So we're very focused on Edirne. As to the fact that the AST Ankara Scene was having a hard time -- for the theatre -- I actually gave information about AST. Look, we've formed a study group about private theaters, and we've included representatives of the AST, and we've evaluated all their demands. This year's charity programme included AST as well as theatres that received help, and he was paid for it. And we don't want any more, of course, about this kind of theater that's become a historical monument, and I even told my friends about it when it came out in the press about AST, to contact the owner of the theater, to investigate. He's probably got another target now, the owner didn't get back to us, but we're persistently following him. The AST theatre has now taken part in the Bilkent Theatre, and our support programmes will continue from now on, so we didn't break up with AST, we reversed it, we give them all kinds of support, just like all the other private theaters. Also, look, private theaters are often spoken for. Please talk to the special theater rep friends, and I'm asking them, and they'll tell you, they're in more contact with the Ministry of Culture and Tourism than ever before, and they're getting more support and help than ever before. All meetings are being held especially by my presidency; I listen to all their problems, force them into the framework of the legislation -- look, I'm forcing them -- I'm giving them all kinds of support. Yes, Mr. Mehmet Celal, Malatya Arslantepe needs a modern museum... you're right... the Arslantepe Höyük will be one of our new faces in the future. So we're not just concentrating on Malatya, we're concentrating with both of them, his environmental arrangement and related tourism areas, and I'm going to evaluate this new modern museum demand, but I'm going to see what we can do, but I'm going to put it on the agenda today or this year, but the next year, I'm going to make sure that you get that museum. Mersin Anamur's dig and Silifke's sorority restoration... look, Silifke's sorely one of our most important values. We are launching a study to retake UNESCO World Heritage List. Plus, his restoration...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0365par0297	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0364par0298	There's plenty, Mr. President. If you want, I'll give you a written answer, it won't hurt to read it, it won't make it.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0365par0299	Well... Mr. Secretary will answer the rest of the questions in writing.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0366par0301	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0365par0302	Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0366par0305	Mr. Secretary, we heard what you said on the stand. You spoke of many achievements in your ministry. A big part of our friends said that some of this stuff isn't real, but I want to parentheses on something in particular. Ankara had a Charatören subway, they remember, it was an endless subway. Young lovers used to say to each other, "I will wait for you until the carabinieri train is finished." Ankara's other unfinished symphony was the Presidential Symphony Orchestra Concert Hall. The foundation was laid in 1997 by the late Solomon Demirel.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0367par0307	In '92, the project began, and in '95...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0366par0308	In 1997, the foundation was laid by Mr. Süleyman Demirel. You've been in power for 18 years, and 18 years later, it's a success to tell that concert hall of yours to be finished; rather, it's the power of... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...shows how far away he is from the services of culture and art. That's what I wanted to say. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0368par0312	Congressmans, I, in particular, am the pandemic of the Presidential Symphony Orchestra...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0369par0313	Mr. Secretary, I haven't given you my word yet.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0368par0314	I'm sorry, Mr. President, I have a statement to make.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0369par0315	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0368par0317	I'd like to invite all of you. I'll make you a special program. There's a really good job going on there, and I want you to enjoy it in a less stressful environment after you get through the budget marathon, and I want you to see for yourself what's going on there. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Take a look at the results. Look, in a period of 21 months, we completed 40 per cent of the construction very quickly by order of our President. Let's look at the positive side of things.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0370par0321	I see 18.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0371par0322	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0372par0324	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Speaker, I've heard our deputy's speech on the stand, and first of all, I'd like to thank you. I've been promised to confirm that I understand correctly. In particular, there's a very serious difference between council personnel, unfortunately, from different institutions, there's $2,600, there's 8,000 spaces, there's 5,000 spaces. I think I understood correctly that this conflict between them will be dealt with by collective contract of employment as soon as possible.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0373par0327	For the people of 4/B.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0372par0328	For the people of 4/B. Thank you for that. So hopefully, it'll be resolved as soon as possible. There was another matter. In particular, there's also a serious problem with acting advisors, equity rights, severance pay. And if I understand this correctly, I'm not going to be able to...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0374par0332	That's a legal arrangement.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0375par0333	Mr. Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0372par0334	There's also a real problem with counselors. Especially with severance, equity rights, the fact that you come and go with the deputy, it leaves them completely unsecured. We need to find a solution to this insecurity. So that's what our friends said in the talks. After all, we all have advisors, and we work together in whatever age of law, and as representative of a party that advocates such rights, freedoms, security, I would like to say that we don't approve of our advisors being in this insecurity, and I've reiterated this request for all consultants. Thank you. 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The Central Management Final Account for Public Control Agency 2019 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2019 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2019 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2021 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Radio and Television Oversight 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2021 2) General Directorate of State Theatres 2019 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY WRITTEN PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Agency 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2021 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account YURTISHI ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, 2021 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Research Center 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2021 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Language Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Historical Institution Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Turkish Historical Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account 1) Cappadocia Field President's Central Management Budget for 2021 2) Cappadocia Field President 2019 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0376par0397	Now, I'm going to have the budgets of public administrations in the first round, respectively, and I'm going to read their budgets and final accounts separately, and I'm going to submit them to your votes. I submit to your votes that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2021 GENEL TOPLAM 1,894.056,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Turkey's Grand National Assembly's central management budget of 2021 has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's central management account of 2019 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance is 1,816,358,362.00 Budget Expenses 1,319,659.892.47 Cancelled Fund 496,698,469,53 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the Turkish Grand National Assembly were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Government budget for 2021 of the Public Control Agency, those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 39,759,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 39,759,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2021 of the Public Control Agency has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of the Public Control Agency in 2019 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Central Management Final Account for Public Control Agency 2019 Total allowance 30.991.150.00 Budget Expenses 28.678.319.66 Canceled Fund 2,312,830,34 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 27.615,000.00 Collection 28.815.935,31 Ret and Returns 1.493.80 Net Collection 28.814.441.51 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Central Government's final account of 2019 were adopted by the Public Control Agency.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0377par0443	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0376par0444	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0377par0445	Sir, there's an apparent majority of the AK PARTY and the MHP Group in the General Assembly lounge, but at the finger lift, fingers are higher in the vote of rejection. Let them take care of their budget and raise their arms.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0378par0447	Count your fingers if you have to.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0379par0448	Members of lawmakers, please vote the Isari who have agreed to it, and those who haven't, will vote the business, so that we've seen it clearly. I submit to your votes that the Constitutional Court be transferred to the central management budget of 2021, those who don't accept... those who don't. 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 86.522,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Constitutional Court's central management budget of 2021 has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Constitutional Court's final account of central administration in 2019 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2019 Total allowance 69,813,705,50 Budget Expenses 60.637.231.79 Canceled Fund 9.176.473.71 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Constitutional Court's central management account of 2019 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Court's presidency be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: those who do not accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 1) Chairman of the Court 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 441,550,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of 2021 of the Court's presidency has been adopted. In 2019, I submit to your votes that the central administrative account of the Court's presidency be transferred into the chapters of its final account: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Central Management Final Account for the Chief Justice of the Court 2019 Total allowance 372.077.829.29 Budget Expenses 310,516,026,43 Canceled Fund 61.561.802.86 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the Court's presidency were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Culture and Tourism will be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2021 Central Management Budget GENEL TOPLAM 6,016,496,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism in 2019 will be transferred to its final accounts: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 6.966.709.886.38 Budget Expenses 6,412,267,771,19 Cancelled Fund 554.262.567.15 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 510,329,791,45 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Radio and Television Oversight will be transferred to the budget of 2021... (The CHP Group turns its back during the election of the Radio and Television Oversight's budget) [Applause from AK PARTY ranks (!] Those who don't... those who don't...
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0380par0504	Mr. President, there's a move against you, a move against the Presidential Court!
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0379par0505	Friends, I repeat, all those in favor... those who do not... are accepted. RADYO AND TELEVIZION BUILDING 1) Radio and Television Oversight 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 224,213.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm reading the sum of the income ruler... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Guys, if there's no peace, believe me, we'll wait here a little longer because we're talking numbers.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0381par0515	Take a break, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0382par0516	Take a half an hour off.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0381par0517	We can't hear.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit05spe0383par0518	I'm reading the sum of the income ruler: TOPLAM 224,213.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE, Applause!] I'm going to repeat the Radio and Television Oversight's 2021 budget vote, but I'm taking a ten-minute recess before I do it again.
tbmm-2020-12-08sit06spe0383par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2021 and the Central Management Law of 2019, where we left off. The commission is in place. I submit to your votes that the Radio and Television Supreme Board's final account of central management in 2019... [[CHP Group turns its back on voting the budget of Radio and Television Supreme Council]] All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Radio and Television Oversight 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 160,769.000.00 Budget Expenses 139.194.772.17 Canceled Fund 21,574,227,83 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimate 160,769000.00 Collection 155,138,807,45 Ret and Returns 833.171.44 Net Collection 154.305.636.01 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Radio and Television Supreme Board were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the State Opera and Ballet General Directorate be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. DELIVER OPERA AND BALL OF GENIARITY 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 442.731.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 441.231,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the State Opera and Ballet General Directorate was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of the State Opera and Ballet General Office of 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 384,403,700,00 Budget Expenses 374.982.410.61 Canceled Fund 9.421.289.39 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 371,007,000.00 Collection 394,411,553,37 Ret and Returns 3.903,59 Net Collection 394,407,649,78 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the State Opera and Ballet General Directorate were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the General Directorate of State Theatres will be transferred to the budget of 2021: those who do not accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 1) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 391.106,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 390.106,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2021 of the General Directorate of State Theatres has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the General Directorate of State Theatres of 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 2) General Directorate of State Theatres 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 327,703,640.00 Budget Expenses 317.423.534.09 Canceled Fund 10.280.105.91 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 301,240,000.00 Collection 330.925.656.94 Ret and Returns 2,716,79 Net Collection 330.922.940,15 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the General Directorate of State Theatres were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the President of Turkey's Writers' Association will be transferred to the budget of 2021: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. THE PRESIDENT OF THE ENGLISH WRITTENS 1) President of Turkey's Writing Arts Agency 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 55,139,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 54,889,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Turkish Writers' Association was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the President of Turkey's Writers' Association shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 46,448,550.00 Budget Expenses 42,425,485,46 Canceled Fund 4.023.064.54 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 45,277,000.00 Collection 50,527,289,48 Refuge and Returns 3.037.00 Net Collection 50,524,252,48 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Turkish Writers' Association's Office were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the General Directorate of Foundations will be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 585.809,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 1,080,339.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2021 of the General Directorate of Foundations has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the General Directorate of Foundations in 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) General Directorate of Foundations 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 937,876,598,22 Budget Expenses 912,963,620,24 Canceled Fund 23.799.185.07 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 1,113,792,91 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 866.817,000.00 Collection 1,005,650,848,81 Rets and returns 47,633,350,43 Net Collection 958.017.498.38 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Central Government's final account of 2019 were adopted by the General Directorate of Foundations. I submit to your votes that the chairman of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency shall be transferred to the central management budget for 2021: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. ENGLISH BUILDING AND COORDINASYON AJANSI PRESIDENT 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 564,661.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 563.661,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency was adopted for 2021. I submit to your votes that the head of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2019: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2019 Central Management Final Account Total grant 515,988,990,94 Budget Expenses 430.506.632.16 Canceled allowance 79,287,762,12 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 6,1974,596,66 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 464,450,000.00 Collection 473,575,460,98 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. THE PRESIDENT OF DIVORCE ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTIONS 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, 2021 General TOPLAM 393,867,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 392.667,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of 2021 of the presidency of Turkish and Relative Community abroad has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the President of the Foreign Turkic and Relative Communitys, in 2019, the final account of the central administration, shall be transferred to the chapters of your final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 354,828,961,43 Budget Expenses 353.148.417.64 Cancelled Fund 1.680.543.79 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 321,046,000.00 Collection 355.195.263.48 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted... Parts of the central management account of the presidency of Turkish and Relative Community abroad were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2021, those who have not accepted... those who have not. ATTACK CLUB, LANGUAGE AND ARTIAL PRODUCTION 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2021 Central Management Budget GENEL TOPLAM 18.920.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 18.920.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Ataturk Institute for Culture, Language and History was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Ataturk Institute for Culture, Language and History, in 2019, will be transferred to its final accounts: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 14.867.889.00 Budget Expenses 14.744.942.54 Canceled Fund 122.946,46 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 13.914,000.00 Collection 13.912.367.39 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Ataturk Institute for Culture, Language and History were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Ataturk Research Center will be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 1) Ataturk Research Center 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 7.870.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 7,870.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Ataturk Research Centre was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the Ataturk Research Center's central management account of 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Ataturk Research Center 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 6.638,000.00 Budget Expenses 6,177,717,53 Canceled Payment 460.282.47 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimate 6,063,000.00 Collection 6.151.489,38 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Ataturk Research Centre were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Ataturk Cultural Center will be transferred to the central management budget for 2021: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2021 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 9.752,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 9.752,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Ataturk Cultural Centre was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Ataturk Cultural Center in 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 7.440.101.20 Budget Expenses 6,625,505,81 Canceled Fund 814,595,39 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 6,604,000.00 Collection 6,013,223,31 Ret and Returns 132.216.00 Net Collection 5.881.007,31 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Ataturk Cultural Centre were adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Language Foundation be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 23.600,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 225.175,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Turkish Language Association's central management budget of 2021 has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Turkish Language Foundation in 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkish Language Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 28.473.300.00 Budget Expenses 23.370.905.23 Canceled Fund 5.102.394,77 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 206,632,000,00 Collection 239,355,458,58 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Turkish Language Foundation's central management account in 2019 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Historical Foundation be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) Turkish Historical Institution Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 40.575,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 242.057,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Turkish Historical Association's central management budget of 2021 has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Turkish Historical Society in 2019 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkish Historical Institution 2019 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 51,042,91,58 Budget Expenses 48,654.222,14 Canceled Fund 2.388.689.44 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 201,443,000,00 Collection 289,250,976,29 Refuge and Retribution 413.30 Net Collection 289,250,562.99 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Turkish Historical Association's central management account in 2019 were adopted. I submit to your votes that the President of Cappadocian Field shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2021: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 1) Cappadocia Field President's Central Management Budget for 2021 General TOPLAM 15.427,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 12.427,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the capadocia field presidency was adopted in 2021. I submit to your votes that the President of Cappadocia Field shall take part in the final account of central management in 2019: those who do not accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 2) Cappadocia Field President 2019 Central Management Final Account Total Payment $600,000.00 Budget Expenses 67,335,21 Canceled Fund 532,664,79 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Collection 600.194,23 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the capadocia field presidency were adopted in 2019. The budgets and precise accounts of public administrations in the first round were thus accepted. I wish them well. Congressmans, the first round of talks is complete. According to the programme, 11 p.m. on Wednesday (December 9th) to discuss budgets and precise accounts of public administrations, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
