tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0001par0001	Under the 7th Articles of the 93rd and Grand National Assembly of Turkey (3/1044) of the Constitution, I am opening the 41st Union of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which has been held at the direct call of the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Dear friends, we have enough meetings, we begin negotiations. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. I'll have the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's call read and present to your knowledge. Turkey Reported to Grand National Assembly Chairman On December 30, 2019, it was necessary for the General Assembly to be called to the meeting, according to Article 7 of the Constitution's 93rd and Turkey's Grand National Assembly Council, which ensured that the 3/1044 main presidential proposal be discussed. Therefore, on Thursday, January 2, 2020, it's 2:00 p.m. I'm calling a meeting of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey at 00 p.m. I'd like to ask the MPs to attend the General Assembly meeting at the appointed time and day. It has been presented to your knowledge. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0002par0023	Mr. President, you've just taken a right from the Constitutional Court to call the House to a meeting during the holidays and recess period, when an extraordinary need arises -- about whether you can use this right to the president or 120 MPs or you -- to use this right. But at this point, there's something we'd like to draw attention to. This arrangement applies to our Constitution for recesses and holidays, whereas Parliament has decided the day we are now in is not a holiday or a recess, but a decision not to work in the last few days of the past year.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0001par0025	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0002par0026	So, in a time when the House decided not to work, it is against the Constitution and the Civil Code to call a meeting directly, as if we were on vacation and recess. This may be considered primarily by the 63rd article of our Civil Law by a procedure debate. However, in the past week, 72 hours after the press release of a draft draft for Libyan troops, then the statements that you will call to the Assembly at this very hour, and this is the day, date and time, when it is announced by members of the press that you will call a meeting...
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0001par0028	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0002par0029	...when evaluated here, we would rather consider the concern that an action dispute could turn into an actual violation of the Civil Code with the Parliament General Assembly, rather than consider the issue as a legal debate on the issue because we have the right concern, that you have taken a decision on the Constitutional Court and on a matter which is clearly contrary to the Constitutional Constitution and the Civil Charter.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0001par0031	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0002par0032	Of course, instead of a decision made by the House with very different needs, it can be considered to be called to a meeting. In this case, if this is a parliamentary decision and it has been confirmed by the proposal of five political parties and by the approval of lawmakers from all political parties, you can't break it by using a recognized authority to take a break. The work needed to be done here: meeting with political parties with their group in parliament and even political parties represented in parliament without a group -- much as applied -- would have to be applied for a joint Council decision.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0001par0034	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0002par0035	It's also an agenda for the House. So if you've agreed with other political parties on one agenda or off the agenda, and you've signed it with everyone, and you've got it from everyone, and you've gotten support from everyone, and you've given it to the reporters of the Justice and Development Party when you announce it, and you've called this Assembly at exactly the same time and the same time that they said yesterday, you've got a separation of forces in the new system, and they've all got a president on top of it. We're here, all our deputies are here. People have a lot of problems that need to be solved, and we've seen the summer's long vacation as well. We meet on an important agenda all the time, but you have to do so by overstepping your authority, violating the Constitution, violating the Civil Code, and by following a person's decision, not by confirming the date and time you've been told, but by negotiating with groups represented in Parliament, seeking reconciliation, and looking for agreement, and whatever party you're chosen from, you'll have to negotiate with the groups with kindness and equality principle. In a procedure debate to open, it does not open a procedure debate against the neutrality of the office of hypocrisy and then a majority-powered constitutional violation in order to prevent you from implementing a Parliamentary decision, but we are recording this tragic situation in front of history. On such an important agenda, of course, the House will meet -- here we are -- opposition parties are here, but this does not happen in a way that you can confirm with the signature of one person that you have appointed, which you have signed 72 hours later. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0003par0039	Thank you. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0004par0041	Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bey will make a statement on behalf of our group.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0003par0042	Mr. Kubat, come in.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0005par0044	Mr. President, thank you very much, sir. On the evaluation of the Republican People's Party Group, we, the AK PARTY Group, felt the need to share our beliefs with the Supreme Assembly. Thank you for your promise. Dear President, as it is known, on December 21, 2019, we made a proposal by the EC PARTY Group that the Assembly should not meet on December 24, 25, 26, December 31st and Thursday (January 2nd), and the Grand General Assembly accepted our proposal as a result of the vote. So by January 7, right now, legally, Congress has postponed its work. The procedure and the basis of the common and extraordinary meetings of parliament were laid out in detail in the 93rd, 5th, 6, 7 and 54th Articles of the Civil Charter of the Constitution, and again, in the first joke of Article 95 of the Constitution, the Turkish Parliament shall carry out its work according to its internal ordinances. In Article 5 of the Interior Charter, it has been defined as "a postponement" of the work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for a period of time -- in a line. Again, Turkey has been defined as a postponement of its work -- not to cross the fifteen days of the Grand National Assembly -- again, in quote, quote, quote. So basically, the decisions that the House has made regarding a recession or the meeting of the General Assembly on certain days are a Parliamentary decision, and they are the same kind of legislation as its legal outcome, even though it is expressed in different words. In both ways, it is agreed that the General Assembly should postpone its work or not meet. In Article 93 of the Constitution, which regulates the conditions and forms of the extraordinary meeting, and in Article 7 of the Civil Charter of the Constitution, the General Assembly's Holiday, Break, or Regular Meeting... Article 54 has also stated in Article 54 that the regular meeting can be changed by a decision of the day and time of the week, day and hour of the Parliament. For example, on July 16, 2016, after that traitorous coup attempt, when the House was not working or meeting, our Parliament Speaker was on Saturday (July 16th) at 15 p.m. He invited the Assembly to a meeting in order to make an extraordinary call. So what we're trying to say here is that with these kind of decisions, the House is essentially postponing its work on days when it's not at the meeting, it's a postponement. However, according to the situation and requirements of which it was not working, at the Constitutional Court, at the request of our President, Parliament Speaker, and 120 members of Parliament -- in order to discuss a matter that the Assembly considered important at the time of its absence -- in order to specify the time and the day and the time of its visit -- in such an extraordinary situation, the Supreme General Assembly has been able to ensure that such a state of affairs will be established by the Constitution and the Civil Charter. Therefore, by your side, this call by our Parliamentary President, under the power vested in by the Constitution and the Interior Charter, is a call to be fully appreciated by those who are calling, and it was made in accordance with the rules and procedures and shapes of the Constitution and the Interior Charter. The only job that needed to be done right now was whether or not enough of the merger was to be opened, which was the result of the roll call that was just done. Therefore, there is no legal obstacle to this call for an extraordinary meeting being discussed and decided by the Grand General Assembly. With all due respect.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0006par0050	Thank you. Dear friends, here, of course, as the caller, I'd like to say a few words. There are two issues: First, it concerns the Constitution and its situation according to the Civil Code. The 7th Articles of the Constitution, the 93rd Amendment, are on holiday and organises the call for a meeting of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the recession. He's authorising the President and the Speaker of Parliament. After the change of the new government system, the President calls for resen. He had a second option before, at the request of the government. The Speaker can call in two ways: either at least one fifth of the MPs' request or he can call for a resen. It's about the meeting and the break. The decision made on December 21st was not a holiday decision, nor was it a decision to take a break. Basically, the Turkish Grand National Assembly was not on vacation or on break, but the General Assembly had decided not to meet. Therefore, I did not call a meeting of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I called a meeting of the General Assembly. You may have noticed this finesse in the text. I called a meeting of the General Assembly, not the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0007par0054	Same thing... same thing...
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0006par0055	It's not the same because...
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0007par0056	It's the same thing, sir, word tag...
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0006par0057	Mr. Tanal, wait a minute, I'll explain, and then you'll decide whether it's the same or not. Following this decision on December 21st, there was no obstacle to the work of commissions in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Research commissions could work, and other commissions could work -- economic commissions -- because the Grand National Assembly of Turkey did not take a vacation or a break, only the General Assembly decided not to meet on the day of the meeting. Therefore, I used the phrase that the General Assembly was only called to the meeting. Dear friends, is this against the Constitution, the Civil Code? It's not. Because the Constitution and the Civil Code grant this authority to the Speaker on vacation and recess. The decision of the General Assembly not to meet is a decision that is simpler and a part of it than vacation and recess.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0008par0060	The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is referred to in the Constitution. Why don't you call the coven?
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0006par0061	Dear friends, what we call the law is not the normu of law, but the meaning of the written text itself; this is the meaning of the text; the meaning is revealed by interpretation and the principles of interpretation in law -- and as a lesson, interpretation principles -- one of them is the principle of marriage, which is fundamentally the principle of logic. There are few in many, and there are parts in all. The principle that we can express. We can determine that the Constitutional provisions of the 93rd and Interior Charter, which authorized calling the Grand National Assembly for a meeting during the holidays or recess, have given its authority to the Speaker of Parliament -- as long as we interpret these rules -- under the rule of marriage -- only after the General Assembly has decided not to convene -- to call him to the meeting at the point of the decision of the General Assembly. I have no qualms about it. This is the part about the law, the Constitution and its compliance with the Civil Code. The point of the meeting is this: Dear friends, of course, we're going through a very dynamic process. In the process, there has been a dissertation. The issues related to this were sometimes discussed by our Foreign Minister, the National Minister of Defence, sometimes by telephone, sometimes by Vicahen. The assembly was being called to a meeting last Monday or Tuesday, but I also explained to them that Tuesday and Wednesday would not be appropriate for Christmas. I said that the best date would be again after January 1st. So the journalists wrote it, yes, there are those who have it. I don't think we can expect them to make a mistake with the watch, Council 14. They're already gathering at 00, so they can't say another hour. But there was either two of them, or three of them, or there was one on Friday, or there were six on the next Monday. There were those who said Tuesday, there were those who said Monday, but those who said Thursday made it. I think it's just a coincidence. As I said about this, Thursday wasn't the first choice; there were thoughts about Monday, Tuesday, but I expressed my opinion that the day after Wednesday would be a good day after January 1st. That's the kind of history that's been agreed upon, that's all. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0009par0067	Mr. President, without further ado, what we're trying to tell you is that Congress has made a decision. Who chooses you, Mr. President, where do you get the authority to sit there? People have given us the authority to elect the President of Parliament, and first we look for a qualified majority, turn around, and finally the General Assembly elects you. The General Assembly is not a place where the decision can be suspended by someone who has been chosen by him. You're doing something else when you're taking a constitutional right to vacation and recess. The text of social reconciliation says: "Don't take a break and on vacation I give you special authority. You use it, it's a constitutional power. Since the Constitution has not given you any power here, you have decided not to work for the Parliament, but I think you have no right to reassess it... you have no right to say the word. What can you do? Look, from time to time, it's said. Sir, there are special powers for the President, even if it's a war -- it's a private arrangement -- even if the council is not called to a meeting, if we're on break and on vacation. The state of emergency has been arranged separately. The state of martial law was divided in the former laws, in the Constitution, but what is done here is to exceed your limits of authority. Can the President call himself? He could do it with your comment, but he didn't. Can you get 120 MPs called in? He could do it with your comment, but he didn't. A will has made you an officer, and you have taken a step against the Parliament's decision. Agenda security is important to Parliament. Or what will happen is that one party will hold the majority -- that will be you today, that will be someone else tomorrow -- we will not work until then. The groups will plan according to it. One will know when to call, and the security of the agenda will be lifted. You will sit down and you will sit down and you will make many decisions against the party. All of them are possible. The security of the agenda, like all constitutional guarantees, is a recognised guarantee for parliament, political parties, for the nation. We can't allow you to normalize a situation where the security of the agenda has been eliminated. In such a case, you would have to consult with the political party groups one by one, invite the Deputy Directors of the Group to an advisory council. If you legitimize the practice of a situation today that eliminates the security of a military deployment through an international thesis, maybe you won't know what to do tomorrow when someone else's security against you is eliminated. That's why we're filing this wrong. The work is against the Constitution, the Civil Code, political courtesy. A Parliament where the security of the agenda has been eliminated is not the Parliament of democracy. A parliament, where the security of the agenda has been eliminated, is the dream of building a parliament that, when he said it, is in the possession of one person, will one day be brought together and, I'm afraid, will open its garden inside that palace. We won't let that happen, we'll fight it to the end. We're filing this initiative in front of history, and we're getting the benefit of the Republican People's Party to move on to the agenda, which we consider to be important and benefiting from their talks. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0010par0073	Thank you. Friends, I would like to say once again that there is no Civil Code decree for the Council to convene for a meeting of the Assembly on holiday and recess, and for the evaluation of the parties' views. I'm talking about the council meeting, that's what I'm talking about. I've just expressed it, and it's on my call, we're based on the 7th Amendment of the Constitution and the 7th Amendment. Here, it's clear how the Speaker will call the meeting. There's no argument here about how to do that when the Speaker calls the meeting, because he clearly calls the president of the Parliament. The National Assembly of Turkey can call a residence during vacation and recess. When it says that it does not have to refer to any advisory council. And I'm already stating that I made this call according to the Constitution 93 and the Civil Code 7. I'm not based on any other arrangement. I wonder if there's any such authority in the matter of the General Assembly's decision not to hold a meeting outside of holidays and recess. I've expressed that in interpretation and in the norm of the law, and the lawyers know that the rules of law are not written text, but it's its meaning, and that meaning can be revealed by interpretation. What we call "Norm" is essentially in law, and the principle we call "wedding" is one of the most commonly used interpretation norms and principles in law. Therefore, I say that the decision authorizing the Turkish Grand National Assembly to call him on holiday and recess while the Turkish Grand National Assembly is on vacation and on recess has authorized the Speaker to call a meeting only when the General Assembly has decided not to meet. I don't...
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0011par0077	Mr. President, does this mean you can call the House at any time?
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0010par0078	How, sir?
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0011par0079	I'm just saying, does it mean you can always call this coven? Then he can call the Speaker on vacation, on break, and otherwise at any time.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0010par0080	As far as I know, you're a lawyer.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0011par0081	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0010par0082	Yes, what does the Constitution 93 say, he can call you anytime. Does it say?
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0011par0083	No, sir.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0010par0084	Isn't he? Look, I know. Thank you, guys.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0012par0086	Mr. President, we're listening, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0010par0087	Guys, let me decide. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0013par0091	Mr. President, thank you very much. Well, first of all, your selection has come up as a result of a vote we all attended and witnessed in the General Assembly. You were chosen by the will of the General Assembly, not by any other means. It's a majority of the selection procedures, or otherwise, that's probably in the Civil Charter, but in the end, the ones who give yes and no are the ones who contribute to the will of the General Assembly, and the decision came out in that frame, and you probably didn't just sit there waving your hands, and if it were, people would probably object. The General Assembly has a will here. Second, I believe you held the meeting in accordance with the Constitution and the Civil Code, and there have already been references. In fact, as you can see, today's meeting is also being held at Parliament, and it has been recorded once again that the decision of the General Assembly is in the direction of the meeting. When we discuss the thesis, the General Assembly's will will will be restored. I think we need a meeting, you get the credit. I'm supplying, thank you.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0014par0095	Thank you. And thank you, dear friends, for this precious discussion. Members of parliament, we will begin talks on the Constitutional Court of Presidentship, issued under Article 92 of the Constitution. (3/1044) I'm reading the main presidential counter: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The effort to build democratic institutions in the process following events in Libya in February 2011 has resulted in increased gunfights, resulting in a fragmented structure in the country. The Libyan Political Agreement was signed in Suheyrat, Morocco on 17 December 2015, as a result of the Libyan Political Dialogue, which led to the participation of all parties in Libya in the United Nations, which provided the establishment of peace and stability in Libya, as well as the establishment of a ceasefire in Libya, and the establishment of a functioning state mechanism. Under the Libyan Political Agreement, the National Covenant Government is recognised by the international community as the only and only legitimate government representing Libya under UN Security Council Resolution 2259 (2015). The United Nations Security Council Resolution 2259 (2015) calls for implementation of the Libyan Political Agreement and support of Libyan organisations referred to in the Treaty, including the National Covenant Government, as well as support of parallel institutions that are not in the agreement with member states and claim legitimacy to cease contact with them. The Libyan Political Agreement continues in this framework, condensing and expanding the attacks launched by the so-called Libyan National Army, which has no place in the Libyan Political Agreement, which is both national and internationally illegitimate, on April 4, 2019, was aimed at taking over the capital, Tripoli, and overthrowing the National Covenant Government. Despite diplomatic efforts to end conflict in Libya, ceasefire and return to the political process, the so-called Libyan National Army continues its attacks with support from foreign forces. Because of these attacks targeting civilians and civilian infrastructure, the human situation in Libya is worsening. Conflicts, such as DEAŞ and Al Qaeda, also create a suitable environment for the actions of terrorist organisations. On the other hand, Libyan territory and landwaters are also used in international trafficking of people and immigrants across the Mediterranean. These developments pose a threat to the entire region, including Turkey, in addition to Libya. Turkish companies operating in Libya and Turkish interests, such as Turkish citizens living in Libya, and Turkish Band-Aid ships in the Mediterranean, will be targeted, so-called Libyan National Army elements say. Turkey's interests in both the Mediterranean basin and North Africa will also be negatively affected if the alleged attacks of the Libyan National Army remain unstoppable and the conflicts turn into an intense civil war. Given the historical, social, political and economic radical relations between the two countries that are developing with the Memorandum of Covenant on the Limitation of Sea Authority Areas between Turkey and Libya and Libya, it is important for Turkey to ensure stability with the facility for truce and peace in Libya. The Memorandum of Security and Military Trade Union, signed by the National Covenant Government, includes the training and consulting services needed for the formation of a highly trained, disciplined and institutionalised army in the fight against the threats Libya faces. The Libyan National Covenant government has requested military support from Turkey in the fight against illegal arms groups and human trafficking, as well as threats to Libya's integrity and stability, DEAS, Al Qaeda and other terrorist organizations. In light of these favours, to ensure that the safety of other possible risks such as mass migration, to deliver humanitarian aid needed to Libyan people, to ensure the support demanded by the international law against any threat and security risks, to protect Turkey's high interests and to protect Turkey's high interests by non-profit groups and terrorist organisations in Libya, and to ensure that Turkey's efforts towards the interests of Libyan Libyan Libyan, will be met in the future, and to ensure that the President of the Libyan people will be granted the necessary measures, and to ensure that its access to the state of Turkey's foreign authorities, if it is necessary to ensured by the President's powers and to ensure that its access to the state of Turkey's security. Thank you. I will now open a meeting on the Presidential Charter under Article 72 of the Civil Code. I'm going to promise the groups and two members on behalf of themselves. I will also give five-minute talks to representatives of the ungrouped political party. Their talking time is 20 minutes each for the groups, ten minutes for the individuals. I'm reading the names of the members of lawmakers who took the stand on the counter: 1) Aytun Çıray, İzmir MP on behalf of the group. 2) Erkan Akçay, Manisa MP for the National Movement Party Group. 3) On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Tulay Hatimoğlu Oruç is a member of Adana MP. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group Ahmet Ünal Çviköz, İstanbul MP. 5) On behalf of the Justice and Development Party, Ismet Yilmaz, Sivas MP. Non-group political party representatives: 1) Erkan Baş, İstanbul MP, Turkey's Labour Party Chairman. 2) Abdulkadir Karaduman, Konya MP, Saadet Party. 3) Gültekin Uysal, Afyonkarahisar MP, Democratic Party President. 4) Mustafa Destici, Ankara MP, Chairman of the Grand Union Party. 1) Engin Özkoç, Cakaryan MP. 2) Emrullah Business, Ankara MP. Now, dear friends, the first word belongs to Izmir MP Aytun Çiray. Here you go, Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0015par0135	Mr. President, members of the High Council... [[Whistling]] Mr. President, let's do something about this hum first.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0014par0138	Dear friends, we're having an important conversation, please let's keep the peace. I invite our MPs to take their seats, to be quiet. Let's hear the speaker on the stand, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0015par0140	Mr. President, the esteemed members of the High Assembly have seen a great deal of peace on this New Year's occasion to the Turkish nation struggling to survive the economic crisis, calling for an extraordinary meeting of the House to send their sons to Libya's deserts on the very day of Christmas. Now we ask: what's the rush? Because as everyone knows, once this permit is approved, Turkey will be able to face the kind of hostility we've never been exposed to. We're not making the slightest fuss. No permit in front of the Grand Assembly poses such a great risk to the high general interests and national security of the Turkish nation. We can only compare the size and Vahama of the risk that has arisen to what happened after the Ottoman flag was raised on Goeben and Breslau cruisers, which resulted in the destruction of the state. Now, a hundred and two years later, we're dealing with another one that can make the Turkish nation pay a very heavy price. This is one of the inevitable consequences of the mindset of the regime of authoritarian forces. Dear friends, the AKP mentality once went to power with the antipathy of our founding values, as it was called at the time. Turkey thus experienced a very radical scissor replacement operation in foreign policy starting in 2010. This was a rematching operation that left Turkey facing a deep isolation in the world, loading 5 million Syrians on the Turkish nation's back, costing more than $50 billion. This is the framework for which we must consider the December 30, 2019 Presidential Proposal, which is brought before our great Parliament today. In my earlier speech, I reminded you that the drama of the Libyan people began with the process of the overthrow of Gaddafi, supposedly a reflection of the Arab Spring. Gaddafi, of course, was an egocentric dictator, and, like all dictators, he also used the Libyan state to enrich himself and his family without limit. However, what happened after Gaddafi was lynched was much more tragic. In those days, on February 21, 2011, Mr. President said, "What is NATO doing in Libya?" The next day, he allowed İzmir to become the centre of the NATO operation, but at that time in Syria, he pushed the radical dream of Friday prayer in Emevi Mosque into the background of Libya, Syria. Now, in order to bring legitimacy to the argument that you have brought today, we support this thesis because the United Nations recognizes the forces in Tripoli as legitimate. But you are not believable and primitive about the legitimacy given by the United Nations. Why? Because when the civil war broke out, according to the United Nations, Syria's legitimate government was Assad's government, and you supported the SOO. Dear friends, we also have to clarify the subject of the blue homeland, which you have cited as evidence of your thesis's right. Turkey signed two agreements with the National Covenant Government in Libya on 27 November 2019. The first agreement was on naval jurisdiction between Turkey and Libya; its goal was to protect our rights in the Eastern Mediterranean, and to register them in the eyes of international law. However, Turkey discovered the importance of the blue homeland when the continental shelf crisis broke out in 1973. But Admiral Cem Gürdeniz was the first to use the term "blue homeland" for our naval authorities in 2006. The reason why Mr. Gürdeniz and 400 marine officers were sent to prison by the Ergenekon conspiracy, with support of the prosecutors, was because they owned this blue sea, this blue country. You imprisoned those who took possession of that blue land from Ergenekon. So don't anyone try to teach us a blue homeland lesson. You failed that class, lost Turkey 13 years. But we, as the GOOD PARTY, supported the blue country with our votes in the name of the interests of the Turkish nation and its state, especially our Mr. President, Coral Akşener, and we will continue to defend it. In order to avoid abuse here, I must point out that if the Government of the National Covenant collapses, the blue country will be lost. His thesis is not true, because Libya has expanded sea jurisdictions by this understanding by 30,000 square miles. That's why no matter what government comes after this government, the blue country won't give back the sea fields. In response, we did not support the second agreement signed, and we were right. The second memorandum of understanding, not only was it related to our national security, but the Hafter has provoked its powers, as predicted by the PARTI spokesman, and the reason why today's thesis was accelerated is because of that previous thesis, which is why one of you is triggering another. In addition, two weeks ago, you granted 90 days of residence for Libyan citizens under the age of 16 and older than 55 under the decision issued in the Official Gazette of December 15, 2019. What should we know from here? Isn't this going to be another disaster for the corrupt social integrity and harmony? Turkey is encouraging a legal-looking, enormous-cost, short-sighted migration that will seriously disrupt domestic peace again. Mr. President, with this decision, has made his alleged national reasons for the warrants questionable. Members of parliament, there are other strong reasons for our conscience to oppose the thesis on allowing power to be sent to Libya. Turkey will be an active part of the civil war in the eyes of all Libyans when the Turkish Armed Forces are sent to the region at the invitation of the National Covenant Government. This will also make our country and our nation an object of hatred in Arab geography. Dear lawmakers, our High Assembly must not allow another pass to the permit thesis, which is that Syrian regime forces are about to take control of Idlib, with the support of the Russians. One of the worst consequences of this... [[Whistling]] Well, friends, we'll send soldiers to the war to be martyrs, and the noise won't stop. Is it that serious? You called, you rushed me, and you're not listening to this? I mean, if you're serious, why don't you listen? Sir's on the phone, front row, for an hour. Yeah, we're sending soldiers to be martyrs, guys. Let's be serious.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0016par0150	What do you know about seriousness?
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0015par0151	What the hell do you know? My grandfather was a martyr in the Balkans, what do you know about martyrs?
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0016par0153	What if you're all serious?
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0015par0154	One of the worst consequences is that we face Russia. One of the supporters of General Hafter's forces, which dominates close to 70 per cent of the country, is Russia, which strengthens this very unpleasant prospect. Besides, the violent characters and ruthlessness of the mercenaries of the conflicting parties in Libya may leave our Mehmet-chik in vietnam-like conflict. On the other hand, the last remnant of Tripoli's government, the Arab Spring, will be the breadwink of those who offer as supporters of the selefi jihadist terrorist groups, even though we don't deserve Turkey, which has already been damaged by sectarian foreign policies. So we can't leave our Mehmet-chik in an uncertain line of fire in a civil war that has nothing to do with our national security. The rank of martyrship is undoubtedly a high rank. It's also the hope and comfort of those left behind. But this sacred hope and comfort is not allowed to be abused by the nation or by God. I repeat: Turkish nation did not kill their hero soldiers on the street. We have no doubt of their courage, Turkish soldier's courage, and their warriors. But the great courage and fighting of the Turkish soldier is only valid in our national cases. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, when the semi-dark movement called the Arab Spring began, we were still respected in Muslim-dominated geography. Our reputation wasn't due to baseless claims of success or building a palace. Our reputation was due to the sociocultural charm of the Republic of Turkey as a model of civilization. This reputation provided Turkey with a position of neutrality that would never be doubted as a mediator among the conflicting parties. They were squandered by the ideologically obsessed foreign policies of the Justice and Development Party. We need to get back to the position that we're losing right now, to completely regulate our foreign policy in that direction. As the wrong economic policies were not enough, our nation's bread began to be grinded between the wheels of the wrong foreign policy. More importantly, the people who founded the Republic of Turkey are called the Turkish nation. If you want the basic rights of the Turkish nation to be restored in its definition, you should say no. That's the point of nationalism and patriotism. Congressmans, there is an immoral civil war going on in Libya. This job supports different aspects of the war, and some even give weapons to both sides at the same time. An AKP spokesman has made a statement from Adana, that Turkey has a responsibility to history, that we should send troops there. Friends, at no time in history has the Republic of Turkey ever sided with the civil wars of the oppressed nations. That is what makes Turkey moral, virtuous, and honorable before history. We are a nation in no one's country, land, and internal affairs, but now we are driven to be the subcontractors of a side and forces supporting it in Libya. Turkish President Tunis is on his way to Tunis, where he is a warmonger, but Tunisia is not responding to expectations. Aren't Tunisia and Algeria the ones who should have national security problems because Libya is borderline? Have you ever wondered why Egypt, an American influence, doesn't send troops out in the open, providing tanks and aircraft support to the Hafter forces? On the other hand, fellow commentators and payroll commentators are making money on television. We need a cut. Dear friends, this is your best exporter of Soros. It's an immoral expression that will justify your promise. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Turkey has never sought spoils, plunder, and exploitation. The Turkish nation never had an eye on the land of the oppressed. Because our nation's history, conscience and morality are much higher than the AKP speakers think. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] I repeat, if the government still has a mind left to a staff and an outsider, let them tell Mr. President that after the journey of Goeben and Breslau, the greatest adventure and disaster will be the intervention of Libya. The legal basis for this thesis is not prepared. There is no legitimate intervention power established by the United Nations Security Council, and attention is not prepared for the worst possible scenario in Libya. Turkey has always decided such interventions by the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on the basis of the decisions of the United Nations Security Council and NATO Council, not on a two-sided and questionable basis. Mr. President said we go where we're invited. What's the point of an invitation with that logic? Twenty percent of Brother Azerbaijan's land is under an illegitimate occupation, so let's go and save it first. Why don't you do it? You're going to teach us nationalism.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0017par0166	There's East Turkistan, East Turkistan.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0015par0167	Crimea was attributed to a unilateral decision. Let's go save Crimea. I'll say, but you rejected our motion to investigate the Uygur Turks. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Now, we're going to tell you to bring an advance on our islands that have been invaded one by one. But you're more concerned with the internal affairs and national affairs of America and Russia than with Turkey. Let's be serious. Do you know that as soon as your friends turned around, they became friends with the leader of Syria's Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)? Because there are no friendships in international relations; there are facts and interests; there are long-term accounts. Look, what happened to our heartfelt support of your thesis on Operation Peace Fountain? Three days later, you stopped the Turkish army walking like lions with a tweet. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Members of parliament, Turkey did not take any job without political legitimacy and law until you came to rule. We know you don't have any government-minded plans against the scenarios that we've come up with after this thesis, because we know who's behind this. A person who is one step away from the schizophrenic find known in psychiatry as the alleged martyrdom, is today the presidential chief of staff. If the dark militias sent to battle alongside Mehmetçik are passing through this training tomorrow, what will be our security? Congressmans, because of our love for our country, because of our state humanity, there are many things we don't want to talk about here about Libya, we can't bring, but according to the Constitution, the President is responsible for all of this. So he had to come here and defend the thesis. Is it a surprise he didn't show up? Well, it's no surprise you didn't even come to the budget talks, but look at this shame, there's no minister from the government. You call it such an important thesis, you call it such a big argument, you try to take the Turkish soldier to the Fizan Desert, you try to rewrite the Yemeni songs, but there's no minister here. Shame on you. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] Congressmans, yes, history and geography pull us off our skirts, but we Turkish people don't want innocent people's blood flowing. People ask, "What were we doing in Syria?" They ask: "What are we doing in Libya?" "What are we doing in Syria?" Have you forgotten that the Balkan War took place in 1912, as conflicts continued in Libya? Why are you splitting the navy's power in two, when there are so many troubles and tensions in the eastern Mediterranean? Since we started the Syrian business in the wrong way, we stopped taking down Assad, where millions were at our door, including Al Qaedaci terrorists, and just yesterday, the head of HTŞ, in Idlib. Speaking of times like these, it requires efficient, efficient, efficient diplomats and officers. Listen to this savings that you've neutralized with your ideological gaze, call them. They will explain to you on the grounds that your work in Libya may lead to a major crisis of legitimacy in the United Nations and international law. Keep in mind this fact: The forces waiting in ambush are waiting for you to make these mistakes, that is, to send military forces to Libya. Do you have any idea why they haven't made the noise they can right now? What did I tell you when we got involved in the Syrian business: every martyr we gave up on a non-national matter will be killed. I told you, you will shed a lot of Muslim blood, I told you. Now, I'm going one step ahead of those words: Come, don't drown in the blood of innocent martyrs for false bargains that you don't know about. Or was the blue homeland agreement signed in exchange for the promise to send troops to Libya? AS A GOOD PARTY, where our national security is not threatened, we can't be responsible for making a clear target of an alliance from Russia to Egypt, Saudi Emirates, and most importantly, to the forces of General Hafter that these countries support, and to this thesis, we will say no. Today our responsibility is to the law of the great Turkish nation, fear only God. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0018par0180	Thank you. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0019par0184	Mr. President, thank you. Not just today, but every day, you must fear God, Mr. Cherry; first let me point it out. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] This is wrong: It is wrong to take a stand from here to the party groups, no matter which person it is and which group it is against; when I speak, you cannot speak on the phone from there. It's not just about the attitude of Çiray. We blame and condemn whoever does it and does it against any party group, and we condemn Mr. Chiray. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Secondly, Mr. Chiray here gave the speech of a certain no attitude, their appreciation, and they can do it. But what I do know is that they've come to this decision in the last hour and a half, and they've had a lot of negotiations, and what have they discussed? Third: This claim of looting and looting is shameful. I just want to underline it, and I don't want to talk about it anymore. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0020par0193	Mr. Dervisoglu, come in.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0021par0195	I salute the General Assembly. Besides, I wish everyone a happy New Year. We're here to discuss a thesis that contains very important signs of Turkey's future, and we're about to vote. Of course, we expect the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to act with great sensitivity. Therefore, I feel that the speakers who speak on the stand deserve respect in this sense. In addition, we, the GOOD PARTY, do not agree to be instructed on decisions regarding Turkey's future. So we do deep consultations, and we run democracy within the party. So it took us a long time to decide on this statement that the presidency sent to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I want to make it clear to those who take this decision in a short time. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] In addition, sir, our orator has been made a direct accusation, and I ask that he be given an answer according to Article 69 of the Civil Code. My compliments to the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0022par0202	Mr. Cherry, come in.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0023par0203	According to the Civil Charter 69, two minutes will be left on the stand, so do not neglect the new procedure.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0022par0204	Do you want to talk about the bench or your place?
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0024par0205	Sir, because the name is mentioned, the Civil Code will be removed according to 69.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0022par0206	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0025par0209	Dear friends, in essence, Mr. President of the Group has given a four-headed response to this taunt and explained our processes. AS A GOOD PARTY, since this came up, we've had several meetings in at least four or five Presidential Courts, including members of the Presidential Court assigned to this job, and, other than that, as a strategist, including Mr. Hope Özdağ. Finally, with information as a result of these meetings and debates, we have unanimously agreed to listen to all the MPs at our meeting today, attended by Mr. President General, and in accordance with their decisions. So in the good PARTI, democratic processes work in all stages because that's how we're used to it, democracy is in the spirit of the party's founding spirit. Since we come in the struggle for democracy, we continue with a political understanding that suits the spirit of this organization. As for my other sensitivities, it's not just a session, as I just said, we're talking about a war thesis, and with this decision, we're going to send our children to the deserts of Fizan to be martyrs. We all need to be more careful in a conjunctive like this, or we have no intention of hurting or upsetting anyone. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0026par0214	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Manisa MP Erkan Akçay. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0027par0221	Mr. President, I have been sworn in by the National Movement Party Group on behalf of the presidential thesis. I salute your honorable committee. As it is known, the Turkish Republic and the Libyan National Covenant Government signed two agreements in Istanbul on November 27, 2019: one is the limitation of naval jurisdictions, and the other is the security and military cooperation. In accordance with the provisions of the Security and Military Business Association Covenant, which was adopted by our parliament, Libya's legitimate National Covenant government demanded military support and cooperation from Turkey. The support given to Libya is a legal obligation and a commitment to national memory. It is the unconditional necessity of the national stance to stand up for the empirical empirical agenda, not next to the focal points that try to finance illegal actors such as Hafter by supporting instability in the region. At a time when history and geography have been reformed, Turkey is contributing to both national interests and regional peace; the event in diplomacy is supported by power in the field. As it is known, there has been an alliance of evil against Turkey due to natural resources in the eastern Mediterranean. Egypt, Israel, Greece and the Greek Cypriot Greek Cypriots met to seize Turkey's rights to sovereignty in the Mediterranean. Against these countries, which are supported by the United States and the EU, Turkey has taken decisive action in diplomacy and the field to preserve sovereignty rights. In the field, with the activities of drilling and research ships, the blue homeland sea drills are decisive steps against the policy of surrounding our country. During this time, our sovereignty rights in the Eastern Mediterranean would have to be supported by bilateral agreements. In this context, the agreements with Libya are a good step towards protecting our rights and laws in the Mediterranean. On 5 December 2019, we adopted the agreement to limit naval jurisdictions with Libya. Thus, with Turkey's jurisdictions in the Mediterranean, we have also confirmed the operational limits of national security. On 21 December 2019, our Parliament approved the agreement on security and military co-operation as a complement of the treaty for limiting naval jurisdictions. As security and military co-operation areas are organised in the fourth article of the report, the Turkish soldier may go to Libya on the basis of military planning, training and training activities and the use of the weapons system and equipment, if an invitation and demand comes from Libya. Given these two agreements together, the preservation of Turkey's right to property and sovereignty in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea depends on the continued existence of the legitimate government in Libya, the security, stability and peace of this country. This is a statement that supports Libya's stability, peace and security that preserves Turkey's rights and interests in the Eastern Mediterranean, and contributes to regional peace. The limitation of naval jurisdictions and military cooperation agreements, the continuation of the movement field we won in the Eastern Mediterranean, the continuation of the political and legal initiative we gained in the region, are based on the strong will of this thesis. The agreements we signed with Libya, Greece, Egypt, Israel, the Greek Cypriot region, have led to panic. They view the illegal ringleader Hafter....as a subcontractor of Turkey's projects to compress Turkey and keep Libya in chaos in the region. A minister from Greece has even gone to meet with the war criminal Hafter. Dear lawmakers are an important area of the Eastern Mediterranean world geopolitics. Regional developments make it necessary for Turkey to be strong and effective in this field. Across Turkey are countries with what they call the Eastern Mediterranean Gas Forum, Egypt, Greece, Greek Cypriot and Israel. These countries are supported by the United States and by the EU; the goal is to get the energy from the Eastern Mediterranean to Europe, which will exclude Turkey from the sea. Seeing this big game, Turkey signed a naval jurisdiction agreement with Libya, which meets the rights and interests of international law with its national benefits. The declarations of sanctions from the EU, from Israel, Greece, Egypt, and against us all are of no consequence. The eastern Mediterranean now points to a wider geography, including Libya. The rule of the Libyan National Covenant government, which signed and ratified the agreements, is as important for Turkey and Libya as it is for the future of the Eastern Mediterranean. We're speaking in terms of bilateral relations, that's true, but it's incomplete. Another dimension is Turkey's contribution and support to international peace and security. The contribution to international peace, security and stability is the basis of international law. As the Republic of Turkey, we combine the responsibility that the geography puts on us with this consciousness due to international law, and contribute to regional and international activities. It is a guarantee of stability and peace in every Turkish peacekeeping force that the Republic of Turkey has given him the mandate and authority to carry our moon-stared al flag. Turkey is already contributing to the United Nations Peace Corps and the Construction of Peace in 12 countries. We're among the first 15 countries to contribute the most to these operations. Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania, Afghanistan, Iraq, Azerbaijan, Kosovo, Somalia, Qatar, Lebanon, Liberia, Sudan, Haiti, Syria, what we do, and what we do for Libya. Please note that it is legal for international law to send troops to Libya, provide weapons and ammunition and support for technical and military information. United Nations Security Council Resolution 2259 in 2015 gives Turkey and other United Nations member states this responsibility. In the United Nations Security Council Resolution 2259 in 2015, the only legitimate and legal government representing Libya was declared to be the Government of the National Covenant under the Libyan Political Agreement. Again, the same decision called for support of this legitimate government and Libyan organisations referred to in the agreement, but no further support for parallel structures that were not included in the agreement and no further contact with them. In addition, the conflict environment in Libya threatens the safety of Turkish companies operating in Libya, including the deaths of civilians, the activities of terrorist organisations such as DEAŞ and Al Qaeda. In addition to all these legitimate and human reasons, Turkey is acting on the right and responsibility of international law. In this scope, the diplomatic contact and co-operation with these countries on Libya will strengthen Turkey's efforts to contribute to regional peace, given the potential to be affected by what happened to Sudan, as well as countries such as Tunisia and Italy, which are adjacent to Libya, on the Mediterranean coast. As a matter of fact, these countries are largely behind support for the Libyan National Covenant Government. Turkey, which offers the strongest contribution in peace and security through international organisations, again, has nothing wrong or unofficially committed cross-border operations to protect its own security under international law. Turkey operates on a right, legal and legitimate basis. Our Turkish Armed Forces are a noble and glorious army that teaches the world the most beautiful lessons of humanity in all operations. The dove of Turkish military peace, the eagle of war, is a steel fist in velvet gloves. And it's also important to remember that our Mehmetdjik, which was planned to be sent to Libya today, is a thousand times in 1911, as well as the necessaries of the same national memory as Mustafa Kemal, Enver Paşa, Kürfüşref, Ali Fethi Bey, Nuri Bey, and many others who fought for Libya's sake. Libya, a sister country that has been cleansed of chaos and has ensured its sovereignty and stability, is of great importance to the geography of our country. The elements of the Turkish Armed Forces, which will be sent to Libya under what we call the key stone of national security, will be one of the torches of self-defense, surrounded by international focus. Precious lawmakers will maintain critical gains obtained by the acceptance of Libyan understanding with Libya, and relations with Libyan Turkey with critical importance will be strengthened, and the fight will increase in all aspects of Libya, where various actors, including the EU, are trying to be effective, and in Africa, because of the presence and policies of the East Mediterranean and Syria, will gain a new level of superiority over countries operating against Turkey. The Mediterranean will have the opportunity to establish a central position, and the opportunity to carry out the environmental policy for Greece will be even more initiative. There are also strategic consequences to the agreements with Libya, as well as to the admission of this thesis. These results also shape the future of Turkish foreign policy. The first is the emergence of Eastern Mediterranean politics from Cyprus parentheses in terms of Turkey. Turkey thus blocked a solution in Cyprus against the interests of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and Turkey, and, on the other hand, ruled out the possibility of abolition of our international rights due to international law as an excuse for Cyprus. Second, Turkey's EU process will be affected. The 20-year-old accession negotiation process has been calculated to be blocked by the excuse of Cyprus and again to stop Turkey in the Mediterranean. Third, Turkey's Mediterranean politics will be based on international law with the concept of a blue country. Fourth, the building ground of Turkish foreign policy has been reinforced. The principles that dominate foreign policy are international law, legitimacy, right timing, conjunctural alliances, result-oriented activities and the construction of new reality after initiative. We must consider what might happen if they are not accepted and sent to Libya. Turkey's blue homeland doctrine will be struck and our gains will be compromised. Libyan people seeking support from Turkey can be subjected to inhumane treatment by the illegal Hafter administration. In Libya, the most critical country in North Africa, the anti-Turkey front will be effective, and our principle of meeting the threat ahead and defending our national borders will fail. The sovereignty of the anti-Turkey front in Libya will encourage anti-Turkey formations in other states in Africa. The loss of control of the legitimate government supported by Turkey could undermine Turkey's credibility around the world, causing a crisis of trust for Turkey in friendly countries. Dear MPs, the future of our geography is irrational that Turkey is indifferent to this situation while it is being tried to be shaped by countries with historical and imperial ambitions in the region through internal turmoil and custody wars. If the imperial game in Syria and Libya is undetected and there is no action against this game, our country will be wiped out by sleeping nations. As a result, Turkish foreign policy has been acting on the principle of activity in the past few years, in the area and in the past year. Turkey's national interests are being established and protected by strong stances in these two areas. We've seen in this period that if you're strong in the field, you're strong at the table. With this principle, Turkey supports Libyan territorial integrity, stability, legitimate institutions, political independence in the face of any attempt to threaten Libyan security and stability, because what happens in Libya is not only in this country, but in the entire region and Turkey. With this statement, we protect our blue homeland in the Mediterranean, preventing our rights from being seized, and contribute to the stability and regional peace of the sister country Libya. The reality at the table will also be riveted in the field. Turkey is not condemned to issues and developments in the Eastern Mediterranean, but is in the dominant position and is determined to continue in its position. Turkey is not going to fight Libya, but to support the legitimate Government of the National Covenant, as predicted by the establishment of peace and peace and decisions of the United Nations. As I end my speech here, I declare that we will vote as the National Movement Party. I salute your honorable committee.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0028par0243	Thank you. Dear friends, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Tulay Hatimlari Oruç is in Adana MP. Here you are, Mr. Hathimsons, fasting.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0029par0247	Mr. President, I'm celebrating everyone's new year. As lawmakers, we have issued messages as politicians; we have asked for peace and peace; we are facing peace and geography only on the 2nd day of the year -- unfortunately, we are facing a war thesis -- and it seems that power has yet to declare it to Turkey and the world's public on the 2nd day of the year, not to give up war politics and war-based foreign policy. Yes, a few weeks ago, a memorandum of understanding came to the House: The Covenant of the Responsibility of Restricting Sea Authority Areas in the Mediterranean. We, the HDP, said no to that because we were well aware that that cloud would bring these rains, and we said: "There will surely, surely, come military agreements and regulations." As a result, we were not wrong, and in a very short period of time, our righteousness came out. Again, a quick agreement with Libyan security and military co-operation came in; again, Parliament passed it through a meeting of almost extraordinary conditions, with AKP and DP votes from the General Assembly. Again, in the same way -- I'm putting aside the Civil Code debate -- I'd like to point out that I object to the extraordinary gathering of the House in this way. Look, there's just been a roll call today, and the ruling party's ranks are packed, but at budget talks, the ruling party, unfortunately, has not shown the same interest in an issue involving 82 million people in Turkey, lawmakers of the ruling party. Yes, dear friends, we'd like to rephrase this statement: we call it clearly no, because it means that once again the great failure of power in foreign politics and its precious loneliness. We have to look at the recent history of what this government has done in Syria. Look, ever since the war began in Syria in 2011, ISIS, al-Qaeda, his extensions were clearly supported by Nusra gangs, and dialogue with the legitimate Syrian government has been cut down like a knife. In the end, here, we've expressed more than this bench, the mistakes made in Syria. What happened at the point of arrival? The zero-problem policy with the neighbors has left itself to zero peace with the neighbors. The olive branch, the Firat Shield, the Battle of Peace, the seeds of hostility planted on the 911km border remained, and the resentments deepened with the Kurdish people living in four parts of the Kurds, and the hatred of the Arab people was earned. Hundreds of thousands of people lost their lives in Syria; millions of them pursued their migration; hundreds of thousands of houses were burned down, destroyed, and that's what remained of this war's journey. We, at the time, stated that Turkey, as a neighbouring country, could have played a role in stopping conflict in Syria, for the establishment of peace and peace. But who's listening? Now, our valued citizens who are watching us at the beginning of their screens are going to ask us: "You are talking and the ruling party will do what it knows, will it listen to you?" We already know that they are not listening to us, but we will continue to say our word to make our own understanding of peaceful, equitable, democratic, liberal and fair politics effective both in foreign policy and outside the House. Yes, I'd like to take a moment to think about the reasons for this Libyan war that we've seized as we enter 2020. The world is globalized now, and we can't protect borders from zero points, we have to conduct preventive war policies, we have to enter land far beyond the border of land and blue -- I underline this -- by violating the law, by violating the border. We want to remind you that beyond the borders of this country, the borders of other countries begin. And the way you sent soldiers... the way people live at border lengths in Turkey... and the way we live our lives in the heart of Ankara right now... you're trying to send soldiers to places where Libyans live like this, in Syria, in Afrin, where people live like that. That's spreading politics. In international literature, it is also called "impression"; it is called "internal intervention" in international literature; it is called "exploiting." That's how you need to know. This government continues to add black pages to the history of this country. ▪ It is called the preservation of the seas. The eastern Mediterranean has now become an important agenda for the country, for the whole world's public opinion; it is true. Natural gas reserves have fueled the appetite of all imperialist forces, and power here wants to overcome beyond its own naval jurisdictions and take initiative in the Eastern Mediterranean. We've already stated that the right to search for natural gas reserves within the limits of marine jurisdiction is the right of Turkey, as belongs to any country, but right now Turkey is pushing something else here, trying to raise tension here, and it wants to feed inside, in domestic politics. Another point is that it's never calculated. It is said that, again, our own security in the Eastern Mediterranean is................. in the Libyan civil war. Of course, in the environment where you're right, let's put everyone in front of us, but with this injustice and injustice, you have to let go of making more enemies. We also need to point out that we have no boundaries with Libya, but tomorrow, to convince the public of this power, our Libyan borders are at stake. The question of legitimacy is that this power, in this moment, in constant, chorus, wants to give itself legitimacy from here, claiming that the National Covenant government in Tripoli is a government that the United Nations accepts and sees legitimate. We have to say, yes, that the United Nations, in 2015 -- it was a one-year agreement with the Suheyrat Agreement -- developed statements that the government was legitimate, but this was not a dry rhetoric alone, but that it should also be: National unity conferences would begin, and the Libyan House of Representatives, which was based in 1987, would be approved by the Council of Representatives. Is this happening? No, none of this has happened, and therefore the legitimacy of this Ihvanist Tripoli government is a subject of both Turkey and the world's public debate. We want to ask the government, who is constantly behind the United Nations, the question is that the United Nations Security Council has long decided not to send weapons to Libya for either side, the arms embargo, because there is a feeling that when the gun is not reached, there will be no further conflict. But who drilled it first? Turkey. We know that not only this year, Turkey has supported the government of Ihvanist Tripoli in every way, but in every sense. Both security and military cooperation agreements and the current thesis are made to make what is already a little bit clearer, to legitimize existing support. Look, I'd like to continue with the Idlib example in order to see our achievements, and I propose a review with Idlib and Libya. Turkey was given 12 observation points, especially in talks with Russia, as a result of decisions made in Sochi and Astana. Is that correct? That's right. Is Turkey settled there? It's settled. So, what happened? At this point, the government of Russia and Syria, which also had opportunities for developments in Libya, has increased their conflict and increased their operations to establish complete control over the government of Syria. So, what does Turkey have left? We've got to leave the 12 points of observation one by one. So, what did Russia do here? Russia continued its line in Idlib, taking advantage of Turkey's wrong foreign policy, especially the AKP's. There is nothing left for Turkey. Again, dear friends, the emphasis is very important: people from Turkey's organisation, especially four centres from Turkey and Afrin, Feylak al-Sham of the Syrian National Army, Sultan Murat Brigades, and from various organisations whose name I can't name are being sent to Libya to fight, and their salary promises are two thousand dollars. In the same way, we are experiencing an example that Turkey will officially launch with this war, a period of similar commitments made by SAADAT, where paramilitary forces, corporations, will now fight. Yes, various war crimes are being committed here, and the reason for this thesis is that conflicts in Libya strengthen ISIS and Al-Qaeda, but the opposite -- so far we've told -- we want to stress that there are steps that will support the strengthening of the line of the Ihvanist from Libya from Syria to Morocco. So, in light of all these developments, what's left of Idlib? Why do I ask this because we believe that tomorrow we will ask the question here again? So I ask the question: What is left of Idlib? Syria has returned to the scene of the fire, and there is an environment where lhvanists and derivatives can be dealt with at any moment, with Kurds, poverty has been deepened, the regime of oppression has been strengthened in Turkey, and the inventions of this power have, unfortunately, become huge stains on the black pages of history. I would like to stress again what Russia's attitude and Russia's attitude are not paying attention in determining its own foreign policy -- especially since it is in the hands of Russia. Russia, for example, is watching a policy that doesn't put all the eggs in the same basket, so it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's not going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's If you're working together, I suggest you study this and those policies, not because you're doing the right thing and I'm defending them. For example, what will Russia do here when Turkey enters Libya? He will establish dialogue with the lhvanists through Turkey, and with Turkey's entry there, he will increase the needs of Hafter forces for Russia, so Russia will use this policy of power in some way to become more rooted in Libya, so that it will have more initiative in the energy market, in the rival basin. So here, along with this thesis, we want to be made a country that opens the way for Libyan ambitions on a global scale, but ultimately has nothing. Of course, we need to see what Tunisia does. He's coming out with claims of the great quarterback, and he considers this power and opposition to be a lazy one who doesn't know how to play the game. Look, the President is in a hurry to Tunisia by canceling his program; there is a 500km limit to Tunisia; he aims to use it as an exponential, but in return, he receives his answer. Indeed, a mental eclipse is not supported by Tunisia, which has a 500km limit to Libya, but by holding an open side. Gannushi, the president's most trusted, leader of El Nahda, and Chairman of the House of Representatives, says very clearly: "Tunus is not on the side of the war in Libya, he is a good negotiator seeking peace in Libya." There must be lessons from Tunisia, Gannushi. Again, they wanted to convince Tunisia again that the Libyan table, which will be created by Germany's initiative in the next period, would also like to increase its supporters there, on the one hand in the field -- my word on it -- is the diplomacy -- but when you land in the field like this, you'll have nothing of diplomacy left, and the obvious example of what you don't have is Tunisia. Yes, this war does not have a legitimacy in the Arab Union or the African Union; there are reprimands and opposing explanations of Libyan intervention coming from everywhere; power must return and assess it. Today, we have expressed much of the cost of this war to the country's economy. Look, the security and military co-operation agreement would cover all costs. The notice was passed, and now there will be soldiers of poor folk in Turkey who will be sent there, and there will be an opening for their bloodshed in those deserts. Yeah, this regime is definitely blocked. This regime has gone on a Libyan expedition to strengthen the arms industry, expand the marketplace in the Middle East and North Africa, make the Bayraktars even richer. Again, this government, the regime that this government has developed, shows us once again that it's blocked, economic, political, social, legal, in every way. The violation of human rights, the elimination of freedoms, is now knee-deep in this country. The mind of such an understanding, of course, works primarily in the politics of war. You want to create a war mood with rhetorics such as quarterbacks in the region, and you want to consolidate your own base, not only that, but you want to put the opposition behind you for security reasons, but now the chorus is too old, and I'm betting that the opposition and the people of Turkey are too old for that. Look, Hitler's Nazi Germany has taken steps to pave the way for World War II. What happened? You all know what the destruction and the destruction of World War II cost all over the world. Yes, in this painting, it's a war campaign to Libya to throw the country into the ring of fire. We won't be watching this painting because there are poor children of the people sent to war in this circle of fire, children of poor families, because there are people in the Middle East and North Africa, women, children, poor people, nature, because there is blood, tears, and migration in this circle of fire, and the blue waters of the Mediterranean have become a tomb to countless children, women, and human beings. In this geography, there are more human bodies, human blood, human lives, than oil and natural gas under land and water. Ibn Haldun said Geography is destiny. How well he said it, Haldun the Ibn. Of course, the mountain of geography, the stone, the soil, gives a man his character, his anger at a society. But those who have misinterpreted Ibn Haldun (Ibn Haldun) have seen the blood of this colony for centuries, and the tears, and the colonialism; and we are against it. We say that we can all change the good fortune of this geography together, and we can start by saying, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We emphasize that politics and diplomacy must be immediately established in international politics. The Jihadist can stand in front of war tourism, private companies' war campaigns, soldiers, poor people's children in Libya by saying, "No." Thank you.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0030par0273	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Ahmet Ünal Çiviçüşöz is now in charge. Here you go, Mr. Quickie.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0031par0277	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the matter of sending soldiers to Libya. I hereby salute the High Council. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, as the first General Assembly meeting of the new year, I sincerely wish to congratulate you on your new year. Mr. President, this year we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of the opening of our House. I know how much you care about that. And as the Republican People's Party, we care a lot. So at this first meeting of this year, we show our presence here with as much participation as possible. I wish that the decisions made in the General Assembly would be in the spirit of the 100th year, as well as in the principles of the establishment of our great Assembly, and in the historical background of this institution. But I'm afraid we understand from today's agenda that this situation will remain only with wish. I wish the Justice and Development Party MPs would be here to hear the opposition's views in a more crowded manner during the General Assembly's first session in the year of the 100th anniversary of our Parliament. Dear MPs, today we have been invited to an extraordinary meeting to discuss the future of our country, our citizens, our armed forces, perhaps even a historic decision and a review: the sending of our Armed Forces to Libya. It is important because power is about to put Turkey in great danger with this decision. Historically because we are on the verge of deciding whether to send Turkey's Armed Forces to another country's lands for a purpose that we have not encountered in previous examples, and is not comparable to earlier examples. In short, I'd like to remind you of some developments in the history order of our esteemed deputies: The government signed two agreements with the Libyan National Covenant Government on November 27th. On December 10th, Mr. Erdogan said that Libyan administration or its people will be sent to Libya if they demand it on TV. There are no papers yet, and even more signed agreements are not yet in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. But what? There's an order from the palace, it says: invite us, invite us, so we can come. On December 11th, at a meeting of the Turkish Grand National Assembly Foreign Commission, the Deputy Foreign Minister briefed members of the Commission on the Memorandum of Covenant to Limiting Marine Authority Areas signed with Libya even though it was not on the agenda. During this briefing, we asked: Libyan and I have two agreements signed, and the news reports say they will send troops to Libya, and what's the second chief? Aren't you going to tell me about this? In fact, we expressed our concern as to whether the Libyan side wanted the Covenant of the Security and Military Business Association to sign the Covenant. We were given an explanation that the two of them had nothing to do with each other. On December 12th, this time, the Foreign Affairs Commission was called to an extraordinary meeting and a consensus on naval jurisdictions was put on the agenda. We have stated that we look positively at this understanding account because of the balances in the Eastern Mediterranean. On the other hand, we also kept warning that Turkey would not be dragged into a pointless and dangerous adventure in Libya. On December 14th, the Security and Business Union Covenant Covenant, which was left behind in its so-called unconcerned and ignored air, was transferred to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, followed by a call for an extraordinary meeting by the Foreign Commission on December 16th. We also expressed our objections there, and we made it clear that, above all, the chief of staff included articles contrary to international law and the UN Security Council decisions, and that this agreement was capable of leading Turkey into a war in Libya. In fact, at the time, we said that the door was opened for Turkey to send military forces to Libya. Our warnings were also ignored, and the agreement was made clear that it had only foreseen an education and cooperation, that it did not foresee the sending of combat forces. Dear lawmakers, in a nutshell, what lies ahead of us today is a premeditated call for disaster to send our armed forces into the Libyan deserts with orders from the palace. I'd like to underline that. This is not a motion by Turkey to send troops to remote geography, but a declaration of war that will send a Turkish soldier to Libya to fight. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey must not be used as a tool for the policies and orders of the palace, especially by being called to an extraordinary meeting on the 100th anniversary of its establishment. Here, we began our work by swearing from this bench, by the votes of our nation, we became the nation's deputy, and let us continue to be the nation's deputy with honor. Dear lawmakers, it may be those of you who feel that sending our troops to Libya is a need for national security. I'd like to emphasize that in order to avoid any misunderstanding, the statement of national security is never mentioned in the reasons why our troops should be sent to Libya for a year to act and intervene. What are these national interests, who's describing the national interests? The ones who invite the war and order the troops? There's no description of any of our national interests that are threatened or at risk in any part of this thesis text. Do you know why this is important? You're sending military forces to Libya, you're putting your troops in the middle of the threat of life safety in a foreign country in which a civil war is taking place, so you're attempting a military action, but your political goal is unclear. Every military action has a political goal. That political goal is determined by national interests. Thus, the size of the military force will be determined to ensure the protection of these national interests, the type, and their goals. Our military elements, which will be sent here as unknown to national interests, have been left open, vague, and uncertain, with the term "appreciated and appointed" by the President of the Republic. So the order list is in the hands of the court. When the foundation of our High Assembly is asked to send troops abroad as a party to a war in the 100th year, a pressure is being put on you, so make the decision, and don't worry about the rest. We will never be able to approve a decision that leaves our great House, representing our national sovereignty, in this way, dysfunctional. [[CHP's "Bravo" lines, applauding, applauding, applauding from the good parties.]] Our armed forces are no one's private security force. Sons of a motherland can't be transported to Libyan deserts that way irresponsibly. What will you do when news of a martyr comes from Libya? Are you going to comfort their parents by saying that your son's death was fate, as if it were an ordinary accident? The international legitimacy of the Libyan National Covenant Government is based on the Suheyrat Agreement, which was signed in December 2015 and the United Nations Security Council's Resolution 2259. However, as many articles of the Suheyrat Agreement have not been implemented today, the House of Representatives, whose duties have been defined under this agreement, is also located inYorruq. Russia and France, one of the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council, strongly support Hafter. All of this shows that the opinion that the National Covenant government has international legitimacy lacks sound grounds and that the government in Tripoli stands on a fragile basis. Even though the Libyan National Covenant Government is recognized as a single and legitimate government, this legitimacy is seriously questioned. Now, on the one hand, the United Nations Security Council's decision 2259 is being referred to Libya to create a so-called international law-based legitimacy to send troops to Libya, but on the other hand, the same United Nations is attempting to send weapons, equipment, and soldiers to Libya, contrary to the 1970 Security Council's decision banning the deployment of weapons to Libya. These make the perceptions of insecurity, instability, dishonor, and unlawfulness that Turkey faces in international relations sharper and more lonely. Congressmans, this thesis is full of contradictions within itself. On the one hand, the human situation in Libya has worsened, and al-Qaeda-extreme organisations, particularly ISIS, are said to have achieved an efficient field of movement, which is said to be a threat to Libya and the region, while Turkey is said to take every precaution to address these threats. Have you had a comprehensive consultation with the countries of the region? As far as we can see, Tunisia says a military intervention in Libya is not right. Was there a consultation with Egypt? Was there a consultation with Algeria, with Sudan, with Chad, with Niger, with Niger? Let's go through this. Has there been a consultation with Italy, France, Greece? I've done it. The state is not ruled by its mentality. Members of parliament, with this mentality, Turkey cannot be subject to the Grand National Assembly. If we are faced with a mindset that has lost diplomatic ability, seeking the use of force, and preparing to sacrifice the child, it should be the duty of our great Parliament, which we are in, who has won the title of "Gazi". [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] There are reports that foreign elements are constantly shifting to Libya, that different planes have landed in Tripoli, that they are mercenaries from Idlib, from other parts of Syria, supported by our Armed Forces. Turkey should not be a tool for other countries in the region's power of attorney wars, not a trade in mercenaries. Do we not see the distress we face today in Syria, especially in Idlib? Are we going to fight Al Qaeda by sending jihadists to Libya? What is the meaning of the so - called Libyan National Army, mentioned in this thesis text? When you use this expression, you prepare the basis for the use of the same expression for the Syrian national army, which the government supports in Syria, and you have no words left to say to clear yourself. Dear lawmakers, it is in accordance with Article 92 of our Constitution that we are allowed to send our troops abroad. This is contrary to Article 92. The appeal does not meet the statement of international law because it violates the decisions of the United Nations Security Council. There is no such thing as the sudden armed assault of the country and the immediate decision of the use of the armed forces while Turkey's Grand National Assembly is on vacation or on recess. First of all, linking the trafficking of people and immigrants in Libya to a thesis brought to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey under Article 92 of the Constitution is not appropriate for reason and reason. Libyan-based human and immigrant trafficking is primarily the problem of European countries. When they're not even as advanced as Turkey, it's a problem, irresponsibility, which is the least we can say when we use it. In addition, security will be maintained against other possible risks, such as mass migration, and the cause for further conflict will be ineffective. The government, which has been exposed to immigration policy while trying to run a power policy in Syria, is now preparing to make that mistake in Libya. Dear lawmakers say the Libyan National Army and its commander, Hafter....are in an anti-Turkish position. Can this be corrected by diplomacy or by sending troops to Libya? I ask you, is it a wise and decisive foreign policy to seek out and fight against Turkey one by one? The whole world knows that it is the policies of power that turn a part of Libya against Turkey. The last thing to do is send troops into the country to reach a truce and peace in Libya. What's the content of the Libyan National Covenant government's request for support? According to the press, support is required to include all elements of land, air, and sea. Turkey's military support for Egypt, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Russia and France will lead to increased support for the Libyan National Army, particularly Hafter. Besides, it'll bring our troops against these countries we're counting. Dear MPs, the transcript lists a lot of grounds for military intervention. This was not enough, but it was made clear by statements such as all kinds of threats, such as all kinds of measures. The fact that Turkey's military intervention in Libya is compressed by one man's decision also makes sense to show the quality of the regime in our country. The legitimacy of Turkey's Libyan intervention must be discussed in terms of international law. First of all, there is no UN Security Council decision that approves this. Besides, there is no international umbrella. Moreover, the call of one of the parties in the civil war is insufficient to engage in such action. In a statement to the German daily DIE WELT, Muhamed al Kaballavi, spokesman for the State Department of the National Covenant Government, opposes the presence of foreign soldiers on Libyan soil so far. Instead, he noted that they wanted Germany to continue its mediation to end the civil war, adding that Berlin had no part in the conflict and that it was more accepted as a mediator than the other countries. So, as you can see from these words, there is confusion even in Libya about the Turkish soldier going to Libya. How passionately does the National Covenant government want us to send troops to Libya? Of course, after the order came in, his enthusiasm increased. Human aid needed by Libyan people can be delivered through the United Nations channel; it is not a matter of dissertation. There's no need to speculate on providing humanitarian aid needed by the Libyan people. Dear lawmakers, in order to avoid a difficult situation to make amends, instead of asking for a thesis, like the great states, Russia or Germany, both parties should be contacted, and diplomatic channels should be kept open. While Turkey acts with an obsession, other states determine their maneuvers based on progress in the field. Italy is an example. Libya is not only a country in civil war, it is also a country where the tribes are very strong and the conflicts of the tribes are very violent. Libya is in need of combat power. We should definitely not be in Libya as fighting forces. There is confusion on the ruling side on how to meet the demands of the National Covenant government. The government wants to hold historical ties with Libya, but Mustafa Kemal Ataturk has fought against the Libyan power of attorney, and you should know that he has gone to the historical stage of history, and he has said in 1923 that war must be mandatory and vital. My true opinion is that I should not feel remorse when I take the nation to war. We can go to war against those who say, "We will not die." But war is murder unless the nation's life is in danger. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] Given our country's sociological structure, power should not be a part of the internal affairs of ethnic and religious countries. With the relapse of Arab nationalism, Operation Fountain of Peace came to light, which would become even more obvious. In order for Turkey's opposition to Turkey not to grow stronger again in the Eastern Mediterranean, Turkey must not become a party, especially not to send our troops to civil war. What are we doing in Libya? It is not a narrow point of view; it is a requirement of the principle of peace and peace, which is the basis of our foreign policy. If there's a narrow point of view, it's the view of the government that trapped Turkey in a narrow area of foreign policy and trapped our country into a deep isolation. Again, if there is a narrow point of view, this narrow point of view is that the United Nations Security Council's decision, the 1970s decision, when the National Covenant government is granted legitimacy in the United Nations' view, is disregarded. It is clear that the ruling is not legitimate because the United Nations recognises the Government of the National Covenant in Libya, and does not accept the Damascus Administration in Syria even though the United Nations recognises the opposition in Syria as legitimate, while the entire world in Syria does not see the opposition as legitimate, a protector of the mercenaries who form this opposition, and what kind of description is the same government that calls them the Libyan National Army of Syria. It is also clear that the practices of power are focused on Ihvan solidarity. Sadly, this double standardist, but one-sided, myopic world view, has produced nothing but loneliness in the whole region and the world. You're going to say: "What is your solution?" Look, we're talking about taking initiative when we say diplomacy. Since you consider the National Covenant Government in Libya to be the legitimate government known to the United Nations, then invite the United Nations to serve. As a member of the United Nations, Turkey has the right to call on the United Nations to form a United Nations Peacekeeping Force and to make a decision on it.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0032par0309	Mr. Quickie, here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0031par0310	Call and say: "We as Turkey allow the United Nations to form such a peacekeeping force and send it to Libya, and we support it, and we are ready to contribute to the peacekeeping force." When you say that, you can be accepted as a respected international actor. You don't intend to do that? Then we're making this call for you from this podium. On the 100th anniversary of its establishment, our great assembly is a nation worthy of its glory and without condition. We expect it to act according to its motto. This behavior is the expectation of all our citizens; this behavior is the expectation of all patriotic military mothers. For all these reasons, I say we will vote negatively for this thesis, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0033par0314	Thank you. In the name of the Justice and Development Party Group, it is now the name of Sivas MP Ismet Yilmaz. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0034par0318	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to explain the views of our EC PARTY group on the presidential thesis on peace and security in our region. On this occasion, I salute you and our beloved nation who are watching us on the screens. At the very beginning of my speech, I remember all our martyrs with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude. And to our living veterans, God willing, I wish you a healthy, long life. I thank those who do their duty with great faith, courage, determination, and sacrifice for the peace and security of our country, and may Allah make their faces white. Mr. President, members of parliament, the protests that began in February 2011 during the Arab Spring process in Libya have turned into civil war, and the 42-year Gaddafi regime has collapsed following NATO's further developments in the crisis. In the following process, efforts to build democratic institutions have resulted in increased gunfights, creating a fragmented structure in the country. The Libyan Political Agreement was signed in Morocco on 17 December 2015, as a result of Libyan political dialogue, which lasted for nearly a year through the United Nations, which provided the establishment of peace and stability in Libya to end this fragmented structure. Under this agreement, the Libyan National Covenant Government has been recognised as the only and only legitimate government representing the United Nations Security Council Resolution 2259 in 2015 and Libya. This resolution of the United Nations Security Council called on member states to be given technical, economic, security support for Libya, which was committed on 13 December 2015 in Rome, and aided in the fight against terror by our country's Foreign Minister Mevlüt Sergeantoglu and Ankara MP Emrullah Hella, the 17 countries, including the United States Foreign Minister, the United Nations, the European Union, the Arab Union and representatives of the African Union. In the fight against international peace and security, the National Covenant government has been asked to provide the support it needs to demand by member states, and it has also been asked to co-operate with the Libyan government for human trafficking in the Mediterranean. In this decision, it was asked by member states not to give support to parallel organisations claiming legitimacy, other than those mentioned in the agreement, and to cut contact with them. Mr. President, lawmakers, why do you say that one of the orators who did not have a place in the Libyan Political Agreement has just said -- and the so-called Libyan National Army, which is illegitimate in this framework, continues its attacks to seize the capital, Tripoli, on 4 April 2019, and to overthrow the Government of the National Covenant. These attacks, targeting civilians and civilian infrastructure, are making the human situation worse in Libya. Conflicts and unstable conditions also lead to the use of Libyan territory and landwaters in the Mediterranean for human and immigrant trafficking, as terrorist organisations such as DEAS and Al Qaeda have led to the proper environment for their actions. All these developments pose a threat to the region, including Libya and Turkey. Turkish companies operating in Libya, Turkish citizens living in Libya, and Turkish band-aid ships in the Mediterranean are also being targeted by non-profit elements of Libyan National Army. In the event that the attacks of the Libyan National Army cannot be stopped and the conflicts turn into an intense civil war, Turkey's interests in both the Mediterranean basin and North Africa will be negatively affected. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, both Turkey and Libya are protected from international law in connection with the Memorandum of Agreement on the Restriction of Maritime Powers between Turkey and Libya. Given the historical, social, political and economic fundamental ties between the two countries, it is important for Turkey to maintain stability with the establishment of peace in Libya. With the Libyan National Covenant Government, the Covenant of Security and Military Business Association has been signed, and this Covenant of Covenant is the legal basis for our co-operation in matters such as organizing education and teaching programmes among our security institutions, sharing technical knowledge and experience, fighting terrorism and illegal immigration. On the basis of this Covenant, co-operation in the security field with the National Covenant Government will also contribute to the implementation of security reforms in Libya, one of the Berlin Process titles. Mr. President, members of the Libyan National Covenant Government has requested military support from Turkey in the fight against illegal arms groups and human trafficking, threatening Libya's integrity and stability, DEAŞ, al-Qaeda and other terrorist organizations. Turkey, which accepts itself as an African-Avrasian country, cannot be expected to remain indifferent, audience or call for support from Libya, which has historical, social and cultural ties. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] This is not the first thesis to be asked to authorize the Turkish Grand National Assembly for Libya. On 24 March 2011, he again came to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. As part of decisions made by the United Nations Security Council, which ensured the end of the violence in Libya, it has been agreed in this Parliament that the Turkish Armed Forces should be sent to foreign countries to contribute stability and security to the reconstruction of the Libyan Security Council, and that our government should be authorized to make necessary arrangements.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0035par0331	The decision has been made, the decision has been made by the General Assembly of the United Nations.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0034par0332	Our country, which is deeply interested in the future of Libya, is determined to continue to be with Libya in the framework of international efforts. In the framework of our country's political, economic, historical and cultural relations with the region, it is a requirement of our national interests, including the military contribution to implementing the UN Security Council decisions. That is also true today. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, members of parliament, Turkey, which contributed in 2011 to the restoration of trust and stability in Libya, should be helping Libya today, given the latest developments. Support for Libya, which will be voted today, will be in accordance with international law and the UN Security Council resolutions, and will require a historical and cultural background in Turkey's history with the Libyan state and its people. Libya dominates the Middle Mediterranean with its length of 1,780km, and is critical to the eastern Mediterranean. Their natural wealth also attracts many imperial powers. In an environment where an illegitimate force targets civilians, hospitals, schools, and all infrastructure, the representative of the Libyan people can't fit into the struggle of the legitimate Libyan government to survive and keep its people alive, neither in conscience nor interstate relations. Mr. President, lawmakers, the relationship between the two countries is based on historical friendship and trust. Libya is a loyal, friendly country with long historical and cultural ties to us, which is our neighbor in the area of the sea. At the beginning of the 20th century, the support of Gazi Mustafa Kemal (Gazi Mustafa Kemal) to the Libyan people's struggle with imperialism remains fresh in memory. One of our officers who fought against the Italian occupation of 1911 in Libya, Gunnery Captain Ali Haydar Efendi, served in the battle of Çanakkale after the Balkan Wars and died here. In its published memory, it describes how Libyan people welcomed our officers: "Glory be to Turkey," with the applause of 8 to 10,000 people, it continued for five hours. In the first World War, Mehmetçikler came to Çanakkale, from Tripoli, from Benghazi, from Derne. On March 18, 1915 in the Battle of the Bosphorus, Dardanos Batarya, one of the most important targets of the confiscation states, the heavy observative battalion was killed in the line of duty by Tripoli's Lieutenant Mehmet Mevsuf. From that day forward, the Dardanos Battery became known as the Hasan Mevsuf Battery. Sub-commander Abdulhamid Effendi, son of Tripolin Mehmet, son of Abdülhamid, son of Benghazili Hacı Ali Mehdi, son of Lieutenant Hüseyin Remzi Efendi, son of Abdullah of Tripoli, son of Mehmet, Captain Ali Sabir, son of Tripoli, son of Mehmet, Captain Ali Ulvi, son of Libyan Mehmet, son of Libya, son of Cemaller, son of Hussein, Huğazili, son of Haci Ali, son of Mahdi, son of Mahmut Azizler, and Yusuf Cemaller fought with us so that the state of Turkey would not fall down, and they became our blood brothers. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, Libya's support for our country during the U.S. embargo of the United States of Cyprus in 1974 cannot be forgotten. As it turns out, the two states and the people have thus far acted on a common sense of history. Today Libyan government and its people demand Turkey's help. This historical friendship and loyalty burdens Turkey with responsibilities that ensure the internal stability and peace of Libya. For Turkey's national interests, Turkey must support Libya today for the stability of the region and international peace. Mr. President, members of parliament, the Memorandum of Covenant on Limiting Turkey's Sea Authority Areas with Libya is a very important response to Greece, which seeks to restrict Turkey to its own landwaters, and to the countries that support it. Libyan peace and stability are the peace and stability of the region, with the same legal view of Turkey and Libyan rights and interests in the Eastern Mediterranean. We expect those who support that agreement to support it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Libya is vital not only for Turkey's national interests, but also for the stability of the region and international peace. Libya is the gateway of North Africa and sub-Saharan Africa to the Mediterranean. A container that was released from Istanbul reached Niamey, the capital of Niajer Province, in seven days through Libya, while in a row with no stability and no peace, a container that exited from Istanbul, the Suez Canal, and then reached Niamey via Benin in 70 days. This example demonstrates Libya's importance for Turkey's economy, regional trade and stability. Libya, where irregularity and instability continue, is also a haven for terrorist organisations such as the DEAS Turkey is fighting today. To eradicate terrorism, Turkey must support Libya, and the United Nations Security Council wants it. These issues, expressed in its main lines, show that Turkey must respond to the official invitation of its friendly and loyal Libyan people and their representative, the National Covenant Government. Mr. President, members of parliament, we, as Turkey, have argued that there has been no military solution to the Libyan problem since the beginning, that the current problems could be resolved permanently with the participation of all Libyans under the protection of the United Nations, with a political process conducted by Libyans personally. The fates of the brothers and sisters who clashed in Libya are common, and they will build a common future together. Turkey's primary duty is to contribute to the continuation of this brotherhood and to unite the sister tribes to show that peace will not be lost. That's what we've been sending messages to the international community and to all our contacts in Libya, and we're still giving them. We've supported diplomatic efforts, actively joined, and then we'll participate. Our goal is to ensure the successful end of the political process in the country, the stability of the Mediterranean and North Africa, as soon as possible. If this thesis is to be named, its main objective is to promote truce and stability in Libya.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0036par0347	By fighting, Mr. Secretary, are you going to fight? Are you going to make a truce by fighting?
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0034par0348	He will contribute to the ceasefire and create the appropriate environment for the political solution. In Libya, where we have long-standing relations in all areas, it is also in line with our national interests to respond positively to the request of the National Covenant government to help build a truce and peace. In the event of our Veteran Assembly's acceptance, our country will support the legitimate government and lead the region to instability, cause human tragedies, and prevent the destruction of our national interests. Turkey will take a more determined position in the international community for the protection of legitimacy in Libya. Mr. President, members of parliament, Libya is not just a geography of our emotional connection; Libya, which has been terrorized by its resources and threatened by its legitimate government, spreads instability in Turkey's territory. This is more of a matter of country security, future, gain than a party issue. In order not to bequeath greater threats and dangers to Turkey tomorrow, we must do what is expected of us today so as not to refer the problems to grandchildren. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The safety of its sacred borders begins beyond the limits. The fight against terrorism is the right of every country, and international law responds. Libya might be too far away for someone. Libya is our neighbor at sea. Libya is not just one of our sea bonds, but one of the most decisive countries in North Africa. When there is a crisis in North Africa, all Mediterranean countries are affected, including Turkey. What are we doing in Libya? The word repeats a narrow point of view. Mr. President, members of parliament, they call it "Risk." If you don't take any steps because there's a risk, you'll put your children at greater risk and threat. In foreign policy, you say, we are conducting our policy with a 360-degree perspective on foreign policy, and because it is, it is a country that has shown success in dealing with Russia and the Fountain of Peace with the United States.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0037par0355	Of course we will, of course!
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0034par0356	Mr. President, it is said that Turkey is alone. Turkey is never alone. In November of last year, Turkey would not have been elected to the council membership of the IMO (IMO) and for the first time in fifty-three years, a Turkish ambassador would not have been elected to the chairman of the UNESCO 40th General Conference. Turkey is strong, Turkey is respectable, and if it wasn't, the Libyan government wouldn't have asked for your help. Mr. President, a member of the United Nations Security Council has stated that Turkey's support is contrary to the decisions of the United Nations Security Council, which I would like to say is not true, because in the United Nations Security Council Resolution 2259, which recognises the National Covenant Government as a legitimate government representing Libya, they are asked to support the fight against terrorism in this framework. (AK PARTY) So he says, "Strength up your security and support the fight against terrorism." That's the only way to do it. So, what's the Security Council's decision there? His 1970 decision is aimed at preventing weapons from falling into the hands of terrorist organisations. Mr. President, lawmakers, in light of these debates, taking every precaution in the international framework against any threat and security risks against Turkey's national interests, providing the support demanded by the illegal armed groups in Libya, protecting Turkey's high interests by terrorist organisations, eliminating attacks that could lead to Turkey's Libyan interests, ensuring security against other possible risks and threats such as mass migration, providing that the Libyan people will have to be protected by the national Mutabatkat government, and that we will be able to ensure that the country's efforts to meet Turkey's higher interests, and to ensure that its armed forces will be used in order to ensure that its rights be used by the Turkish government. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, even the mention of this thesis is enough to give a different air in the region.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0038par0361	In Karabağ, lift up that air, and in Crimean, give it air.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0034par0362	Supporters of the illegitimate forces that have sought to take over Tripoli have now expressed that a political solution is essential in Libya. (EC PARTY) This is one of the positive outcomes of genius.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0039par0364	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0034par0365	Turkey supports a Libyan territorial integrity, stable, safe, and embraces all Libyan citizens. Turkey's side is all Libyan people. In Libya, an inclusive political solution will bring stability to the country and the region. As a country, we want peace in our region, political stability and solutions in Libya. In the process, it is important that our political parties show common will and sensitivity. A strong support from the Veteran Assembly would be a valuable contribution to the righteous struggle of our Libyan brothers, as well as to the fact that our country's interests in the Mediterranean will be defended by our nation to the end. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] He says we will support the argument with these thoughts, and he believes that this statement will be supported by the High Assembly, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0039par0369	Thank you. Congressmans, it's time for the political party representatives who don't have the group. İstanbul MP and Turkish Labour Party Chairman Mr. Erkan Baş. Here you go, Mr. Head.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0040par0374	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly and all its fellow citizens, who follow us at the beginning of the screens, who live by the sweat of our country, by the labor of our country, with love, from the heart. Unfortunately, once again, we have to talk about our country's children, our young brothers, being sent to fight a country miles away for the adventures of power. Starting with my remarks, I'd like to share with you that the Labour Party of Turkey is principlely opposed to any military operation of any country facing another country. The cheapest export property of the imperialist forces in Turkey. We reject all anti-war policies, which are a reflection of its understanding. To be honest, we're facing the last link of a process that we can extend to Adnan Menderes, with the so-called patriotism or beka literature, a characteristic of our country's right-wing power, all the way to Korea. What was the result after our troops went to Korea? Yes, the power of that period was what it wanted, and Turkey became fully dependent on NATO, the United States, and our country has not been able to get out of it for sixty-seven years. Aren't we supposed to learn a lesson here? History shows us one rule of Turkish foreign policy: whenever Turkey wants to be driven into a war with imperialist embers, power actually makes our country more dependent on imperialism, something similar to what we're facing today. Here we are, recently Syria: Remember, in 2012 we will enter the city, we will pray in the Emevi Mosque. We were involved in the process of disintegration in Syria, and today we are a country that is more dependent on both America and Russia. Let's continue with a question: Is peace, happiness, prosperity in any country in the world where soldiers from another country enter? Is there a single example of this? For example, look, when did we first meet the foreign policy of the Justice and Development Party? 2002. When Iraq was invaded by the United States, when hundreds of thousands of innocent Iraqis were killed, when millions of lives were destroyed, what were Recep Tayyip Erdogan doing, dear friends? I pray that the heroic young men and women of American soldiers return home with the least possible loss.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0041par0380	We've discussed this 100 times, we've discussed it 100 times. It's a shame!
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0040par0381	It's not me, it's Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0041par0382	Communist friend, this doesn't suit you!
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0040par0383	Dear friends, speaking of which, since you're wondering, I think your 17 years of power are in essence American, in essence collaborative with the United States, but you're supposed to be anti-US in the house. But let's be clear, we're dealing with the most American government in the history of Turkey. Dear friends, what is it called as a result of the same nationalist feelings? Our sending troops to Libya is a reflection of our agreement on economic areas in the eastern Mediterranean. It is called, such a national public opinion is being created. It's like the soldier's going to be there to protect our economic zones, creating this kind of air, trying to get social support. On the other hand, let's refer to Erdogan again: "We have no eyes on Libyan oils, our goal is humanitarian aid." During his visit to Libya, he said -- very interesting -- he has the Foreign Minister on his way to another country, you know, but there's the Minister of Energy, there's the Minister of Industry, there's an airplane full of businessmen. Did the businessmen go there to open charities or did the Minister of Energy want to open a library? Why are these ministers preferred; this shows something. We all know that the Justice and Development Party's interest in Libya is not in humanity, but in Libya's efforts to restore the sovereignty of Libyan oil and Islamist forces in Libya. What are you doing in Libya? I ask: What was Mustafa Kemal Kemal Tripoli doing in Tripoli? You start to doubt what you really know. Wasn't Tripoli Ottoman soil then? Isn't an officer going to protect his homeland? (HPP, HDP and GOOD PARTY) So you go to Vienna with this mentality. You can go all the way to Vienna if you do so. But let me warn you: when you try to imitate Mustafa Kemal, you will end up like Enver Pasha, and with those adventurous tendencies you will drag the country into destruction. [[Applause from CHP, HDP and GOOD PARTY]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll see what I can do, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0042par0391	Here you go, Mr. Head.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0040par0392	Of course, these interesting metaphors continue. I couldn't believe my eyes, yesterday, Mr. Vice President -- he fell into the press, and I tried to confirm a few things -- he says: "He who thinks of the end can't be a hero." Masters, be serious. Are we making a movie or are we playing a show, talking about people's lives? How can there be war policies based on film scenes like this? I wonder, have any of you ever looked at that map? This is a map of Libya, friends, today's map of Libya. That's the green area, that's the area where we're supposed to be making a deal, where they're supposed to be calling us. You know what this looks like? I'll be very clear, we're not a part of this civil war, we're against it because you're trying to turn us on our side. I'll just say it as a metaphor; in 1920, when the government of Ankara declares its sovereignty all over the state of Anatolia, come to a power and help me. You do the same thing now that goes there when you say, "Come help me." That can't be an approach. [[Applause from CHP, HDP and GOOD PARTY]] Moving on. You're saying, let's be serious, the legitimate government known to the United Nations.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0042par0396	Mr. Head, let's wrap this up, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0040par0398	I am, Mr. President. If it is called the legitimate government known by the United Nations, then what are we doing in Syria, which the United Nations know? Wouldn't they be looking for an internal consistency here? Please, dear friends, we have to be a little serious because we run a country. The lives of the young people of this country will be the lives of their children, and, you know, war is cursed all over the world. If the imperialists, the colonists attack our country, of course there will be a defence war against it, and it will be a righteous war. But similar approaches, the government's arguments today, not just wars, and I'm telling you, dear friends, the children of a country founded in a fight against occupation, can't take the occupying position, and the invaders have always lost. Now, they're not just asking us if you're saying yes or no to the Libyan thesis. I want to ask you one more thing: shall we say yes or no? Would you like to see Libyan soldiers in Ankara? Are you satisfied with the American soldiers in Turkey? Say 'yes' or 'no'.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0043par0403	Thank you. Friends, it's time for you to take a seat in the office of Sadadet Party MP Abdulkadir Karaduman. Here you go, Mr. Blackduman.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0044par0407	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. The most important thing to be concerned about is the consultation, of course, when matters that are vital to our country are being discussed. In this direction, we find it important that Mr. Mevlüt Çavoğlu visited political party leaders regarding the Libyan thesis, but there have been two mistakes in this process: First, the MPs who are the main and responsible for this process have not been informed, and second, until now, the Party of Saadet, especially Syria, has not been visited, which has been justified in their warnings and warnings; these are serious errors. The main reason you can't get rid of the instability in foreign policy between the S-400 and F-35 is because you insist on resolving problems with stubbornness, not consultation. Today, we have to put Libyan reasons on the table. Of course, it is imperative that we discuss not only Libya but also the reasons why Iraq, Syria, Yemen, divided and broken up. What was the Great Middle East Project of the United States? How many countries have been torn apart, how many innocents murdered, and how many people have been turned into refugees? As long as all of this is not illuminated, it will be impossible to know what steps are being taken to accomplish what purpose. While the world has turned its back on us in Operation Peace of Cyprus, Libya, which supports logistics, has become a country of instability and conflict as a result of false policies. What is NATO doing in Libya? The day after you say, "NATO must enter Libya to register Libyan property." When you said, we did our warnings, but unfortunately, your policy opened the way for NATO to tear Libyan apart Libyan. As a matter of fact, NATO planes took off from İzmir and bombed Libya. Eventually, a conflict between different groups began in Libya, just as it did in Iraq and Syria. Unfortunately, the Middle East and Islam were more than just passengers on the road to disintegrating and disintegrating geography. But in light of all of this, we're doing our warnings today as we did yesterday. Of course, our country has the right to respond to all foreign threats and attacks, but it must act in accordance with its historical experience and regional weight in its policies towards Islamic countries, including Libya. He shouldn't have made mistakes about Libya before, there shouldn't be any side to the heat of the conflict. He must play the role of intermediary against disruptors. It's easy to start a war, but of course it's hard to end it. Whatever the circumstances, diplomatic channels must be pushed to the end for peace. In our geography, we need to be alert and careful of global games that want to create a new war environment. Each step must be taken with a sensitivity and a teenager in accordance with our country's historical experience. It must not be forgotten that permanent stability and peace in Libya will be achieved by dialogue and negotiation among the parties, not by weapons. In the process, global plans and games that want to drag Turkey into a hot war should not be ignored, but should be careful of the possibility of provocation. The Great Middle East Project has been trying to take effect on our region for a long time. In this framework, a new hot conflict in our region will serve not Muslims, but global forces implementing the divide-and-break-up policy. Turkey currently holds the presidency of three key organisations, such as the Islamic Co-operation Agency, D-8 and the Economic Co-operation Agency.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0045par0415	Mr. Blackduman, please.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0044par0416	That indeed is a mighty opportunity. These important platforms must be activated and the solutions to these problems must be sought. These delicate developments in foreign policy should not, certainly not be made a domestic policy material, should not be used as a selection material. This process should not be made into a cause for polarization, such as many other issues. We will perform Friday prayer in Damascus. A lesson must be learned from this when Syria is in the middle where the eunuch brings Syria. We can't be heroes who think the end of the matter. We are members of a tradition that believes that this issue will not be resolved, because the mind is to think the end of a job. For this reason, it is clear that no steps made by the dreams of being a hero bring peace to this geography.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0045par0418	Mr. Blackduman, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0044par0419	As a result of all this, the plague of wrongs in Libya will be on the shoulders of the current government. We certainly don't intend to be partners in this plague. I'd like to express on behalf of the Party of Saadet that we did not accept the presidential declaration on the deployment of troops to Libya.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0046par0421	Good for you! They're behind him, the Saadet Party, they're in opposition, and now they're clapping. Bravo!
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0044par0422	And on this occasion, I salute you all with the spirit of March 1st.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0046par0424	Way to go! You did the right thing!
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0047par0425	Thank you. Now it's time for the Democratic Party's President and Afyonkarahisar MP Gültekin Uysal.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0048par0427	You'll refuse anyway, so relax.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0047par0428	Guys, I didn't promise.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0049par0429	Way to go!
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0047par0430	Dear love, look, I didn't promise you anything. The Civil Code says he can't speak without a word.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0049par0431	Mr. President, there are rituals, sir, words are an art, please, so... we have a fact, sir. We applaud the Party of Saadet, the opposition, CHP, GOOD PARTY, HDP; congratulations. They didn't surprise us either.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0047par0432	Please talk outside. Here you go, Mr. Softy.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0050par0434	My dear President, the most valued lawmakers, my dear nation watching us at the beginning of their television, first of all, I salute you on the first days of the year when we wish this new year to be a blessing. As a result of the mistakes in our long-standing foreign political preferences, we have the Libyan thesis ahead of us, and we're negotiating it. Turkey is now neighboring and has to pay the price for two countries that have consumed themselves, destroyed their own resources, and fought within, as we have faced with the attempt to put a straight jacket on the Middle East, North Africa. Today we're doing evaluations on a very complex international crisis, as far as multi-actor, very unknown, local dynamics. I want to make assessments both in general and in private, along with the policies of the AKP's government, which are very valuable lawmakers, which we can call the lock of the Eastern Mediterranean, which includes the interest and influence of Libya, which is now within our area of interest and influence. There is a word for being capable of making threats. Turkey, unfortunately, has been forced to pay the price of the adversaries, due to a recession at the point of vehicle harmony, for which it has claimed throughout the EC PARTI rule. As a result of the political action, the entire region was forced to choose a death between death and death. On the one hand, Israel, the United Arab Emirates, the United Arab Emirates, Egypt, Libya, Greece and the Greek part were forced to carry out a policy between Russia and Iran. Unfortunately, today, we paid as much in Syria as Russia has allowed us to make room for ourselves because we did not sit at the Middle East table, and at the cost of making the wrong choices of power martyred with the Battle of the Firat Shield, Afrin, the Fountain of Peace, and we strive to make room for ourselves at that table. Today, the Libyan issue is no different. At this point, we make these assessments of hydrocarbons east of the Mediterranean, in a climate in which the unique economic zones, the naval jurisdictions, and more than that, the balance of blessing-responsibility cannot be maintained in this framework. As individuals, people make mistakes, but governments don't have the luxury of making mistakes. Today, the Turkish nation pays the cost of learning in the country. We don't have three hundred years to live so we can tolerate you learning through trial and error. (CHP and GOOD PARTY) See, at a time like this, trust me, don't worry about the rest. We make these assessments in a very low-profile understanding that the Vice President is imprisoned in his words. Today, even though such a national interest is on the agenda, we have concerns about sending troops to Libya even when our interests are at stake in the Eastern Mediterranean. Why has the national sense of interest become this way in this country? We ask ourselves whether we want to or not. Today's ruling authorities do not feel obligated to tell anyone about the matter because of their actions and their ability to say no to the public, to those who say no to the opposition, and to those who say no to them. On such an important issue, the government's level of representation on the floor of such a negotiation also reveals their value to the Grand National Assembly. There have been actual statements made today, and it is clear that the ships are on their way -- our impressions and information.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0051par0440	Mr. Easy, here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0050par0441	So, unlike anyone else, we don't say what we're doing in Libya, we're not in an analytical assessment that's locked up in the Ihvan rhetoric, we find it very important to limit the naval jurisdictions agreement, but I declare that we do not want to be associated with the public security deficit of the state of Turkey at this point where the individual vulnerabilities of our country are not open in the negotiating text -- with open-pointed targets -- given the authority to appoint the President, the amount, the amount, and the time. Hopefully... here, the government has the power to ask for authority over this debate. In the understanding that our country's national interests are protected, that the defimazarrat is the son of the subpoena, I wish that there would not be a straitlock in this region with the Turkish Armed Forces, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0051par0443	Thank you. It is now time for the leader of the Grand Unity Party and Ankara MP Mustafa Destici. Here you go, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0052par0447	Mr. President, dear MPs, first of all, I salute you with love. I pray that the new year will be a blessing for you, for your families, and for our country. There's a greeting on me, and I'll pass it on to your sentence: at the end of the week, as part of our schedules, we were in Şanlıurfa, Mardin and Diyarbakır. Among our visits in Diyarbakır are the mothers and families of the children who have been kidnapped or taken to the PKK by the hand of HDP or other means, who have been called the Mothers of Diyarbakir, and are waiting for you. And they deserve applause, yes, and they deserve applause from our Parliament. It's not a matter of power-to-responsibility. They're fighting a really brave and brave fight. Dear lawmakers, what happened in Libya has already exceeded the size of a civil war. What is happening here has many different characteristics, as well as its reasons and its origins are similar to Syria. In Libya, the wars of power of attorney are being fought, as in Syria. Here, those who fight against the legitimate government follow the interests of the international power centers that arm themselves. In addition, the situation of Libyan oil and gas reserves differs according to Syria. The Government of the National Covenant in Libya is able to assess its own resources, and the presence of Turkey as a strategic partner in Libya has disturbed those who calculated Libyan people in Libya; that's the gist of it. Turkey has to make such moves to end the appearance of an energy-dependent country for humanitarian reasons as well. How will we maintain our rights in the Mediterranean today, our opportunities and advantages from cooperation and understanding with the legitimate government in Libya? Of course, we will protect every state as it protects its rights. Why do the imperialist countries today come to our geography from thousands of miles away, and why do they threaten us and the environmental countries by using military and intelligence moves, even subcontractor organizations? To bring democracy here? We all know why they're here, and when everyone's in this geography with all their military assets, we turn our faces around and whistle, it's just gonna be to put our future at the mercy of others. However, it must not be forgotten that those who oppose Turkey's presence in Libya today are the ones who invaded and plundered Turkish and Islamic lands, our former state, Ottoman, in order to destroy the subterranean and subterranean resources of this geography. I also find it difficult to understand the mentality that we extend our hand to Libya, which is our land from 1550, to the conquest of the Libyan Republic to 1911, to protect our military, political and economic cooperation, and to protect our rights born of it. Dear lawmakers are trying to surround Turkey with the policy of neutralisation of global imperialism. Turkey is trying to be destroyed by international law and compressed into the Gulf of Antalya in the Mediterranean. Turkey is a powerful country that can disrupt all plans against you, but if you don't do what you need to do in every problem you've encountered, you can't get results, your rights and your rights won't do any good if you can't protect your rights. We have to see the heavy cost of not creating an alternative to the Greek-Israeli-Sysi alliance, which is established in the Eastern Mediterranean. So, strategically or geopolitically, after the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, Libya is the only country we can deploy. Dear MPs, the Turkish-Libia sea border agreement is a very important and valuable agreement. The legitimate Libyan government is having a hard time dealing with its imperialist puppet Hafter forces. It is an important task and responsibility for Turkey to support the official government recognised by the United Nations in Libya, and it is also a historical responsibility. We, the Great Unity Party, consider it a necessity for the military support of our Libyan ally, the National Covenant Government.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0053par0455	Mr. Destici, please.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0052par0456	In this regard, all parties in Turkey must be clear and united. Our country must be the only voice because it will be a decision that directly concerns Turkey's presence in the Mediterranean, at least 50 years. Dear lawmakers, on this occasion, we must also remember and cherish Muhammad Mursi (Muhammad Mussi). If Mursi had not been struck, and had today been Egypt, or Egypt, with that mentality, it would have been much different today, both from our point of view and from the people of the region. Today, Egypt explains why Egypt's government at the head of Egypt has made the best concessions to imperialism. In summation, Turkey secured its rights in the Mediterranean, with an agreement with the legitimate Libyan government known by the United Nations in Libya. We see and see Turkey's Libyan move as part of a whole that began with Operation Peace in Cyprus, then continued with the establishment of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, formed by Syrian and Mediterranean policies.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0054par0460	Please complete, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0052par0461	Hopefully, after these strategic moves, we will end their eagerness to wipe out Turkey from the Mediterranean. I repeat, this is a matter of state and we are on the side of our state, so we're going to say yes to the Libyan thesis. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) May God not destroy our heroic army and all our security forces. May God, the best and best of all who plot and scheme, destroy their plots and play, and preserve the unity of our Turkey, and grant us success, prosperity, and victory in every field.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0054par0464	Thank you. Now I make promises on behalf of the individuals. There's been a row change with our friends' understanding. First words, Ankara MP Emrullah Business... Here you go, Mr. Business.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0055par0470	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, first of all, I salute you and our fellow saints watching us on the screen. I pray that the year 2020 will be a blessing. They've just spoken to groups of our parties about sending troops to Libya, and other party representatives have spoken here. In fact, I want to briefly sum up what we're doing in Libya. I have been here for over five years as the special representative of both the Ankara MP and the Republic of Turkey. What has Turkey done here so far, what will it do next, I'd like to address them briefly. As of September 2014, the special diplomatic mission was committed, and on that day, our first mission, our first visit, was on the side of 1987 on September 28th. We met with Parliament Speaker Akile Salih and lawmakers on the side of England, where we sent the following messages: There is a political crisis in Libya. The solution to this crisis has to be through dialogue. 2) Turkey is against external interference. 3) Turkey favours Libyan territorial integrity, and we defend Libyan territorial integrity. 4) Turkey is equally distant from everyone in Libya. 5) Turkey is ready to negotiate if the parties want to." we said. They strongly rejected our proposal to meet at this time and said: "There is an initiative of the United Nations. We are subject to the initiative of the United Nations. We have stated that we support the initiative of the United Nations as the Republic of Turkey, and we have still supported the initiative of the United Nations from that day forward, and have stood behind the legitimate National Covenant government, which he had uncovered. We've always sent our messages to the countries concerned about this government's need for support in the international community. We are equal distances from everyone in Libya." we said. I'd like to talk to you about that. See, I visited Libya on several occasions; I visited the east side three times; I visited 1987, Beyda, and I visited the dome in 2017. In response, we invited the Speaker of the Parliament, who was in Siberia, who promised us that they would visit our country on January 14, 2016, but they didn't come, and they canceled on the last day. I called him on the phone, and I said, "Our invitation is valid, so come in whenever you want, and let's sit down here and discuss matters. The Prime Minister was especially attacking Turkey through the press." We asked them to stop these attacks. ▪ You need electricity. Libya needs other things. We said. We have expressed to them that we, Turkey, are prepared to give any kind of support in those matters. While we were doing so, some generals made threats that Turkey would shoot down its planes; on the other hand, politicians made their statement against Turkey, unfortunately, at the highest level, in harshest terms. But we do know that... I've talked to dozens, hundreds of Libyans in Turkey, and we've met in committees. A delegation from the Libyan Civil Assembly visited Turkey, and Mr. President agreed, and there was a very productive meeting. Everyone in eastern Libya, west, south of Libya knows that Turkey is equal to everyone in Libya, Turkey has followed open-door policy; we have opened the door to everyone, shared our vaccines, our bread, our opinions. Congressmans, look, we said we're in favor of dialogue, and we supported the Libyan Political Agreement, which resulted in dialogue. First we attended the meeting in Rome, then we attended the meeting in Suheyrat. Precious Minister has just expressed that 17 countries supported that meeting, and all international organisations have supported it. Sir, they say here that the words of the United Nations... are expressed. Look, there's a big double standard in international policy. The countries who supported this agreement, unfortunately, did not take any steps to implement this agreement. If we were hypocrites like them? Do we have to double standardize like them? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As part of the Libyan Political Agreement, the National Covenant government has been recognised by the international community as the only and only legitimate government representing Libya, under UN Security Council Resolution 2259. Again, Decision 2259 calls for the removal of support and contact with parallel organisations who are not part of the agreement and who are claiming legitimacy. We have supported this agreement and this call from the United Nations, this decision, as much as we can. See, the Political Agreement in Libya has ended the bilateral structure before this agreement. They say: "Turkey supports Islamists, jihadists, and these." Well, I quote, before this agreement, the government you claimed was in Tripoli, but this agreement ended the existence of that government, and a single government appeared in Libya, which is the government of the National Covenant, the only government known to the international community. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Sir, you support the legitimate government in Libya, why don't you support it in Syria? Look, why did we oppose the Assad regime in Syria? We object because he killed hundreds of thousands of citizens and he's still killing them. As Turkey, we have urged the United Nations to take measures against attempts under the National Covenant Government, as we strongly supported the National Covenant Government from March 2016, when the National Covenant government began its mandate in Libya. We made a serious effort to implement the agreement we reached with the world in Morocco and Rome at the point of the establishment of democracy through a constitutional and election process, with the implementation of the Libyan Political Agreement, a transition under the leadership of the National Covenant government. [[İzmir MP Kemal Kilicdaroglu's General Assembly Hall gives a standing ovation from CHP's ranks during his presence]] Meanwhile, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates, which supported the Libyan Political Agreement, supported France and Russia by drilling the arms embargo for Hafter, an illegal actor. On the one hand, an illegal actor who committed terrorism and war crimes, the legitimate Government of the National Covenant, known by the international community according to the Libyan Political Agreement, we support this government. On April 4th, when the Secretary General of the United Nations was in Tripoli to hold talks ahead of a comprehensive conference, Hafter and his forces attempted a comprehensive attack, and as a result of this attack, we stated that we were on the side of the National Covenant government and continued our support. It was mentioned here in the Parliament. The Libyan Political Agreement revealed three actors. One was the Presidential Council and the Government of the National Covenant, and its President, Mr. Serrac, and the House of Representatives, which is located in 1987, as well as the Council of the High State of the National Congress. We've continued our work with these. There were 172 MPs in the Parliament in 1987, but after the April 4 attack, 72 of these 172 MPs met at Tripoli, where they formed an alternative parliament, where they elected their president. The remaining 100 MPs are not allowed to hold meetings in 1987. Some of them come and live in our country, and I'm giving it to you. We support the Berlin process. We expressed that we favour political solutions in Libya. We've always supported the processes leading up to the Libyan Political Agreement. Now the Berlin process begins. Five meetings were held along with the Berlin process. Our country has attended these five meetings, and at the very moment, it will now hold three meetings with Libyans and the Secretary General, Mr. Ghassan Salame -- economic issues, military matters and political issues. Military meetings have been planned, but so far we see that Hafter (Hafter) and his followers do not give names. This shows that all they want is a military solution. We as Turkey have expressed that we are against military solutions, that we are in favor of political solutions.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0056par0493	Mr. Business, please.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0055par0494	With the security and military co-operation agreement that we have made, we will give all we can as Turkey to reform the security sector in Libya. Turkey will send a force there. This power does not go with the intention of being a combatant force, of course. I want to express from the stand of this nation that Turkey's military presence there will be enough deterrents. The Turkish flag will surely be a deterrent for anyone there, and we will see that in the coming days, but if someone is violent and attacks the soldiers of the Republic of Turkey, they will surely receive the most powerful reward. Someone here mentioned a map of Libya. When you look at the Libyan map, you see that two thirds of the population live where you call it that small space, but it's really important to be principled here, it's important to stand for democracy, it's important to stand for freedom, it's important to stand for human rights. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We are on their side as Turkey.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0056par0497	Mr. Business, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0055par0498	Mr. President, give me one more minute.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0056par0499	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0055par0500	I also find it useful to emphasize that we are not there as an intervening force, we are not outside Libya, and I am stressing that. Libya's legitimate government has invited five countries, including Turkey; it has invited America, Italy, England and Algeria as countries with agreements. Turkey accepts this invitation. It's a matter of brotherly law. See, we have a brotherhood - three hundred and sixty-one years - from 1551 to 1912. On July 26, 1920, an article by Ataturk was published in the Kingdom of Milliye, where it says that the same imperial states are the enemies of both Turkish and Arab, Iraqi and Anatolia, Syria, as well as Syria. In this case, the life of Anatolia, Iraq, Syria, and its interests have been united in a very tight way. You know, Mustafa Kemal, as a merchant in 1911, resigned from his military post to go there and act in order to provoke the resistance necessary against the Italians. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Business, let's finish, please. I'm finishing, sir. Mr. President, with your support for today's resolution, you will make a great contribution to the goal of securing unity, unity and integrity in Libya, a complement of Turkey's decisions and steps in the Eastern Mediterranean with the right to look out for international law and national interests. You're going to support the National Covenant government's fight against illegal armed groups, terrorist organizations, and global terrorism that our state, such as DEAS, has taken legitimacy from international law and the United Nations. In Libya, you will back our actions by inspiring the patriotic spirit and history of our profession, particularly Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, Enver Paşa, Birdçuşa Assref, Jacob Cemil and Süleyman Military Bey. You will stand up to the unlawful initiatives of a small group that has brought our region under dictatorships or driven it into a crisis and conflict environment, even from slaughtering millions. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Our Veteran Assembly's historic decision today will undoubtedly take its rightful place on the pages of history tomorrow as we, our nation, and the world follow. As I end my words with these feelings and thoughts, I pay my respects to you precious MPs and to our great nation who are watching us at the beginning of their screens, and I pray that the messenger bring good things to our country.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0057par0512	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the person, Sakarya MP Engin Ozkoch. Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0058par0516	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, we're discussing an important thesis today, but I'll give you the number so far: there are 10 political party representatives in parliament as political party representatives. Seven of them said no to this document, and three of them said yes. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You've been running the country for about 18 years. You don't do that very well. You make serious mistakes, you say you've been deceived, and you've made those mistakes because you've been deceived, but that's not true. You're making these mistakes because that's what your interests on that day require -- not the interests of our country, but the interests of power -- but innocent people have been paying the price for it for 18 years. As the interests of power are paid for innocent people, we will build a corridor of peace in Syria. You set out and left our land. Counting Operation Solomon Shah, at the end of four operations, you gave up the corridor, where you were content with a pocket. All administrative structures in Kobani, which are within the distance of throwing stones from Turkey, are still in place. Eight of the 12 Turkish observatories established in Idlib have now been seriously devastated. At the nine points of observation Mehmetçik is surrounded by the Assad army. More painfully, the Russian military police have claimed responsibility for Mehmetchik's protection at the 9th observation point. Two more observation points are about to fall into the same position in Idlib. Is that why we have given you permission? We've given you permission to protect the safety of the Mehmetçik. Protect our borders. Eliminate terror. Your wrong and incompetent foreign policy has caused us to harbor 4 million Syrian immigrants in Turkey. What happened was to our children who were killed on Syrian soil and our mothers and fathers who were shot at at their homes. Your greatest achievement is your success in using immigrants as a threat to Europe. You're negotiating over people's lives again because you don't have any more power left. Now it's Libya. Turkey is trapped in the eastern Mediterranean. While you were trying to discredit Rauf Denktas, in the Turkish Republic of Cyprus, while you failed in the Turkish Cypriot foreign policy, in the Eastern Mediterranean, the Greek and Greek arm in arm and form the front. You left us alone in Turkey's rightful sovereignty case. Now that you have to, you see it as a last resort to sending troops to Libya, where there is a civil war, and you want to be a part of a civil war. For what? For Mehmet's life. For what? For hundreds of Muslims to slaughter each other, to be homeless, to be homeless. For what? For new immigrants to emigrate to our country. For what? To face the United States, Russia, Egypt, Europe, the United Arab Emirates and Saudis. Only one of us, without your diplomacy, who will give to your wrong foreign policy, has no life. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Turkey has no patience to remove millions of new immigrants. Turkey has no power to embark on a new adventure. There's only one problem with desperate imperialist forces in Libya, and that's oil. They set fire to the Middle East for oil. They have shed the blood of millions of Muslims, slaughtered children, raped women, and destroyed the land. Here is America, the head of this project, the co-chair of this project, Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0059par0524	Get out of here!
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0060par0525	Get out of here!
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0061par0526	Get out of here!
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0062par0527	When the United States bombed Libya and ordered the murder of Muslim leader Gaddafi (Muslim leader), you allowed the planes to leave Turkey without paying attention to the deaths of thousands of innocent Libyans. How come you're not blushing? How did Libya get out of here and support us in the Cyprus war?
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0061par0528	You're lying!
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0062par0529	Gaddafi was the head of Libya. You sent the planes that bombed Libyan children, Recep Tayyip Erdogan gave that order; you still speak shamelessly here. [[Applause from CHP rows]] It's not enough, now he's killing his brother in Libya, so you'll be a part of it? Are you still not satisfied with the Muslim blood? Can't you get away from being the empirical tongs? How much more will Mehmetchik pay for your wrong foreign policy, the diplomacy you can't carry out? We say, "The point is clear, we are alone in the eastern Mediterranean, and this loneliness needs a solution. Should the solution be through diplomacy or as a civil war side? What you put on the table today is that this country is on the side of the civil war. You've done this before, you've been on your side in Syria, you've lost, you've lost, you've lost, Turkey has lost, we have no diplomatic ties to two countries, we have no ambassadors. It is true that the Libyan People's Party supported Libyan and Moganser's Economic District Agreement. However, the way to protect this diplomatic gain is not to side with the civil war. This diplomatic gain must again be strengthened through diplomacy. This road isn't over yet. Is there a national government in Libya? I do. Does the United Nations know this government? Yes, he does. As our leader Kemal Kilicdaroglu has pointed out, contact the United Nations immediately. In order to end the civil war and stop the blood flowing across the country, make sure that the United Nations Peace Corps is sent to the region without delay. Turkey must contribute to the stability of the region, demonstrate its entire diplomatic effort. Let us side with Libyan territorial integrity and peace. You all want it from the heart. Then when you answer, say no. (Applause from CHP rows) Being on the side of civil war by heeding diplomatic proposals is not the only option for a country as powerful as Turkey, but shouldn't be. Let's not make our children a part of a civil war that we don't anticipate the outcome of our country, friends. We don't have a single child to lose in the Arab deserts. You've already said yourself that you've been wrong about a lot of things you've asserted so far, and you've been deceived. We can't stand any new delusions over children. Don't ruin our country's diplomatic tradition with false foreign policies. We were alone in our territory, trapped in the eastern Mediterranean.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0061par0533	It's not Arabia, it's Africa.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0063par0534	Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0062par0535	Thank you. We're running out of room at the diplomatic tables. Now that we're stuck, let's send troops to Libya. Are you sending troops to Libya because you are trapped in the eastern Mediterranean, or is it Es Serrac who said to you, "Come do my work, and I will open a place for you in the Mediterranean." He said, "Are you trying to send troops for him?"
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0064par0537	Pity! Pity!
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0062par0538	You don't have a degree, but you've got a lot of negotiating to do. Unfortunately, the scenario in which the side you support loses in Libya is widely known. You'll make Turkey more difficult on its international interests. If this were a national defense, then we wouldn't be thinking about it until the end of time, not our soldiers, not our citizens. As Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said, we would go all the way to the end.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0065par0541	Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0062par0542	Do you know the number of sons of Anatolia who have been scorched and destroyed in the deserts of Yemen in the name of the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk Nutuk? Have you read the lecture? Do you know Mustafa Kemal Ataturk has tears in his eyes at every mention of the Yemeni Turk? Almost all Yemeni songs have bad experiences with the sons of their mothers sent to Yemen; the mothers, the lovers, have sorrows and worries about their children. Don't make our mothers burn new Yemeni songs after a hundred years. Mehmet, don't destroy our son in the Libyan deserts. (PEOPLE APPLAUSE) Consider our proposal for peace corridor through the United Nations. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0066par0546	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0062par0547	To this error, we, the Republican People's Party, call it no. We certainly say no to this decision that Mehmet-chik will pay the price with his life. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0066par0550	Thank you. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0067par0554	Mr. President, thank you. In his speech with a tone of voice, we disagree in any way. The interests of power... say. No, it's not the interests of power, it's the interests of Turkey, the oppressed and the people who depend on international law; that's what we're talking about here. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Second: Everyone knows about the fight in the eastern Mediterranean, and the friends have spoken. We'll take care of the lines there, we'll vote accordingly. You have to see those lines. Third: Our duty is to defend the interests of the country, and that is our duty. Every step has an account for today's people and future generations. Today's thesis is a challenge against the will to bury Turkey on the shoreline of Alanya. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Finally, I say: Whatever matters are involved, the valuable speakers are constantly and firmly referring to Mr. Erdogan, whereever they look, they see Mr. Erdoğan, and that's enough for them. Yours truly.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0068par0563	Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0069par0565	The voice of my Davidic voice, which my master spoke kindly of, is not my voice, but the voice of the mothers and fathers that raise their cries for their children, and I declare it to him. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit01spe0068par0571	My fellow lawmakers, so the negotiations on the presidential thesis are complete. 3/1044) There is a motion for the open vote of the main presidential counter, which I will read and call the signatories. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 3/1044) We propose and propose that the vote of the main presidential counter vote be held in the form of an open vote. Istanbul MP Engin Altay? Here. Manisa MP Free Special? Here. Sakarya MP Engin Özkoch? Here. İstanbul MP Ahmet Ünal Avikçü? Here. Istanbul MP Emine Gülizar Emecan? Here. Denizli MP Hashim Teoman Sancar? Here. Antalya MP Aydın Özer? Here. Niğde MP Omar Fethi Gürer? Here. İstanbul MP Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi? Here. Libzon MP Ahmet Kaya? Here. Tekirdağ MP Inspired Özcan Aygun? Here. İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal? Here. Hatay MP Mehmet Güylümansur? Here. Aydın MP Süleyman Bulbül? Here. Gaziantep MP Irfan Kaplan? Here. Karabuk MP Hussein Avni Aksoy? Here. İzmir MP Mehmet Ali Çelebi? Here. İzmir MP Kamil Okyay Sindır? Here. Istanbul MP Turan Aydoğan? Here. Antalya MP Cetin Osman Budak? Here. Balıkesir MP Fikret Şahin? Here. Dear friends, I'm going to take a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. An open vote will be carried out by electronic device, according to the decision taken. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'm asking members who can't get into the system to ask the technical staff for help, and despite that help, members who can't get into the system, to deliver ballots to the presidency and not leave the General Assembly for a vote, and I'm calling for a vote. [[The electronic device started voting.]] Dear friends, the 3/1044 main presidential counteroffensive is the result of an open vote: I ask His Holiness to bless your proposal. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Dear friends, the Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I will have you read it and vote for it. The following proposals were proposed at a meeting of the Council of Advice 2/1/2020 on Thursday. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman Özlem Rich Engin Özkoç Hak Saruhan Oluç His group is acting president of the vice president of the vice president group. Erkan Akçay Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu His group is acting president of the vice president group. 1) Following the completion of the talks with the President's Office, number 3/1044, in the Extraordinary Union of the General Assembly of 2/1/202020 (3/1044), On January 2, 2020, the Commission's Committee of Human Rights Commission and the Board of Human Rights Commissioners shall continue its work until the meeting of the Commission's Committee on Compulsion, which is the first in 131 and the first in the section of the Commission's Committee of Human Rights report, and the meeting of the Commission on Human Rights shall be completed. 3) The period of talks for political party groups is ten minutes, five minutes on behalf of individuals in the meeting of the Commission for Human Rights Review Commission and the Commission for Human Rights Commissioners. 4) A three-day recess from Turkey's Grand National Assembly to begin its work on January 7, 2020, It's recommended. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0070par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision made, the agenda will begin to discuss "things involving law proposals and other tasks from the Commissions. In the first place of this chapter, we are starting talks with the Proposal Commission on the Report of the Public Control Agency for the year 2018, ranking 131, and with the Commission for Human Rights Review Members of the Commission, the Commission's Commission for Karma Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 131 rows. According to the 72nd Article of the Interior Charter, a pledge will be made to one member on behalf of political party groups and two members on behalf of individuals will be promised in a meeting of the Karma Commission Report on the Public Control Agency's Report in 2018. I will also give five-minute talks to representatives of the ungrouped political party. The Commission will be promised on its request, with which the meeting on the Karma Commission Report will be completed. According to the decision taken, ten minutes for the talks, for the Commission and for the political party groups, five minutes for the individuals. I'm reading the names of the members of lawmakers who were quoted on the report: On behalf of the groups: Mr. Fahrettin Yoshush, MP of the People's Democratic Party; Mr. Mehmet Rush Tiryaki, Batman MP; Mr. Mehmet Tayak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group; Mr. Mahmut Tanal on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; Mr. Ahmet Salih Dal, Kilis MP on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Representatives of the non-grouped political party: Abdulkadir Karaduman, Konya MP on behalf of the Saadet Party. On behalf of the individuals: Mr. Servet Üssal, Ankara MP. The first word is Mr. Fahrettin Yoshüstün on behalf of the Good PARTY Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0071par0018	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all on behalf of my personal and good party. It is the basic duty of law states to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals who form states. Public protection and security of citizens against public institutions is the most prominent feature of democracy. In constitutional systems, the protection and protection of the legal rights of the individual and the community, and the revision of these laws in accordance with their time, are the most important and fundamental features of democratic state systems that believe in the principle of rule of law. Humanity is growing, growing and multiplying. In Turkey and in many countries around the world, legal, administrative mechanisms remain inadequate and justice, sometimes, unfortunately, does not find its place. One of the main goals of law is to protect citizens against the state. Things in Turkey, unfortunately, operate in the opposite way, so the rule of law deals with protecting the state against citizens, so there is often an unhealthy relationship between management and citizens in Turkey. Because of this incompatibility, a system is needed to protect the citizen. So, here we have the most important feature of the Public Control Agency. As it is known, the Society of Public Control is an institution of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and is powered by the spirit of the Grand Assembly. He advocates for citizens, acts with the awareness of protecting the rights and freedoms of citizens in the face of mistakes made in legal and administrative areas. It is the most important feature of the organisation's philosophy that the Ombudsman's institution is completely independent of law and executive authority. Public supervision, in addition to other control mechanisms, is a secondary security mechanism for protecting individuals' rights. Applications to the Public Control Agency are simple, quick and cost-free. Besides, this institution is free of any influence. The Public Control Agency has now become a preferred control mechanism, not only in Turkey but also in the world, due to its approach to human rights. In addition to all of this, the applications to public supervision are related to irregularities in the functioning of the administration and the functioning of the judiciary and the exposed injustices. In the study of applications, the principles of fairness, equality are considered primarily in accordance with the principles and rules of law. In reviewing applications to the public audit, it is considered whether the approach and behavior of the administration are within the framework of the law, according to international agreements, laws, regulations, and the constitution of the country concerned. As a result of studies and decisions, he chooses to persuade and advise. The main reason for the existence of the Ombudsman's institution is to protect citizens from illegal, arbitrary practices of the government, which can make strong and unilateral decisions, to create a guarantee against possible restrictions and threats on the rights and freedoms of citizens. Given the basics of the ombudsman's institution, its primary general functions are to ensure administrative transparency, contribute to administrative judiciary, act in preventive, educational, and corrective functions. In short, we can call the Society of Public Control the guardian of the people, or the guardian of the citizens. We see that the Public Control Agency has been working more effectively and functionally, especially in recent years. It guides the public by its decisions, by listening to its problems and by practicing its law. He is trying to resolve problems between the people and the administration through friendly solutions. The Public Control Agency has been working carefully towards the aims of the judiciary to reduce its workload, to address citizens' problems more effectively, to promote rights culture, to improve the quality of administration's service, and to establish the rule of law. The institution's proportion of compliance with recommendations increased by 20 per cent in 2013 to 65 per cent in 2017, 70 per cent in 2018, and 75 per cent in 2019. Look, I'd like to give you an example of this: between 2012 and 2013, students of the Anadolu University School of Open School had filed various lawsuits asking for a refund of their earned rights. There were also hundreds of applications for the Public Control Agency. In 2013, the agency found the students right and reported the decision to advise the university. This decision was in accordance with the Constitution and legal rules, given the equality of opportunities and rights in education, but the administrators of the Anadolu University at that time did not recognise the decision, and hundreds of thousands of students were not granted the rights earned and were victimised. As we look at the point now, the students of the same university suffered different victims and sought their rights in 2018 by applying to the Public Control Agency; this time, the administration carried out the recommendation made by Public Control. So as time goes on, the institution seems to be more efficient. As it is known, no body, authority, authority or person can give orders or orders to the public inspectors regarding their duties, not to send them to the general, not to advise them or to preach them. In this regard, some institutions seem to be unaware of the decisions of our ombudsman organization, answering some or not. I'd like to give you an example: there was a disagreement between the president of the Football Federation and our ombudsman's organization. "We are not an institution for public good, we are not a public service. " As it is known, the institution's recommendations are not about decisions that will or will not be followed by the relevant administration. These are not suggestions that cannot be done or applied. However, we see that some university rectories, municipalities, NGOs, and some ministries have unfortunately failed to comply with the recommendations of the Public Control Agency. We can't possibly accept the joy of these institutions. In the democratic state of law, the relevant administration is responsible for implementing the decision of the state of Public Control, which is actually viable. The public audit agency's contribution to the workload of the judiciary is not to be debated by its friendly attempts and decisions to resolve a friendly solution. This institution has contributed to the good functioning of the administration, as it has contributed to the good functioning of good governance principles; it has contributed to the adoption of the citizens; it has contributed to the change in legislation, to the solution of problems involving large masses; it has not only solved the problem of citizens directly in individual applications, but has also made clear the legal situation of those in similar circumstances. It's an institution that spreads the culture of seeking rights and prevents tens of thousands of cases against the administration, which has been dealt with by citizens. Honourable MPs, however, have opened their doors to the children of the Public Control Agency. Childfriendly approaches continue to develop children's awareness of rights. It would be right to create more public opinion and to increase activities related to right-seeking cultural awareness in schools as well, and work to promote them. Because of their work, the Public Control Agency has been an instrument of direct democracy and has contributed to the strengthening of democracy. Among the goals of my Public Control Agency are the adoption and adoption of the principles of good governance by all public institutions and institutions. In order to reduce the workload in the administrative judiciary, it is imperative that the project be implemented to increase the effectiveness of the Public Control Agency. The faster and more effective conclusion of complaints and the spread of the right-seeking culture must be made. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I have another moment, Mr. President?
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0072par0036	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0071par0037	As a result, people are constantly looking for ways to achieve a better life, a respectable life, and legally better protective rights. In this regard, he continues to struggle. Law rules have a certain life as well as humans. It is inevitable that law and state systems will change over time with humans. Therefore, I believe it is necessary to move our Public Control Agency further. Our Public Control Agency has provided a very successful service so far. Therefore, on behalf of myself, all experts and employees, especially our chief of staff, I offer my regards to the immediate satisfaction of the legal arrangements requested by our distinguished Parliament for the more efficient work of our institution.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0072par0040	Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Taytak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Taytak.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0073par0043	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group regarding the Commission for Public Control of 2018 and the Commission for Human Rights Review Commissioners' Commission Report. I salute the Veteran Assembly and the great Turkish nation. Dear MPs, the Committee of the Will is an important commission that conducts its activities according to the Law on the Use of the Right of Proposal and the Turkish Assembly of the Grand National Assembly, which serves as a bridge between the institutions and ministries concerned with our citizens. The Public Control Agency examines, investigates, and recommends complaints based on human rights justice, based on law and justice. I'm going to try to share with our nation our proposals for human rights, human rights violations and solutions in these matters, which have been discussed in the report. Man is in a position above all other creations, honorable and superior because he has the qualities of mind, will, and thinking that are not in other creatures. Human rights aim to keep people equal, free and honorable. Everyone is equal to the law without differences such as gender, race, color, religion, age, wealth. Dear MPs, the first human rights declaration in the history of the world is the Veda Hutbesi of the Prophet. The Farewell Hutbe is a headshot of universal messages involving basic human rights for all humans. People's rights and responsibilities are advised there. Dear lawmakers, every person in the community has basic rights and freedoms. These are rights, right to live, right to health, right to education, freedom of faith, right to worship, right to privacy and economic rights. Rights are people's rights to do anything. Freedom is that people do what they wish to do to no living thing, no harm to man. Basic rights and freedoms begin with birth; they end with death; they are universal, untouchable, non-transmittable; they are whole, unrestricted. Each state must secure human rights with its laws. Dear lawmakers, a man has no man or woman, and women must live their lives equally with men. Before and after the Turks accepted Islam, they always gave the woman the proper value. Women in Europe, Africa and Arabia were sold as slaves, while Turkish women were always free and free. In fact, while the world is unaware of women's rights, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk gave the Turkish woman the right to vote in 1930, in 1934. In the Turkish community, the woman has spoken in the family, joined state administration in political and economic relations, wielded a sword, rode horses, and fought for her country. Halide is Corporal, Nezahat Corporal, Sherife Bhai, Black Fatma of Erzurum, Sergeant of Halima, and one of our heroines who put their lives on the line in the Main Liberation War of Müslüm. In the Turks, the family is based on women. As Ziya Gökalp put it, none of the former races have given women as much credit and respect as the Turks have. Violence against women is a violation of human rights. Unfortunately, there is no day in Turkey when news of violence against women does not appear in the media. The violence is tied to our feet like a heavy stone, wrapped in our bodies like a stroke, which unfortunately draws us all towards a terrible vortex. Despite legal regulations, warnings, and punishments, violence against women continues to increase. Violent punishments for women must be restructured. The number of women killed in our country in the past 2019 is 474. The people who committed the murders were 95% spouses, fiancés, or friends. All of our women who were killed had a separate story: they were all lives, mothers, children, brothers, and dreams, but they were brutally murdered. The murder of our young daughters, our brothers and sisters, torn from life in the prime of their lives, has made us all very upset. I ask all the oppressed who have died in the hands of the oppressors and who have been sacrificed to these murders, mercy from God, and patience for their families. The woman who disturbs society's conscience should not be considered good by the courts to wear a tie, wear a suit, address the judge as "sir" and be present on display in the case of children's murders. This leads to disturbing decisions on the public conscience. Good behavior must be applied to prisoners of fate who are involved in an unintentioned incident. On December 18, 2019, we find that our Ministry of Justice issued a decree on preventing violence against women, and on January 1, 2020, our Ministry of Interior's Anti-violence Division was important. I hope it will be preventive and deterrent. Dear lawmakers, another bleeding wound in our country is child abuse and child murder. Unfortunately, in our country, child abuse and murder are increasing day by day. In my last speech, I said that it was a bad example of killings like this, to be placed on television or on social media for hours or days, to be placed in images of violence and violence that disturb the community. So, I'm not going to count names, not to normalize things. In many cities, our children and women have been abused and slaughtered. Child abuse is a severe violation of child rights. Our children are abused at home, at school, on the street, in the park, everywhere. For these reasons, the Turkish society is corrupt, and we can't even smile at the children we see on the street, let alone caress their hair. A situation that does not suit the Turkish family and community structure or any human beings is driving people away from each other, destroying the sense of trust in our society. In any case, abusers should not take advantage of a reduced sentence and be punished under the most severe conditions in order to prevent the bleeding of our society's child abuse. I think the measures for the matter should be increased and the family education programmes should be created. Dear MPs, as we all know, in our country, we have daughters who were married at a very young age. These marriages are irrational, outdated. Marriages at a very young age should be considered a human rights violation and a public health problem, and the solution should be treated as a holistic one. My dear Regents, respect for the living comes at the very top of our human missions. The religion of Islam commands that all living things on earth be treated with justice and justice, and that animals be shown mercy and compassion. In the campaign of Uhud, our Prophet, when a cat came out nursing her young in front of the army, he put a guard on the cat's head so that it would not be crushed, and led his army around that cat. And when he got back from the campaign, he asked the guard for the cat, and he owned it. We should all take this exemplary course of action and approach animals with compassion and compassion. Recently, street animals have been brutally slaughtered. Street animals are poisoned, dogs are tied to cars, birds are dragged, birds are strangled, and people are fighting animals for their own pleasure, screaming for their own, but it's a pity they can't hear. What happened to the Turkish nation, who was conscious of loving the Creator, and why do we live like this? In the Ottoman era, how did the descendants of the economist who built these architectural structures, built birdhouses, sparrow palaces, and built foundations in the Seljucian State for the treatment of sick immigrant birds, watering the streets so that they could drink water for their stray animals? What kind of person has a conscience that's capable of tying a dog to the back of a car and dragging it in? What kind of justice could set this person free for $6,477?
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0074par0060	Complete your words, Mr. Taytak. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0073par0062	Prison is a place for a person who has twisted thoughts like animal torture and violence in his mind. What does a person who can do that to any living thing do to a person, to a child? These, as our wise Turkish leader, State Gardener, expressed by our leader, are the wicked, the corrupt faces of mankind, the shameful deeds of shame. Let it not be forgotten that those without mercy cannot be shown mercy. Dear lawmakers, education is the basic tuition of a nation. The right to education is covered by human rights. I'd like to talk about a recommendation made by the Public Control Agency in this report: ALES exam has been cancelled by a young person who checks the question manual before the appointed time. The institution has recommended that our young man's test be considered valid. In addition, the efforts of our young ones who are a minute late for exams for traffic and other reasons must not be wasted, a cure must be found.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0074par0065	Go ahead, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0073par0067	Such events will be governed by direct intermediary, with the provisions of the consumer law, which is part of the second judicial reform package prepared by our Ministry of Justice, and will be cut off, hopefully, for our country's sake. We believe that this arrangement will be positive for consumers. Honourable MPs, I have fed and clothed the naked nation, and made the poor nation rich. The statements are in Orhun Abides. Wherever he went, he took justice, hope, and peace, and lit up ancient and cultural geography on three continents. The nationalist Movement Party, which absorbs this understanding, is based on the understanding of Turkish nationalism, which speaks to the Turkish nation from a national, spiritual, and human perspective, aimed at a development of love, justice, peace and security.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0074par0070	Finish your words, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0073par0072	I'm completing it, Mr. President. The National Movement Party stands in justice, democracy, security, brotherhood and morality. Our wise Turkish leader, our President, Mr. State Gardener, as expressed by our leader, has a duty to love and respect. Let violence cease, let love speak, let us embrace instead of strife, let us make peace instead of resentment; let us not forget that we are a nation together. I salute the Veteran Assembly and the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0075par0076	Mehmet Rüşt Tiryaki, Batman MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Tiryaki.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0076par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm going to try to recap our views on the People's Control Agency report on my group's behalf. First of all, I salute you all. I'd like to say a few things in detail on the public audit agency's report, but before that, I'd like to share a few things about our country's human rights, democracy report card. Now, our government says that we've made some progress in the Human Development Index. It's true, we've made some progress, but we're almost at the end of everything else. I'll give you a few examples: We're down 10 digits in the 2018 Democracy Index Report, and we're down 110. In the World Press Freedom Index, we became the 157th in 180 countries. We were the 109th of the 126 nations in the Rule of the Law Index. In 2018, we had four more rows in the Corruption Perception Index, and we were 78. In the Social Justice Index, we became 40 percent among 41 countries. We were number 104 in the Justice Independence Index of 141 countries. Who did it? For example, the World Economic Forum built a German Bertelsmann Foundation. Who else did it? It was Journalists Without Borders. It's all been reported by whom. The question is, these are the accepted indexes, the ones that the whole world respects and finds acceptable. We are number 104, among 141 countries in the Independence of the Judiciary. We get 37 out of 100 points for internet freedom, and we're being evaluated online in the category of non-free countries. With what countries? We are in the same category as Bahrain, United Arab Emirates, Egypt, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Uzbekistan, Sudan, Syria, Iran, China. The number of closed media outlets is 170, and the government says it controls 95 per cent of media-release organs, the International Press Institute. We're still at the end of the Women's, Peace and Safety Index. So, democracy, freedom of the press, rule of law, independence of justice, freedom of the internet, the perception of corruption, social justice, retirement, women, peace and security, why are we almost at the end? Of course, the fact that human rights have been put underfoot and that there is not enough respect for basic rights and freedoms. The citizen does not believe that the consequences of his injustice can be removed when he actually resorts to judicial bodies. The citizen does not believe that he will be punished for his injustice when he appeals to the judicial bodies. I'm going to give you a couple of examples. One of them, as I said earlier, was that the JITEM case was closed a week or two ago, and all those responsible for the deaths of 18 people were acquitted, and this was a file launched on detailed confessions by a special op police officer. This file was not the first state-owned acquittal in the murders committed by government officials. We've seen a lot of acquittals lately. The AK PARTY government continues its criminal policy. The courts decide on an acquittal in part and a statute of limitations in part. I'll tell you a few. So was the case of Kızıltepe JİTEM, the court's decision on the death of 38 villagers in the villages of Beşkonar and Cokoğeli, Şırnak. 11 villagers were killed in Kulp district of Diyarbakır province in 1993, the case was again suspended on the dusty shelves of the courthouse, he went to court, went to this court, and was eventually ordered to reduce the acquittal and the statute of limitations. In 1993, 21 people were taken into custody and were never heard from again. I'd like to say a few interesting things about these files. All of these investigations were launched after 2009. In fact, the investigations were closed, but the indictments were filed during your administration, but as a result of these cases, all public officials were cleared one by one. In Hakkari Yüksekova, villager Nezir Tekçi was taken into custody, killed, but an indictment was carried out in 2011, the case was transferred to Eskişehir, which was acquitted in 2015. In 1993, six people who were detained after the operation were detained were never heard again, an investigation was launched in 2013, and as a result of this investigation was acquitted for lack of evidence. Likewise, in the Redwood, as in Mush Vartinis, all of these files were closed. Like this, there are more files I can't count. Saturday (December 28th) was the 8th anniversary of the Roboski massacre. In this case, the investigation launched by the General Prosecutor's Office has also been ruled untraceable. Look, I'm going to tell you something very important. Now, since there were a number of cases where the perpetrators were acquitted or decided to fall, but the planes that took off in Roboski were clear, the pilots who were flying this plane, the people who gave them the coordinates were obvious, the people who provided them the coordinates, all the talks with that police station were clear that night, but what did the prosecution decide in the file where everything was open? He's decided not to follow. What did he say? ▪ It's an inevitable mistake. The soldiers there did as they were commanded. He said. As the dead Kurd, bombing by plane is considered an inevitable error.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0077par0088	Not at all! Not at all!
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0076par0089	But were the pilots of the planes that bombed the Turkish Parliament called the inevitable error? But the pilots of the plane that bombed Special Operations Command also carried out the order. Was it called the inevitable error? The pilots who used the plane that bombed the Ankara Police Department carried out the order. Inevitable error. Has it been called? He didn't try.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0077par0090	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0076par0091	Here, there are two sides to justice. This is the sad state of Turkey's judgment. Why am I saying this when I'm being interviewed for a public inspection report? For what it's worth, the state of the judiciary in Turkey is pathetic. Democracy is under serious discussion in Turkey. Human rights violations are increasing day by day, the policy of punishment continues. Thus, there are other solutions all over the world. One of the institutions that people see as part of their freedom of rights is the Ombudsman's institution, the Society for Public Control. Why? The Constitution, one of its ways, is the Society for Public Controllership, and the Agency for Public Control can resolve applications on this matter. But can the Public Control Agency solve the problems I'm talking about? Of course he can't, I'm not saying anything about him solving it. But with regard to the state-of-the-art regime that has been made permanent, about the suspension of the right to the meeting and demonstration march with the State of Emergency, I think public supervision can do some work on how people can freely express their thoughts, but not until now, I hope so. Why am I saying these headlines? Because it's in the report, the Public Control Agency has conducted two studies. One of them conducted a study on the solution to the victims of February 28th, and the second conducted a study on Syrian immigrants. So even though the resen can't study, we know that there are some issues where public supervision does a series of studies. So he can do this kind of work in the headlines that I'm talking about. Yeah, I'm gonna make a few suggestions about that. First of all, I want him to do a study on this, and I want him to do a study on the headlines I told him to do. Secondly, this may be a legal obstacle, but you must not have applied to the Ombudsman Agency to apply for public supervision.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0078par0097	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0076par0098	If you have applied to a judicial body, you cannot apply for public supervision. I think Turkey should eliminate this obstacle from the Grand National Assembly. Citizens in Belgium and France, like Turkey, can apply for judicial bodies as well as for public leadership, which is institutionally similar to Turkey. I think the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should also make an arrangement on this issue. In this way, citizens will have a choice about basic rights, decisions made by the judicial body or the decision made by the Public Controller. Now, theoretically, three conditions are said to exist in order to talk about an ombudsman's institution. One, it's called non-violence. Two: be independent. It is called. Third, he will fulfill his decisions, and his decisions will be binding. We don't have a third, it's not binding. The orator before me also said that, let alone be binding, institutions such as the Turkish Football Federation don't even share information and documents with the Public Control Agency. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My last words, I'll finish, Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0079par0102	Complete, please.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0076par0103	Therefore, if such decisions are to be arranged for binding, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must also take responsibility and organise them. But I'd like to say something about neutrality and independence. So, please, let the Society of Public Control believe my sincerity in this matter. Now, let's assume that there are seven people in the administration of Public Control. 1 Chief Inspector, 5 inspectors, 1 Secretary General; these are the heads of the Foundation. Now, look, these seven people need to be neutral and independent so that everyone can go and apply for it freely. If the auditors are former lawmakers or lawmakers or spouses or candidates for MPs from the same party, then this Kuruma really doubts about the outside view, about neutrality and independence. I'm not saying that not every auditor, the chief inspector, is acting impartially, independently, I'm not saying that I have no such claim, that each of them is respectable in their own field. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One minute...
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0080par0107	Finish your words.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0076par0108	But in terms of the agency's perception, I think they're problematic. If he's going to supervise the administration, if he's going to ask him to abide by basic rights and freedoms, if he's going to ask him to abide by human rights, then I'm saying that the administration should really be independent of the administration. I have a few things to say about this application report, but I don't have much time left. Let me just say two things: I think it's very useful to have a mixed subcommittee, especially in May 14, 2019 and October 16, 2019. All sides have arrived, they've listened directly, and I think it will contribute to the solution to the problem. I'm saying it would be helpful for the karma subcommittee to work this way. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0081par0112	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group...
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0082par0113	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0081par0114	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0082par0117	Mr. President, thank you. In his speech, Mr. Tiryaki referred to the dramatic, tragic event that happened in the village known as Şırnak Uludere Roboski or, known as Midssu, as we all grieve in the whole nation. When the dead were Kurds, it was of no value. He made an assessment that we certainly disagreed in the form of Turkey, that we did not agree with the facts of Turkey. That's not true. It is the duty of the state of law to follow him, whether he is Kurd or Turk, who loses his life in a dramatic way, which is a conflict with the law, and that's how it works. You don't look at people's ethnic identity, their origins. Such an approach with the rule of law is not right. This language is not a proper language, and the People's Democratic Party is essentially referring to the brotherhood of the peoples all the time -- based on expression. I don't think the brotherhood of the people will be provided with that kind of language. Now, there have been administrative, judicial investigations into the incident at Roboski. Oh, there may be objections that are not enough, that are not being done, but that's how they do things when they're Kurds. The way they complain is absolutely inappropriate, and we don't accept it at all. I've been promised to declare it. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0083par0121	Thank you. Mr. Tiryaki, come in.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0084par0124	Mr. President, thank you. Yes, we defend the brotherhood of the peoples. And I did it because we defended the brotherhood of rights. I gave you two concrete examples, Mr. President, two concrete examples. In both of them, there was a bombing of the pilots who had been ordered to do so. In one, the inevitable error was made, and again they were bombed with orders, and the other was not called an inevitable error. That's not my opinion. Let's all go to Roboski, if you want to go to Roboski -- some of these are security guards, village rangers, and I'll tell you, their family -- if they're not perceived that way, I'll take back all my words, but I assure you, the citizens there are a lack of punishment when they're Kurds, which means they're not being investigated when they're Kurdsts." they look at him. No matter what the intent, no matter how your government looks at it, as a result, that's how the citizen, the citizen, sees it. I'm not saying this to harm the brotherhood of the people, of course.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0083par0127	Thank you. İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0085par0134	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute and salute you all. In 2012, the Public Control Agency's law was finalised, it began in 2013, and after it began its activities, its main objective was to establish the rule of law, to contribute to the promotion of democratic standards, to prevent disenchantment, to develop respect for human rights, to rule out public responsibility. As a matter of fact, when we look at the official website of the Public Control Agency, it says: "The best of people is the one that helps people the most. " But let's say, specifically, from the year 2013, when the Ombudsman's Agency began its activities, to this day, when we looked at this painting, what was it before it was established in this country, what was it after it was established? Now, essentially, not only was the Public Control Agency established in the country, along with the Society for Public Control, but also the Committee for Protection of Personal Data and Human Rights and Equality in Turkey. All of these, all three institutions, are really aimed at making the law state prevail in the country, the domination of human rights in this country, the relocation of democracy, the effectiveness of participation and transparency. Now, as shown in the table, between 2011 and 2018, according to the 2011 Democracy Index of the magazine, Turkey ranked 88th among 167 countries. So, when we look at the painting here, after the ombudsman, did we go backwards or forwards? Here, in this conversation, it's actually the Public Control Agency that's responsible, not the Ombudsman. Although Turkey's Association for Equality, the Committee for Protection of Personal Data, the Public Control Agency, has tried to establish these principles, it has not been prevented by the bad course of power. So what needs to be done here is where power brings the country from. So there's a constant decline in human rights, freedom of the press, democracy, the state of law, the rule of law, with these institutions coming at the top of the law. In fact, we brought these institutions, but our promise to the European Union was that democracy would become better, that human rights would prevail, that rule of law would prevail. We're actually showing that we're showing these institutions, so this painting is clear and clear. In 2012, we were ranked 71st in 97 countries in the World Justice Project -- 2012 Law Index of the World Justice Project -- we were ranked 68th in the government's power limitation, we were ranked 55% in the fight against corruption, we're ranked 57th in transparency, we're ranked 76, we're ranked 70th in order and security, we're ranked 39 in regulatory implementation, we're ranked 44. By the year 2019, according to the Rule of Law Index, the World Justice Project 2019 of the Law Index of the World Justice Project -- Turkey is ranked in the 109th place among 126 countries; it went backwards.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0086par0139	He's escaped before?
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0085par0140	You can see it in the painting, if you look. According to the other criteria in the assessment, Turkey is ranked in the following rankings: 123°th in limiting the government's power, 57°th in the fight against corruption. The people who run the state are tasked with correcting the citizens of public institutions, but in many cases, we see that public opinion is being misled, not being informed correctly. We need clarity, transparency, and accuracy, but Turkey ranked 94th in transparency, 122 percent in basic rights, 96, and 96, in line with the implementation of legal and administrative regulations, 96, in line with citizens' access to justice. We're behind in freedom of the press. According to the 2012 World Press Freedom Index, published by the Organization of Journalists Without Borders, Turkey is ranked as the 148th in press freedom. According to the 2019 World Press Freedom Index, published by the Organization of Journalists Without Borders, Turkey is ranked 157/th in press freedom; it is ranked 124/th in gender equality in 2012, while we were ranked 130/th in 2018, so there is a continuous way back. So, Mr. Obudsman, Mr. Honor Malkoc and other members of the Public Control Agency, are they sleeping or sleeping or what? Actually, we thank them, they work. He's really got a lot of work to do all over Turkey. But what happened? One, they're underfunded; two, the staff is understaffed; three, the equipment is inadequate. They have the authority to open branches all over Turkey, all over the provinces, but they can't, of course, because of this budget. So the institution's desire to work here is not enough. I've just said one of the reasons: another incident, again, does not apply to advice decisions; administrations, bureaucracy, who are you? He looks down on the Ombudsman Foundation. The Ombudsman's office can't keep up with the administration; second, they can't afford it. Those who ignore the decisions of the State's Watch should be sanctioned, not sanctioned. The decisions of the Public Control Agency must be enjoined, the Kuruma resen must be allowed to move. We've also offered the law on this, and I think we should bring it to the General Assembly. Another problem is, if we say good governance, if we want good governance to be established, then the decision of the Society of Public Control should be carried out in an absolute way. So the Public Control Agency should be able to face the presidency as the public's attorney for the settlement of the existing state of law and the implementation of freedoms in the country. How can he take it? In the establishment of justice in our country, in the rule of human rights, in transparency, in the fight against corruption, in control, in accountability, in the rule of law, friends. If he can't find the courage, if he can't find it in himself, then there's no chance that the Public Control Agency will succeed, dear friends. Now, in that sense, you're going to say, well, these criticisms... that the Society of Public Control had very good, very brave decisions to actually implement. Remember, there was a monument in this street of Ascension. I applied as a violation of human rights. The Public Control Agency made that decision regarding the surrounding of that Memorial of Human Rights. It was a very positive decision. The Home Office had to obey him immediately. There's a sentence in the First Amendment of the Public Control Agency Act, that it will adhere to human rights in both Articles 1 and Article 5 of the purpose, but when we look at the oath in Article 13, there is no sentence in the oath that it will adhere to human rights. And at the same time, the text of the oath is so incomplete that the state of the Republic of Turkey, its independence, its unbreakable integrity, its rule of law, its rights... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I apologize.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0087par0149	Complete, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0085par0151	Those who are not under oath here are not under oath the existence and independence of the state of the Republic of Turkey; they are not under oath the undivided integrity of the state and the nation; the constitution, the rule of law, democracy, Ataturk principle and its teachings, secular Republic principle, national solidarity, human rights, fundamental freedoms. Well, it was in the 2007 draft, so why did you take it out? So that means that power has no sensitivity to human rights. If he had any sense of human rights, at least he would have to be judged for his sensitivity to human rights. Now, I'd like to sort out our suggestions here: 1) Regarding the extradition cases in business courts, regarding the extradition of those decisions, I think the Ombudsman of public institutions should be authorized. 2) The text of the oath should be placed on the basis of human rights.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0088par0157	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0085par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. 3) The Ombudsman's organization must be given very deterrent powers regarding disciplinary investigation and prosecution. 4) As in Spain, the Constitutional Court should be able to sue the Constitutional Court. 5) The ombudsman's office should also be able to make recommendations on legislation. 6) The ombudsman must also not be a constant complainant. Austria makes decisions in Austria, for example, about 60 percent of advice. At the same time, in the Austrian province of Tirol, there were four tours in that area, and there were about 30 counselling boards. At the same time, the Public Control Agency must be authorized to include all institutions of the state, municipalities and courts, because there are such examples in the world. So if we want to dominate the state of law, the rule of law... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing it, Mr. President. I'll wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0089par0166	We're not saving energy and time today. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0085par0168	At the same time, the existing legislation does not have jurisdiction over military areas. The President has been processed, but I think the military area should be authorized. Can you go to the Public Control Agency against the President's procedures? It can go, but can it process? He can't do it. As Mahmoud Tanal, I complained, I said that the President must be neutral according to his oath. He's the head of state in the elections, President. It's against the law. They rejected my request, sent me to the Supreme Election, rejected the Supreme Election. He's in the Supreme Court now. I mean, I'd expect him to be brave there because, as president, there's a really, really law-fed ombudsman on that, but he couldn't evaluate it, I don't know. The Public Control Agency must be given the authority to propose law to Parliament. Is there any in the world? There's an example. During his investigation and investigation, the Public Control Agency should be able to file a lawsuit and complain to the state's attorney. A very important suggestion...
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0090par0175	This is the most important part. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0085par0177	I'm finishing. Thank you for your patience. I think there should be a 24-hour 24-hour, 24/7, full-time guard at the Public Control Agency. He's on duty right now, but I think he needs it 24/7. There must also be a private telephone line for the deaf. That's not in the Public Control Agency. For example, where do you have it? Spain, for example, has this issue. At the same time, the ombudsman should be able to travel to news and unaware detention sites, prisons, and cell homes. In order to apply to the Public Control Agency, the benefit requirement must also be lifted. I thank you very much for your patience, so as the Republican People's Party, we have not only said our criticisms, but also our constructive, guiding ideas. The last sentence is, yes, you've made a special report; I'm celebrating. We're waiting for this special report to become public about other areas because the law has given us the authority to do so, and I urge you to exercise it. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0091par0184	Yes, thank you. On behalf of the groups, the last speaker is Mr Ahmet Salih Dal, a member of the Church on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Mr. Salih, you have five minutes on your behalf, 15 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0092par0189	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my Justice and Development Party Group regarding the 2018 State Department Report in which you have been held, and I salute your delegation. In the growing and developing world every day, technological developments, especially in social, cultural, economic and many areas of our lives, are too important for countries to ignore the constant variable and dynamic structures of societies. In this variable and dynamic structure, countries are obliged to ensure that their own communities live together, secure their rights and freedoms, adapt to international universal human rights, eliminate differences between classes; religion, language, race, and sects are obliged to ensure that everyone is equal before justice. The EC PARTI argued that the legal state of the state should be the basis of its understanding of law, rather than of being the legal state of Turkey, and that a new constitution in this principle should be adopted in accordance with universal law. In this scope, our party, who sees the restrictive influence of the judiciary on the administration as an important problem for the country's administration, signed a critical new constitutional amendment with a referendum on September 12, 2010. The most important criteria for government-social relations to work on the basis of the law is to allow justice to remain unexcusable. A judicial system that works correctly, responds quickly and fairly to disagreements, is the right of every citizen. Given the stronger democracy, human rights and justice demands that our nation and our country need, a judicial system that our people and our country deserve, a well-functioning justice system is our most basic desire. As a manifestation of our country's efforts to democratize, right-seeking pathways have been diversified and institutional structures that citizens can easily access. There is no doubt that Law 6328 of 14/6/2012 serves our citizens as an effective right-seeking mechanism since its establishment. The public auditory institution is the best of all people. With its faith, let the state live. It has taken its principle to guide itself; it works on the basis of law, justice based on human rights, and justice. The ombudsman, who is part of the intermediary mission, also plays a complementary role in the shortcomings of other control procedures. I would like to point out some of the features of complaint mechanisms and complaints reviews created by the institution: The management's actions and attitudes and behavior may apply to the establishment for real and legal persons whose rights and freedoms or interests have been violated. I'd like to point out here that the application issue is not only limited to the operations and actions of the administration, but also possible for any administrative attitude or behavior to be a subject of complaint. Children's rights, human rights, women's rights and a violation of the interests of the general public are not required. There are no additional difficult conditions for applying for an institution. In this framework, among all individuals, companies, NGOs, associations, foundations, unions and so on have the right to apply. Also, citizens of the other country are able to deliver their complaints, regardless of the nature and reciprocity requirements. No charge is paid to apply for the institution. Dear friends, the applications of our citizens who are suffering from hardship, victims, whatever they may be in the matter of the institutional administration, are quickly and primarily being examined by trying friendly solutions, identifying areas of rights violations and victims, and making recommendations. Because it is also a human rights institution, the institution is focused on all the issues that are sensitive to our country, including human rights, children, women, disability rights, information rights, education rights, violations of personal rights via the Internet, and works to address rights violations of this issue. The institution strives to contribute to the establishment's superiority of democracy and law, the quality of public services, and the spread of the right-seeking culture, both through friendly solutions and by its recommendations. A measure of KDK's success, of course, is the proportion of recommendations and administrations given by the institution. There's one thing I'd like to point out: the sum total of advice and advice decisions given in 2018 is more than the sum of decisions the institution has made since its establishment. It is good for us that in Turkey, 70 per cent of this proportion is a culture, given the 80 per cent and 90 per cent of compliance with decisions in countries where ombudsmanism has become a culture and is equipped with powerful powers. In this process, no doubt, the summoning of those responsible for particularly doubting the need for advice decisions to the Karma Subcommittee will play a serious role in the administration's stance towards the KDK in the following year. As a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we have the right pride that this has been detected in KDK reports. My fellow lawmakers, I'd like to talk a little bit about the Karma Subcommittee work I've been president of here. The National Ministry of Education, Ministry of Culture and Tourism, Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Hacettepe University, Chairmanship of Biga Mayorship, Kadiköy Mayorate and Association of Turkey's Football Association have been called upon to discuss the decision on whether the institution should be treated positively or not comply with its recommendations. In particular, it was a good development for us to have the mayor of Biga and the mayor of Kadiköy, here, in our commission's work, and to make decisions there, and to congratulate our mayors. In the final part of my speech, I would like to set up some identification and proposals so that the institution can work more effectively and efficiently, provide easier solutions to citizens' problems. As the KDK reports show, it would be appropriate to have legal sanctions on those responsible for governments who approach information and documents demands negatively or respond to delays. In Law 6328, the administrative application routes must be exhausted so that the institution can be applied for. Applying for administrative applications without consumption is sent to the relevant institution. This delays the final completion of the application. In this scope, the adjustment of the institution's law to limit the consumption of administrative application pathways is also considered to be a positive reflection of the development of administrative applications, which is old enough to be used to prosecute the institution, at least in the administrative judiciary. In the beginning of the negative approach of administrations to implement recommendations, public officials are afraid to take risks. In particular, concerns about the legal, criminal, financial, or administrative responsibility of concerned and the failure to interact with the bureaucratic structure and the culture of reconciliation prevent the implementation of decisions. We believe that it would be helpful for the Spanish and Portuguese ombudsmen to appeal to the constitutional court on the unconstitutionality of the law, that the Swedish ombudsman can participate in courts and negotiations, that executive institutions can be present in meetings and talks, and that, as well as in decent institutions around the world, authority to examine the residence will be extended with a legal arrangement that will be more effective under the administration's supervision.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0093par0201	Complete your words, Mr. Dal.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0092par0202	The more effective work of the institution, the lower workload of the judiciary, the solution of the citizens' problems, the increased quality of the administration's service in promoting the right-seeking culture, and the placement of the legal state will be significant. On this occasion, I would like to thank our Chief of State, the Chief of State and the public inspectors, all the expert colleagues in the community inspectorship, and all my fellow lawmakers in the Karma Commission who have been involved in the drafting of the report. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0093par0205	Thank you. Political party groups' demands have been met. Now, I'm going to make a promise to political party representatives who don't have the group. On behalf of the Party of Saadet, Mr. Abdulkadir Karaduman will speak for the MP of Konya. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0094par0210	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. Of course, the control mechanism should be in the most strategic state and untouchable. Of course, the use of our nation's hard work and resources for special interests and privileges is unacceptable. It must remain in mind that the right and authority to save on national resources are lent to the rulers by our citizens. Today, when our citizens are in unemployment and are in poverty, we need to behave more delicately than ever. Millions of our citizens are unemployed today. As of last night, a homeless citizen died of frostbite in Istanbul. It's a pity that while our people wait in line for hours to work for minimum wage in front of İSKUR, people employed by public enterprises are required to attend a political ruling party. In all his appointments, the power is either mine or the land's understanding. In addition, even when you hire staff to the university, only those who are uniquely and solely partial are among the most sought-after conditions. ▪ If you want to accomplish a job, you have to hand it over to your people. We are members of a tradition that says, "If it is not delivered to the people of work, the people of righteousness, sit down and wait for your doom." The most important feature of the legal state is to guarantee the right of all citizens to work in public institutions regardless of their political preference. We see that public control has been getting weaker, especially recently, and depending on that, the cost of pleasure has increased, and the waste has been normalized. The weakness of the control mechanism also causes waste to fill the state's levels with dishonest people. We also regret to see that appointment and promotions in public institutions are subject to a condition of loyalty to political power, and that success and hard work are left to the second plan. The most important task of public supervision is to eliminate obstacles between the state and the citizen. So services must be available for citizens who are not able to benefit from public bureaucracy and the resources provided by the state. We must put an end to the suffering of our citizens who wait for hours in various queues, preparing different petitions in dozens of different places. With various educational activities and information reports, our citizens must be included in the control mechanism. Dear lawmakers, the institution must operate as a control mechanism for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as it is on its official website, in terms of the establishment of the rule of law, the placement of good governance and responsibility for the people. Today, the rights violations, particularly with the KHK, are clearly not working according to the arbitrary decisions of the courts and statements that the ministers have declared that they have not received any references to the Constitution. Look, we're talking about the control mechanism. The main element of control should be transparency and accountability. As he came to power, the political power, which stated that the 90's would remove the darkness of darkness, first removed the dark veil, and then used it to cover his own practices. The most concrete but concrete example of this is in the ordinances of the law. Look, it's an unnecessary discharge of people who have been acquitted and stalked.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0095par0218	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0094par0219	On the other hand, even the rights to work in the private sector have been taken away. Again, when you apply to open a business, you don't give them a license. When he wants to go abroad, the removal of his passport is just a freak, an attempt to starve people. With all the legal and inhuman practices involved, it would be futile to even discuss the work of the Ombudsman's institution in an environment where the ministers did not refer to the Constitution. Today, in the last six and a half years, 75,715 applications have been submitted to the Public Control Agency, and what is the outcome of these applications? As a result, the victims must be quickly resolved and the state mechanism, which is blocked, must be reactivated. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0096par0224	On behalf of the individuals, the first and final statement is from Ankara MP Servet Üssal. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0097par0227	Dear President, my fellow lawmakers, dear citizens of my country who follow us from television, I salute you with my most sincere feelings, my love, and I congratulate you on your new year. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yes, the agenda -- my friends talked before me -- is the Society for Public Control, which is ombudsmanism. As a doctor who spent 30 years on trial, of course, it's an honor for me to talk about ombudsman, my dear president. Of course, ombudsmanism is a constitutional institution founded on 29/6/2012, neutral, independent, autonomous, expert, and reliable against the loss of rights, against any injury, against any negative circumstances, against any injustice, against any unlawfulness, against any unlawfulness. Yes, my friends, this is one of the largest guarantees of the institution citizens. My dear friends, the greatest enemy of the law is privilege. My dear Mahmut, I don't want to say again that he spoke before me about education, health, freedom, human rights, rights violations, violence, child abuse, and so forth. Thank you dear Mahmoud. I'll do the rest of my talking. Yes, integrity and lawlessness or advocacy increase appeals to the Ombudsman's office increasingly; new regulations must be made according to this increase. There are over 4 million cases between the citizen and the state today, my friends. Public Control should increase efficiency, be more functional at the right point of defense. Since 2012, there has been a growing number of applications every year, which have exceeded 76,000 since the establishment of the Public Control Agency. Of course, this increase indicates that over time the institution's recognition has increased. Yes, my dear friends, when we look at the issues of applications, we see that the most common subjects are the issues of appointment and promotion, the issues of social security. Education problems, health problems, justice and human rights problems are the most common problems. Of course, since I'm a physician, I'm going to be doing a little bit more about health violence. Ombudsmanship must be judged differently from other institutions. The Public Control Agency is primarily represented by citizens, not by the state, government or institutions; it defends the rights of the citizen and actually acts as a citizen's attorney. Yes, friends, those who are equal in knowledge and ability must have equal opportunities to achieve tasks and positions; that is the definition of merit. Yes, without a citizen's appeal to the judiciary -- my friends just told me -- the obligation to apply for public supervision must be corrected by the absolute and absolute Parliament, because the first place that a citizen can think of is justice, the Ombudsmanship is a new institution. Yes, it is vital and necessary for the protection of citizens' rights that the Ombudsman's institution be made more functional, more competent. One of the biggest problems is that the recommendations of the Public Control Agency are not implemented by relevant institutions. Friends, delusions are the truth that has come to pass. He says Goethe, but why is there no one who learns from delusions these days? That's why we're making mistakes. Of course, the fact that executives make mistakes brings us much more dramatic images. This structure is not being used as much as it should be for the benefit of citizens because the advice decisions are not being taken into consideration, because they are not being implemented, so justice is not fully implemented. It causes unrest and pessimism in our citizens. Justice is fundamentally social happiness, friends, and we can't ignore it. I'll tell the institutions that don't comply with the decisions the most. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear President, I apologize...
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0098par0243	Finish your words, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0097par0245	Yeah, I'm talking about institutions in the Ombudsmans that don't fit the decisions the most -- primarily listed as the Social Security Agency, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of National Education. The lack of justice, when the decisions are not obeyed, also undermines the reputation of the Public Control Agency. Of course, lack of dignity undermines the trust of the government. Here, I've brought it up over and over again. Guys, there's about 245 people working for the Ombudsman's Office; it's not enough. In order for the institution to become more efficient, more widespread, increasing the number according to the need should be brought to the attention and reduced to the minimum of victims by interfering with the loss of citizens' rights faster. We're all responsible for this. My dear friends, no snowflake in any falling avalanche holds itself responsible for what is happening. In that sense, all my fellow Regents, we all have responsibilities. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0099par0250	Mr. Ünsal, complete, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0097par0252	Friends, in all this trouble and adversity, we all have to put our hands under the table. My dear President and dear friends, this conversation has gone on a bit longer, and I'm going to be violent in health, so let me sum it up very briefly: There's been a serious increase in the AK PARTY administration in violence against health workers, my friends. I'm saying 12 doctors died, one of them died on December 30th. 12,000 cases of violence in health come in a year, folks. This is what happens to a doctor who doesn't prescribe the medication the patient wants. Friends, please don't hurt the healing hands; you all have doctors in your family. Friends, his emergency application has found 111 million, so it's more than our population. Lumpen is an aggressive, vindictive culture that causes violence to the educated.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0100par0258	Mr. Unisal, please complete your final sentences.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0097par0259	I'm finishing. In 2016, there were over 13,000 reports of violence in the White Code Application and nearly 2,000 convictions. But in the first seven months of 2019, friends, there were over 10,000 violent incidents, the number of convictions was 51. From here, I'm warning the Minister of Health and the Minister of Justice again, no matter what... the doctors are the most valuable people in Turkey, of course, but you're all valuable. A judge, a prosecutor, a cop, you snap a button, you go to jail right away, but for some reason, it's okay for a doctor. Everyone's leaving, violent with doctors, and the doctor's violence is common. So, in the interest of protecting all doctors, gather together the Minister of Justice, Internal Affairs and Health, the person who intervenes with the doctor, the person who attacks him over four years, see if there are any more incidents, anyone who attacks the doctor? Thank you. Again, I congratulate you all on your new year with my sincerest feelings. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0101par0264	The commission's demanding word. Mr. President, please.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0102par0266	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, because I am the President of the Commission for Karma, I want to thank all my friends of the Karma Commissioners who have submitted us the Annual Report for the Year of Public Control of the Agency 2018, to all of our fellow supervisors in the sight of Mr. Honor Malkoc. I would also like to thank all of our representatives of the political party, who met in agreement with the General Assembly during today's talks of the annual report, to our MPs speaking. I would also like to thank you, Mr. President, who is running our General Assembly today and our President, the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, who has set the agenda. Dear MPs, the right to petition is a constitutional right. There are 3 Commissions that conduct audit activities in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey where the right to petition is used, as you know: the Proposal Commission is our Commission for Human Rights Review and Equality of Women's Male Opportunity. Other than that, there are various institutions in the presidential government system, which are now established in the parliamentary regime, where the right to petition is being used. One of them is the Public Control Agency, the Presidential Communication Centre (CIMER), Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Agency, Information Information and Evaluation Board, our Association for Protection of Personal Data and the Public Officers Ethics Board. We care deeply about the work of these boards, the use of the citizen's right to petition, the development of the right-seeking culture. In that sense, our petitionary commission has decided to organise a workshop with the consequences of our Parliamentary President. I'd like to share this joy with you. Our goal in organizing this exercise is to ensure an effective cooperation among institutions to protect the rights and freedoms of our citizens, to make the rights-seeking culture more established, to ensure more efficient use of the constitutional right to petition. In that sense, I'd like to ask all of our fellow lawmakers to come together and make a good report and succeed in our study, and I'd like to invite all of our fellow lawmakers to participate in this exercise. Mr. President, finally, I salute the General Assembly with the wish of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to bring peace, peace, peace and prosperity for our country, our nation and all mankind, in the year 2020, where the 100th anniversary of the opening of our Veteran Assembly will be celebrated. Have a good evening.
tbmm-2020-01-02sit02spe0103par0272	Thank you. Dear lawmakers, the meeting on the Karma Commission Report on the Public Control Agency Report of 2018 has been completed. According to the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (January 14th 2020) to discuss audit issues and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
