tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, before we go on the agenda, I'd like to make a point. As you all know, this blessed Parliament is the main center of the Turkish nation's vision of civilization, the jugular vein of Turkey. But those who attack this civilization, those who attack the pursuit of freedom, those who rise up against the great dream of Turkey, which we built for mercy and justice, even today, it's the same. A Greek parliamentary speaker in the European Parliament is corruptly tearing up the Turkish flag, while a Turkish soldier is shot in the back of our territory to bring peace. The moon star flag is a symbol of the noble nation who has not bowed down or bowed down throughout history. They are the noble children of the ancients, who, in their compassion, took care of the oppressed, who put the tyrant in his place with Mehmet's bayonet. Whoever lays a hand on our banner and our child will surely be questioned by this nation. No focus of power on the world is more precious than a drop of Mehmetchik's blood in our eyes. As described in the verses of our flag poet Arif Nihat Asia, the moon star is the dove of peace, the eagle of war. Those who think that they will bring this nation to its knees by attacking in different directions have clearly forgotten what its two - headed Seljugian eagle is capable of with its wings around the world. Those who do not appreciate peace with this nation will sooner or later meet the steel claws of the Turk; our glorious history bears witness. I wish our martyrs mercy. We're with Mehmet. May God help our nation. [[AK PARTY, CHP, MHP and GOOD PARTY welcome]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I will now promise three members of parliament off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Kırıkkale MP Halil Ozturk, who wants to speak about the problems of martyrs and veterans and relatives. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0002par0021	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the issues of martyrs and veterans; I salute the General Assembly and our citizens who are watching us on the screen. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, at the beginning of my speech, we have martyred 1 civilian, 7 heroic soldiers yesterday by the fire of regime elements in Idlib. I wish our martyrs mercy, patience for their families, and immediate healing for the wounded. As our president-in-chief has pointed out, Turkey's friendship is precious and its hostility is a dangerous country. The Turkish nation is behind the oppressed who seek peace and peace. Anyone who plays a game in Idlib, writes a violent scenario, tries to kill people for their strategic goals, will find Turkey against its historical heritage. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to present to the attention of our delegation the problems of our martyrs and veterans, our President, our concerned ministries and our great Parliament. As it is known, under the Anti-Terror Act 3713, those who are injured and able to work from those who have taken the title "Gazi" are granted a second job by our government if they demand it. Over the past months, the appointment of several of our gasses, assigned to their second jobs and continuing their duties in accordance with their demands, has been cancelled as part of Article 30 of Law 5335, on the grounds that they have been wronged, and their salaries paid to them have been demanded backwards. On the other hand, each disability veteran is also a disabled citizen; according to Article 28 of Law 5510, they were taking advantage of the early retirement rights provided to disabled citizens by our government. However, the 38th article of Law 5510, and the 80th article of Bag 6495, which took effect in 2013, have wiped out the entrances and premiums of our veterans' military or pre-war insurance. So our veterans have now lost the right to early retirement on the day of 3600 bonuses and 15 years of service according to obstacle rates. While working from 2013 to 2016, the pensions of our veterans, who met early retirement requirements and retired, were cut off in this scope. Many of our gasses in this situation were reported last year that they had been paid for their lives, and that they would not be paid after that. Again, the salaries paid to our veterans are again requested as debts. Dear lawmakers, the rights of our state, the integrity of our nation, the indivisibility of our country, and our martyrs who walk to martyrdom without blinking, will not be paid back to our precious families and heroic veterans. Look, I don't have the tongue to pronounce this number to the parents of public officials who were still martyrs when they were married, but only 597 lira is paid. As Turkey, we should be able to take care of a handful of martyr relatives and our gas. Let's not forget the remains of our martyrs and our veterans are our family too. We can't do anything for them, but we have to be able to make the government feel that we're always there for them. Despite their great heroism, a veteran's medal must be given to those of us who are not disabled and who will carry the title of veteran with honor and who will proudly tell their children about it. In addition, they must be compensated for their disability, and they must benefit from their disability provisions. In this context, the current problems and demands must be properly reviewed and meet new and righteous demands. Instead of piece by piece arrangements, a single legislation and institution that covers all arrangements for martyrs and veterans' rights must be organised. The opportunity to buy an extenuated SUV for only orthopedic disabled persons should be recognized, for once, to our veterans and relatives with different barriers, and to their relatives who live with them. I, with these feelings and thoughts, believe that the righteous expectations of our fellow martyrs and veterans will be met as soon as possible, with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0003par0029	The second off-the-book statement belongs to Denizli MP Gülizar Bicçer Karaca, who wants to mention the anniversary of Ataturk's arrival in Denizli. Here you go, Mr. Karaca.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0004par0033	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect to my dear Denizli countrymen and all our citizens who are watching us on the screen. Today is February 4th, the anniversary of the arrival of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, eighty-nine years ago. Today, the heart would love to celebrate this proud day with great joy and joy. However, we do not find such a celebration appropriate in the hearts of our fallen soldiers in Idlib yesterday. I hereby offer God's mercy to all of our martyrs, and my condolences to their grieving families and to all of our country, and to our wounded, and to all of ours, and to all of ours, and to all of us, and to all of us, and to all of us, and to all of us, and to all of us, and to all of us, and to all of us, and to all of us, and to all of us, and to all of us, and to all of us, and to all of us, and to all of us, and to all of us, and Eighty-nine years ago, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk honored our province of Denizli on February 4th as part of his trip to the Great Aegean. Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who came with railway transport, described our province as an entire village when he entered Denizli. It had to be developed and made into a modern city. When he saw the vast cotton fields from the window of the train, which we called the white gold, he first built the Sumerbank factory to support our cotton manufacturers and to implement the industrial move in Denizli, and he placed this factory on the edge of the railroad. Today, at Denizli, our industrialists, who signed a $3 billion export, are unfortunately using the most expensive means of transportation to the ports. Why? Because after building Sumerbank, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk has not struck a nail in the railway road that he has healed for 17 years, and our industrialist is still longing to invest in those railways to reach the ports, and that beautiful song of Anatolia, the black train, is late... humming its song. Dear MPs, our Denizli is a city that has been able to contribute to the existence of our country and our republic, primarily historically. Four hours after Izmir's invasion by Greeks, Müfti Ahmet Hulusî Efendi (Mufti Ahmet Hulusî) gathered at Bajramyeri Square, the Denizli raised their fire to Kuvaimilli by calling: "If we do not have a rifle, we will face the enemy with a slinging stone," he said. So, what is Denizli's condition today? According to statistics, today, in Turkey's third most indebted provinces in our naval province, the number of citizens who have been tracking for execution because they can't pay their loans is unfortunately in the sixth place, but the Denizli, who contributes to the country's economy by $3 billion, does not deserve them. In the sea, agriculture is almost over. Unfortunately, in Denizli, our industrialists hand over their factories one by one to the banks they owe loans to. Are our sea people sad? Are our sea people offended or offended? Of course not. Because it's not a province that says, "Let the State do it, let us wait." How can we contribute more to our country, our country, how can we work harder? It is a city that, by its own labour and by its own sweat, has once been able to become an Anadoli tiger. Denizli will do it again. Denizli will rise from the ashes again, and all our citizens in Denizli are looking forward to the future as we struggle with the economic crisis, in the grip of unemployment, and my Denizli countrymen say: "We live in the excitement and hope of the day when we will take account of those who made our seaman like this, the day when we will be able to account for the day and the people's power, the day when we will bring the Republic People's Party to power. And while we live in that hope, I am in this struggle, despite every obstacle, to contribute to all our citizens, to our entire country. We will continue to say, This is what I wanted to tell you about our Denizli and our fellow citizens who were watching us, because of the fact that the number of the sea number of 20 (2020) is the Year of the Sea. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0005par0042	Pack it up.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0004par0043	Knowing the conditions of Denizli, I wanted to make sure that 2020 was the Year of the Sea, the introduction of our Denizli, the strengthening of our Denizli's economy, and the return to the days of the Anadolu tiger. I salute the General Assembly and all my fellow citizens who follow us.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0005par0046	The third unscheduled statement is from Hatay MP Huseyin Yayman, who wants to talk about the completion of the Great Karachay and Reyhan Dams and 2020 State Water Affairs investments. Here you go, Mr. Sagittarius.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0006par0050	Mr. President, members of our Veteran Assembly, I salute you with respect. At the beginning of my words, once again I ask God's mercy to our citizens who died in Elazig and Malatya, and to their grieving families and to our mighty nation. Again, in the same way, the martyrdom of our heroes yesterday at Idlib. It really broke our hearts. Once again, I ask God's mercy on our martyrs, and ask patience for their grieving families. I'm sorry for the loss of our beloved nation. We believe that martyrs don't die, the country doesn't split. My dear President, our esteemed deputies, today I have made a promise regarding the investments of State Water Affairs in Hatay. Indeed, Hatay is very, very important to our farmer, and to our countrymen, we have three dams that are very, very important. Our most important dam is the Great Karachay Dam. The Great Karachay Dam is a big project that brings five functions side by side, and with this dam, the problem of dehydration will be avoided in summer, the floods of winter, electricity will be produced, and more importantly, the need for centuries of drinking water will be met, and more importantly, a project that will make our region an environmentally sensitive project, which will in a sense transform the region of Samandag into the Avant. I really want to thank everyone who's worked on this project. The project costs 600 million, 600 trillion in old money. Another important project is the Woodbridge Dam. The Woodbridge Dam is a project that has been on the agenda since the 1970s and has been asked to be completed, and is a major watering project such as the GAP, in a sense, of the Axis Plain. Our dam is also complete, and it has reached a level of up to 60 percent capacity by almost six tenths. Our esteemed delegation, our dam -- with the old money -- has a total cost of 630 trillion dollars, and its annual benefit will be 650 million Turkish liras. In a sense, it's a very, very important project that will pay for itself in the same year, an integrated project. In a sense, the water of the Ceyhan River will reach the Amik Plain, the Reyhanite, and the village of Benoba, with an enormous 105km [105 km] of canals from the Menseles and Guided Dams. Another important project, again, is the Reyhanite Dam, which has been on the agenda since the 1990s. Reyhanlı Dam is one of the longest dams in terms of the length of the body, and thank God this year, and this dam, hopefully, is an important project that will save our plain from winter floods, floods, and summer watering problems, and in a sense, Hatay, almost 2 billion Turkish dollars in investment, our AK PARTI governments have signed our signatures, and we are grateful to our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who owns this signature. Had it not been for his vision and his leadership, the three dams in Hatay would not have ended, perhaps not. Another thanks to Mr. Bekir Pakdemirli, our Minister of Agriculture and Forestry. If it weren't for their contribution, we wouldn't be able to complete this dam. We thank our Minister Veysel Eroglu, who has worked very hard on these dams, although he is not in the hall at the moment. Thank you to our General Director of State Water Affairs and to our Hatay Branch Director, and to our AK PARTY Deputys, the Mayor, who signed under all of this. Indeed, their unity led to the coming of these investments to Hatay. Dear lawmakers, these are very, very valuable projects that will bring life to Amik Plains and make our farmer's face smile. These projects, thank God, are the greatest gifts of our republic, the greatest achievements of our Hatay.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0007par0059	Pack it up.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0006par0060	Mr. President, I'll finish my vows. Mr. President, I wanted to make a special commitment to these investments. Because Hatay is one of our provinces, which is the longest limit to Syria, and as a war continues, our government is one of the greatest achievements in which to invest for three large dams of about two billion Turkish liras and those dams are completed, water-holding, and service to our farmer, one of the greatest joys of the Hatays. I, at the end of my words, thank you to our very dear citizens who watch television and to the anonymous heroes who sign under these projects, and to our dear fellow Hatays, and to all of you, I salute you with love.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0008par0064	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before making a promise to the first 15 people, two of our MPs have now expressed that we have martyrs in their own province, asking for a moment's notice. Out of respect for our martyrs, of course I want to promise them. Here you go, Mr. Baha Celebrity.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0009par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. As with the sad news from the city of Idlib of Syria yesterday, my constituency district, Osmaniye, has been shot. Eight of our heroes, Mehmekçik, who lost their lives in Idlib, are my countrymen from Daziçi district of Osmaniye. I condemn and condemn this vile attack on our heroic soldiers. I wish our martyrs the mercy of God, the condolences and patience of their grieving families, the immediate healing of our wounded soldiers. My condolences to our nation and Osmaniye. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0010par0071	Mr. Muhittin, please.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0011par0073	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, on the night of February 3, 2020, we have eight martyrs, including three of whom were civilians and five of whom were killed in an attack by regime forces in Idlib. From our martyrs, Specialist Corporal Onur Ozler and Uður Kurt were our fellow citizens, our brave grizzlies who grew up in our Ülkü Januarys; their place is heaven, and their souls rest in peace. Our government has given us the answer to this vile attack in times its size and momentum. With great courage and determination, our military strength must be effectively used against these attacks, which must continue until Idlib and his surroundings are imprisoned against Turkey's enemies. These tyrants will surely pay for every drop of blood they shed. It is once again understood that peace and security will not come to Syria until the cruel Assad regime is destroyed, without finding its cruel punishment.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0010par0074	Miss Zeynep, please.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0012par0076	I wish God's mercy and patience to our brother Uður Tarn, our brother from Gülnar, who was killed by a traitorous attack on Idlib, and to his relatives, our beloved nation's head.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0010par0077	Mr. Flitz, if you have any demands regarding our Gaziantep martyr, I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0013par0078	Yeah.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0010par0079	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0013par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Seven soldiers and one civilian driver were killed by the Assad regime elements in Syria's Idlib district, two of whom were from Gaziantep province. I ask God's mercy on our martyrs, and for the immediate healing of our wounded, and for their grieving families. My condolences to all of us. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0014par0084	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0015par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask God's mercy on our civilians and soldiers who have persecuted their own people, displaced them, killed them, and been martyred by the cruel Syrian regime. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Dear lawmakers, if we ask ourselves a question about what we should remember, when we should remember, the answers we will give will be enough to remember the birthdays of ourselves and our family, the promise, the engagement anniversary, the events that lead to our new happiness once a year. Well, is it enough to remember the natural disasters, such as earthquakes as individually, socially, as universities, as NGOs and media media organs, as the power, as the opposition, as the country, only on the anniversary? If we say it's enough, I'm sorry to say we haven't learned a lesson. If we say it's not enough, the earthquake is three hundred sixty-five days and six hours...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0016par0091	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0017par0093	Mr. President, I have stated on 21/2/2019 that no school has been replaced by 12 schools that have been destroyed because of their lack of earthquake resistance, leaving their students and families in a very difficult position. Last week, the National Ministry of Education has decided to destroy 24 schools in the central and districts of Bursa. The number was added to 24 more schools, while the public questioned that there were not even a nail in place of 12 schools that had been destroyed in two years. It is a painful fact that education will continue under far more difficult circumstances in our 3 million-dollar scholarship. How long has 24 schools been damaged? Why have you allowed training in these buildings until today? Why did you wait for the Elazig earthquake to end training in these 24 schools? The public wonders when 36 schools will be opened for education. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0018par0096	Mr. Serker, please.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0019par0098	Mr. President, thank you. Yesterday, I was at Izmir County Health Directorate to prevent a scandal I've been following for months. In a country with all the laws on protecting personal data, we were able to get all the data of our 4.3 million Izmir citizens by writing a single name on the Health Department sick lab results page. Because of a serious personal data breach in this matter, I applied with a written petition for immediate measures. Two hours after my application, access to the page was completely blocked. As of this morning, this system began to function as it should. Isn't there another man in the entire Ministry of Health who would follow this up in a public institution where so many human forces worked? Where are the human rights? I would like to invite the Ministry of Health and Minister Koca. I demand that whoever is responsible for these demeanours be terminated immediately, and I am a follower of this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0020par0102	Mr. Butcher...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0021par0104	Mr. President, February 4th World Cancer Day, cancer awareness Day. We've done 88 million imaging of our 82 million people, and the rays are increasing the rate of cancer every day. In 2018, 308 million boxes of nerve medicine were prescribed and used. Step one couldn't be planned. They made people sick. In 2002, 1,598,000 surgeries took place, while in 2018, there were 5 million or so surgeries. The money spent on the pocket was $50 in 2002, and it was $3352 in 2018. Really, what was the plan, I'd like to ask the Ministry of Health. They made people sick. They didn't try the first step at the time of Recep Akdağ. I wonder when they'll plan it. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0020par0106	Mr. Gunpowder...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0022par0108	The Ministry of Youth and Sports has not had an upgrade exam since 2008. In 12 years, the changes in titles and promotions made in the ministry's institutions and institutions were made in what criteria and in what conditions of elimination? In the meantime, how many people, such as the branch manager, the county manager, the youth centre and the dorm manager, have been promoted from what institutions, according to what criteria? Why are staffs such as the district office, the youth center office, the Federation general secretaryship not subject to the promotional exam? Is it true that the people who were promoted to these positions claim to have been promoted by their uncle-sized relationships, their fellow citizens, parties and unions? How has the absence of a promotional exam in 12 years affected the tenure of current staff, trust in the state, and sense of integrity, and why has there been no test of promotion in the post in 12 years? Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0020par0110	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0023par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. In addition to Niğde, I receive letters from farmers of our different provinces. Ergun Bey of Sultaniye says in his letter: "We applied for a loan configuration of 2019 to the Regional Credit Cooperative. The interest exceeds the principal. When you deposit 20 percent of our debt, the configuration will be made. We have many farmers like me, we didn't get the money for our 2019 products, we're on industrial tomatoes, and we couldn't invest 20 percent, we didn't ask for an extension. The co-op lawyer has initiated executions and foreclosures; our tractor, our land is tied, our hands are tied. Right now, I'd like to consolidate the debt, and I'm looking for support from your valued elders. The 2019 is over, the configuration is done in 2020, and we are in a very difficult situation. There are many letters for this. The president needs to hear about the farmers' victimization, and the power must consolidate the farmers' debts and erase their interest. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0024par0115	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0025par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, our eight heroic sons were killed by the regime in Idlib, one of them civilians, seven of them soldiers, as a result of a vicious attack that led us to a deep sadness. I pray to God for the mercy of our sainted martyrs who have died in this vile attack, to their grieving families, to our armed forces, to our beloved nation, to their patience, and to our wounded. Meanwhile, a total of 42 people -- including 32 Turkish citizens living in the region and demanding to return to Turkey -- have been successfully carried out by our state due to the recent deadly outbreak of coronavirus in China, including 6 Azerbaijan, 3 Georgia and 1 Albanian citizens. Our government says that every moment he needs in or abroad is in the service of our beloved nation, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0026par0121	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0027par0123	The district of Çaybaş district of the military district of İlküvez district has been identified as a solid waste wild storage area. The water of the stream around the garbage field is like this, and this water is given to homes in Teahead and Primavez. Locals, who voted 90 per cent for the AKP, are forced to accept the return of their vote as garbage spilled to their heads and living spaces. People say: "Go back to your land, go back to your village. You say, "Get this trash out of here or get us out of here." From two o'clock last night, he operated with about a thousand gendarmes and police officers in this village, the busy governor there. The ruling representatives who visited the region earlier said Erdogan wasn't aware of this situation, that it would be resolved after Erdogan found out. When the police last night saw the carabinieri baton crushed under the boots, I wanted to ask if it was Erdogan's choice or the busy governor's. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0028par0126	Mr. Sevkin...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0029par0128	The Adana Çukurova State Symphony Orchestra was unable to perform due to lack of personnel. Although the number of artists is rapidly falling, the 71-member norm squad has fallen to 35 today due to the lack of current staff. The orchestra, which is supposed to be a staff of 120 artists, cannot perform the smallest work of its repertoire without external support within its own body. It is imperative that the available staff of the CDSO be granted a visa to 75 people, then increased the norm staff, and increased the number to 120 people, as with other state symphony orchestras, and on the other hand, the orchestra's concert hall needs to be met immediately. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism must quickly resolve the staff and hall problem of the Çukurova State Symphony Orchestra, hosting national and international artists, art lovers. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0028par0130	Mr. Oztunç...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0030par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. The last Elazig and Malatya showed the earthquake that the building is killing, not the earthquake. Right after the earthquake, unfortunately, scientists on all TVs say that Kahramanmarash is a serious earthquake site, especially in Turkoglu district, where there is an energy buildup, and there is no serious earthquake for nearly five hundred years. We, Kahramanmarash, do not want to experience this vision in Elazıg. We need to take precautions for that. Here, the responsibility falls to the current Metropolitan administration and the government. We're warning the Metropolitan Municipality and the government, we're saying take the necessary precautions, but unfortunately, no work is being done at this time. We're carrying out our warning mission. When there is an earthquake, then we say, "Do it now, so that you don't say it." Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0031par0135	Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0032par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. At the beginning of my words, I'd like to ask God's mercy on our martyrs, our nation's head. As in our country, citizens in Artvin Ili and Districts say that electricity bills, in contrast to the cost of use, are relatively high, that differences that exceed 100 per cent compared to previous periods and months have been detected, that they are victimised by the practices of electricity distribution companies. Especially my constituency, Artvin, is a city of energy, a city of dams. Our citizens, especially our tradespeople, are deeply victimized in this regard. Almost electricity is cut due to over 100 per cent invoice costs, and there are problems with relevant management. In this regard, is the Ministry of Energy not doing the necessary inspections? The people of Artvin expect the merchants of Artvin to be sensitive to this issue, to be instructed by authorities to take the necessary measures for the removal of the victims with more than a hundred percent of the bills. This is a matter of great Parliament...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0033par0142	Mr. Chepni.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0034par0144	The decision has been made to quickly nationalize 511 lands in the districts of Urla and Çeshme. 178 in the Fountain Alaçat neighborhood and 333 in the Urla Olive neighbourhood have been earmarked for tourism investments. These zones have been opened to the Ranta, devoid of being a first-degree SCE field. In the same way, it is also wanted to be confiscated from Urla (DİSK) 61 acres -- five years old -- where the DİSK has given the use of workers. Publicized land is a land of agriculture. The people of the region are at risk of being displaced from their homes, where agriculture and livestock have been seized. Lands that are closed to construction are being bought cheaply from the public, and tourism companies are being pursued, and the decision must be immediately waived.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0033par0145	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0035par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Eurasian Tunnel crossing fees have been raised 56 per cent since February 1, 2020. According to these record-level increases, one-way transit fees increased from 23.30 TL to 36.40 TL for automobiles, from 34.90 TL to 54.70 TL for vans. I'm asking Mr. Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance, for what reason did Eurasian Tunnel transit fees go up at a record high? Although 2019 inflation rates were 11.84 per cent; 2020 minimum wage increases were 15 per cent; while pensioners and civil servants were rated 6.5 per cent and 5.5 per cent, why was the Eurasian Tunnel transfer rate increased 56 per cent? You continue to have the companies of the do-and-do firms rob our nation. Don't you have a conscience?
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0033par0150	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0036par0152	Thank you, Mr. President. I pray to God for our martyrs, and for our veterans, and for our nation. When it was completed, the world's largest medium-opened drawbridge title was cut in half in construction of the 1915 Çanakkale Bridge, which would be the bridge of symbols with colors, figures and other features. For the bridge between Lapseki-Sikerkaya positions in Gallibolu-Sütlüce, sea and overwater work continue continuously. The height of the bridge will be 318 meters, and the height has reached 143 meters. Each two foot intervals will be 2023 meters, meaning the 100th year of the founding of the Republic of Turkey. The 1915 Çanakkale Bridge will be the first in the world with its subtlety in its design. Thank you for passing through. Good luck to our country, to our nation.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0037par0156	Mr. Arkaz...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0038par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, my condolences to the Turkish nation for the mercy of God, the healing of our wounded, the mercy of our soldiers who were killed in the foul attack on Idlib. The symptoms of the rapidly spreading coronavirus may be headaches, fever, nasal currents, nausea, diarrhea, and abdominal pain, along with shortness of breath. Babies, children, old people, diabetics, patients who have chemo and lung and heart patients are the head of those who are at risk for the virus, in short the immune system. What needs to be done in order to avoid the virus that has not yet been injected with medicine and vaccines is to stay away from crowded environments, with hygiene, health care, plenty of liquids and vitamin C. Turkey is among the first countries in the world to take precautions against corona. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0039par0162	Now, Mr. Group, I'm going to meet the VP's demands. Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0040par0165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Eight of our children were killed and seven of our soldiers were injured as a result of a humiliating attack by regime forces in Idlib. I pray for God's mercy on our martyrs, and my condolences on their grieving families, and upon our beloved nation, and for our wounded children, and for our urgent healing. After the attack of the regime forces, the Turkish Army was targeted because it did not predict the operation, and its explanation is clear and clear. It is also important that the attack took place during the visit to Ukraine. Unfortunately, our soldiers pay the senseless price for Mr. Erdogan's financial support of the Ukrainian army while drawing close to Russia on the one hand. In foreign policy, the government has turned the ropes into a paradox, and it can no longer function. Mr. President, yesterday in Ukraine, 1 million more Syrians came from Idlib. If four million Syrians in our country weren't enough, how could you accept a million more Syrians, where would you be able to live and work? The $40 billion spent on this nation's money wasn't enough, but how much more do you intend to spend? Turkey will never be able to handle another wave of migration. The broken Syrian policy is now registered with the last 1 million Syrians. The government was caught off guard again, no plans, no programs. He must keep the Syrian coming across the border in tent cities, and the assistance must be jointly provided with the United Nations.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0041par0170	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0040par0171	There is still no effective step in investigating the political foot of the parliament, which we have tried to expose and repeatedly submitted to the parliament. I care deeply about Mr. Ilker Basbug, our 26th Chief of Staff,'s last words, which shed light on the political foot of the ا. The law, which opens the way for the soldiers to be tried in civil court, opened the way for the MPs in the middle of the night, and as a result, Mr. Basbug, the Chief of General Staff of the period, was sentenced to prison by civil courts of special authority on the charge of establishing and leading a terrorist organization. It's obvious who's under the offer. If we want to identify the political foot, we'll start here, the end of the rope will appear. AS A GOOD PARTY, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0042par0174	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0043par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. On February 3, 2020, our troops, sent as reinforcements to Syria's Idlib region to prevent conflict and protect observation points, were attacked by a treacherous attack by regime elements. Seven of our soldiers and one of our civilian officers have been killed and seven of our soldiers have been injured in this vile attack. The news of our martyrs has broken our hearts. I pray to God for our martyrs, and to our veterans for speedy healing. I'm sorry for the loss of our beloved nation. We have no doubt that the focus of evil, which underestimates Turkey's power and memory, will receive the necessary response both on the field and on the table. Due to the civil war and the war on power of attorney in Syria that began in 2011, critical measures for border security of our country were taken and counterterrorism operations were carried out. One of our fighting fields is Idlib (Idlib), where tensions rise and conflicts are concentrated, and Turkey borders with Turkey for 130km. The Assad regime, under the protection of Russia and Iran, has become a threat to its own people and to our soldiers in the region, based on their exclusive authority. We have to analyze this imperial play, which is staged across our borders. Syria has roughly four administrative regions: regions under regime control, areas that Turkey has cleared of terrorism through cross-border operations and controlled for security, areas under which the United States has temporary control and cities declared as non-conflict zones.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0044par0181	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0043par0182	This painting is the reason the Assad regime turned its eyes toward Idlib. The only area in which Assad could move forward is Idlib. The furious Assad regime has rocked the hatchet, and its presence in the region has launched an aggressive attack on our country's exclusive powers due to international law. Idlib is a region in which the Astana talks have been declared a non-combat zone. The 4th Astana Summit on May 4, 2017 and the Sochi Covenant signed between Turkey and Russia on October 22, 2019, established an observation point in Turkey, Russia, 10 and Iran. The Sochi Covenant and Astana process envisioned the end of conflict in the region.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0044par0185	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0043par0186	On the other hand, an agreement was signed in September 2018 to end the existence of Turkey and Russia's Idlib. But at this point neither the Assad regime nor Russia have observed the settlement process in Idlib, and the agreements in the process. Since November 2019, it has been evidence that the Syrian army's military operations in Idlib have gained speed and that Russia has concentrated air strikes. One of the main ideas Turkey has led in the Idlib process is that there is no military operation against Idlib. As a result of talks between Russia and Turkey, the ceasefire was announced on January 12, 2020. However, rather than agreeing on such a matter, which is critical to the rest of our country, the conflict has continued to continue the air and land attacks of the Damascus administration and Russia in Idlib. Turkey's idea has a response to international agreements and legitimacy. One step later, this attack was carried out without consideration, and our heroic soldiers have given the answer and will continue to give it. As our President, Mr. State Gardener, has stressed, recent developments have shown us that the settlement process in Syria is a multi-screen theatre that includes Geneva, Sochi and Astana. Turkey, which is part of diplomatic reconciliation in Syria, Libya, and other conflict regions, is trying to be eliminated by hit-and-run tactics and outdated peace talks. A regional and international equation without Turkey can never be considered. Any strategy, regardless of Turkey's sovereignty, is doomed to drowning.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0044par0189	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0043par0190	It is our duty to exercise our right to self-defense within the framework of our legitimate rights and responsibilities due to international law, to eliminate any dangerous attempt to threaten our sovereignty rights, to take every precaution. The heroic Turkish soldier, who has performed his duty in the region, is the guarantee of the lives, dignity of the civilian population, and will continue to happen. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0044par0192	Dear Oluç...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0045par0194	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, first of all, we ask for the mercy of the soldiers who lost their lives in Idlib, their families, and their relatives, and our condolences and patience. The inflation rates were announced in January. When we look at January inflation, we see an increase of 1.35. It was 12.15 per cent year-on-year, and when we looked at the twelve-month averages, inflation increased by 14.52 per cent. So there's no decline in inflation, and despite all the pink paintings drawn, the facts of life don't cover it. As a matter of fact, the facts are in public market stalls, public dinners; everyone sees what really happens. No matter how much TÜİK tries to play with official numbers, the picture in inflation rates seems very clear. Poverty is not diminishing, unemployment and inflation are not falling, but it is increasing. TİK is doing various operations to block this bad economy. They've recently made changes in the basket where they calculate inflation, so they're making these changes to manipulate the facts. The problem, of course, is not with the TÜİK bureaucrats, but with the Treasury and Finance Minister Berat Colonelrak, who basically directs those bureaucrats. The Secretary of Treasury and Finance has to stop doing all sorts of manipulation on TİK figures in order to uncover the pink table, and once again, let's stress that. Because again this month, we also see the situation when we look at the January border of hunger and poverty that Turkey's Turkish Workers' Unions Confederacy announced.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0046par0199	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0045par0200	According to this study, in January figures, a family of four has increased to $2.219 a month's cost of food needed to be healthy, balanced and adequate. Now, as we look at the expenses needed for clothing, housing, transportation, education, health care and so on, the poverty limit for a family of four has increased to $7.229; the figures of the Turkish-İHK show this. So TİK is taking food spending out of its inflation basket, but it shows the figures of Turkish-İSK that no matter how much it's removed, the facts of the economy are never coverable. Both inflation and in unemployment and in poverty, the policies of power show that it presents a very grave picture. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now, the Media Watch Report of the Modern Journalists Association and the Dicle Fırat Journalists Association was announced on January 2020. It was written in the report on freedom of the press and on what obstacles and problems the press workers faced in the first month of the year. In the first month of 2020, pressure on press workers, journalists continues, media workers do not seem to be prevented and their problems are over, new cases are being filed against many journalists, and many journalists are being punished. In the January report, 4 journalists were sentenced to 21 years and 6 months in prison, 2 journalists were indicted, 12 journalists continued to be tried, 7 journalists lost their jobs. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One of the main issues is that, you know, nearly 1,000 journalists' yellow press cards were canceled, then activated over reactions. As a result, this January 2020 Media Watch Report shows that the pressures and obstructions on journalists are not over, but as another activity of the government as well. I'd like to mention one last thing, which we've often said here. If you recall, we have also expressed problems facing both in the matches related to Amedspor, and in the applications of the Central Referee Board, both in the stadiums and in the Federation. Now, Cizrespor has announced that the referees will withdraw from the league because of their attitude, racist slogans and the lack of interference from referees. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm picking it up, sir. As a matter of fact, if we look at it from both the Football Federation's perspective and from the Central Referee Board, its tasks are to ensure the equality of competition in sports and to ensure that sports competition lasts in a healthy manner, but on the contrary, the Turkish Football Federation has approaches that eliminate competition from both the Central Reference Board. We see no measures are being taken against these attacks, which have reached almost as well as at the stadiums. In fact, when we look at the universal definition of sports, it is clear that the whole country's federations, including UEFA and FIFA, have taken a very clear stand against racial slogans and lynching attempts at the stadiums. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let us once again emphasise that this clear attitude should be taken in Turkey, and stressing the withdrawal of Cizrespork from the league due to these pressures, once again condemning the position of the Federation and the Central Referee Board. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0047par0212	Mr. Free, come in.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0048par0214	Thank you, Mr. President, and we wish you a good week of work, all of our groups and all of our MPs. Of course, we started a very depressed week. We cherish eight of our martyrs who were killed by artillery fire in Idlib. Halil Demir, Şükrü Özler, Serkan Earthquake, Uğur Taran, Gökhan Orhan, Kadir Yıldız, Uğur Kurt, and İsmail Akatay are mentioned here once again under the transcripts of our Parliament. We wish these sad news to be the last. It's a day where I just want to remind you once again that the Justice and Development Party's policy, not only on Syria and Idlib, but on the lives of our soldiers, especially on the watch towers there, about the military measures and diplomatic moves that need to be taken on this subject, because the day doesn't allow us to say anything beyond that, but I want to make it clear once again that it's obvious that we should be able to think about these issues in the next few days and consider how valuable the criticism and proposals from opposition parties are after this. Mr. President, the Turkish Sugar Foundation announced on December 31, 2019 that 1,500 workers were hired to operate in sugar factories, and there is a process of hiring staff in these factories. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear lawmakers, according to Law 5620, workers were working here for five months and twenty-nine days, and as a result of all our efforts, an arrangement later made on this subject allowed the deadline to be extended to nine months and twenty-nine days by January 2, 2020. Now, workers have been working in sugar factories for ten months; these workers have been working since 1990. Our government has a tradition: if you hire temporary workers somewhere, then if you hire workers there, those temps will be given staff, but this method is not adopted, and these workers, who have worked for five months and twenty-nine days, now nine months and twenty-nine days, have worked for years and years and years and years of doing what they know how to do, 1,500 workers from the outside come to sugar factories. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This is not justice. This is not a matter of conscience. This is the struggle of our friends, as it is in the traditions of our state, that the priority should be given to them. For a long time, this power has promised these workers a staff, and it is not acceptable for them to take 1,500 staffers from outside and not hire these workers. We, the Republican People's Party group, invite all groups to be sensitive, to take care of this problem. Dear President Ahmet Turan Kılıç, 86-year-old Ahmet Turan Kılıç, the perpetrator of the killing of Madımak in Sivas, has been pardoned by the president of the Justice and Development Party, who has been granted a constitutional right, but has not used it very generously. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] While the fire in Madimak is still burning in our hearts, while the institution in Madimak is defaming the justice of this country, at the point that comes today, those who go to this person's house share the photos they kiss on social media, renew the pain, burn the hearts, and, unfortunately, justify all concerns about the political decision given. Mr. President, while the President is exercising his pardon... for example, 50 patients died in prison in 2019 and over 7,000 applications, particularly the Human Rights Association, have been left unanswered. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He must be treated in the hospital, he cannot stay in prison. The decision made by the Justice and Development Party is a violation of the memory of those who have lost their lives in prison while 50 people have died in prison, the execution of this pardon to the person who received the aggravated life sentence, and the place where the pardon has been imposed is not a crime committed against humanity but a massacre. We do not accept it, Mr. President; we do not accept it. Mr. President, we've asked you and our Speaker repeatedly to protect the House's reputation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We've witnessed your individual's efforts in these matters by our Speakers of Parliament, and we've thanked you immediately when necessary. Mr. President, I have in my hand a question motion from our Councilor Nurhat Altaca Kayışoğlu to Süleyman Soylu. Mr. President, in the question motion, there are as many migrations as there are immigrants from countries like Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, as there are immigrants from Europe. The first question is: how many asylum seekers are there in Turkey? How many of these have been granted citizenship? That is the question. Two: the distribution of the citizens according to the cities of the Syrians. The question is, this is the number. Three: amongst those given citizenship, the nation asks according to the countries, asking for numbers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The question is five: How many cities do they live in? Mr. President, they answered 4 per cent in their time; we criticised them, criticized them, went up to 8.5. There are many ministers among the 35 percent of the good example, Spirit Pekcan, among the 1.5 percent of the bad example. "Solomon Noble has answered the question, and I read the answer, one line: the Turkish Citizenship Act No.5901 and the regulations relating to the Turkish Citizenship Act are being carried out according to regulations. This is the answer. Is that an answer, Mr. President? Isn't that disrespectful to the House? Isn't it a mockery of the legislature of the AK PARTY? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Question: How many Syrians are there, how many are given citizenship, and what is the distribution according to the provinces? The answer is: it's being processed according to the relevant law. And this waste of paper, this waste of ink... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This has the right to an undamaged orphan, and we all have the right to the minimum wager who works hard in this country. He's sitting down, and look at his signature, it's a shame about the ink, it's a shame about the paper. It's sarcasm, it's an insult to all of us, it's an insult to the Court, it's an insult to the House. We don't accept that, Mr. President, we say that the House must be defended, especially by the Speaker of Parliament. This is outrageous. We can't possibly accept that. And finally, this is the party state, the state party, the family party... That's the point of the party state, when the question comes from the opposition, the answer is, God forbid! A raise to Eurasia Tunnel: 56 per cent; 36 lira 40 cents. The total increase he saw was 119 percent from the day it opened. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There are 25.5 million vehicles per year guaranteed, not money, but vehicles guaranteed. On February 1, 2019, we gave a 37 percent increase in sharing Eurasia Tunnel Twitter account. Are they going to make us lose elections? He's making up for it. Who's that? The do-and-do-development. Well, that's the raise, so let's not let the public think that the government pays what they don't pass. The government has given us a raise... to avoid paying. Not that one, friends, the government has guaranteed us passage, the car passage. Consolidated: One, take advantage of the firm; two, the nation's... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You give the worker 3%, you give the officer 4%, you get the pensioner crushed by inflation. The firm raised 119 percent, 56 percent at once. Before local elections, is there a 37 percent increase? Of course, it's 3.7 percent. What's it going to be? You will not lose Istanbul. The election's gonna pass, 56 percent raise, nobody's making a sound. It's not a conscience; it's not a mercy. You're sacrificing the company to the benefit of a party, and the state to the benefit of a party, and the interests of all of us to the interests of our allies. Unacceptable. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0049par0244	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0050par0246	Thank you very much, my dear President. Dear friends, I wish you a good living week as well, first and foremost. I pray for God's mercy and forgiveness to those of us who lost their lives as a result of a misdemeanor attack on our Mehmetçik, who served by the Syrian regime in Idlib, and to our veterans, and to our wounded, and to the Lord of our Lord. After this attack, nearly 76 regimes have been neutralized by Turkey, and it should be known by everyone that our operations will continue. Our national interests, rights, and our own policies, I wish once again the whole world would know that we will carry out our own policy on this matter with determination all the way to the end, at sea, on land, in the air. Dear friends, you know, there was an earthquake in Elazıg and Malatya. I pray for God's mercy to our citizens who have lost their lives here, and for our wounded to heal quickly. However, under the supervision of our President, our Minister of Interior, Minister of Environment and Urbanism, our Minister of Health and other concerned institutions, all of our institutions and institutions... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...with the immediate intervention of all measures, the healing of the wounds, the immediate fulfillment of rescue activities, there has indeed been a superhuman effort. In this framework, I owe a debt to all of our institutions and organizations, especially the AFAD, the Gendarme, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, our Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and all of our relevant units, over 7,000 of our staff there, all of the NGOs, the rescue crews, and, in real solidarity, the immediate removal of this disaster. [[The microphone was turned off by the automatic device.]] On this occasion, I would like to say again that the wounds of our citizens who destroyed their homes in the earthquake will be covered, where all our people, all our citizens -- as in Jingöl, as in Van., as in Kütahya, as in Kütahya -- quickly, I hope, will be returned to their dwellings, to their homes, to their homes, to their homes, quickly. Dear friends, you know, there's something about Palestine that's been brought up by the United States in the form of the Peace of the Century. In fact, its name is peace, but it is evident that the occupation and the compulsion that lies under it, and that this step towards Israel being the whole of Palestine. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As a matter of fact, our great Assembly, with all its parties, by all our lawmakers, cried out loudly and proclaimed its will to the world about this plan, which is called peace, but is its property, its occupation, and its Muslims there, for the destruction of the Palestinian state. On this occasion, I would like to rephrase that we would never accept this plan, and that we would stand by Palestine with the legislature, with the executive body, with the government, with the nation, with the people, with justice and justice, and that the mosqued-i Aksa would represent our privacy and our red line, our first qiblah, even if we were alone in the world, that this would do the starboarding, the bannering of the Turkish nation and the state of the Republic of Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Finally, you know, there's been an important development today. Five of the mothers of Diyarbakır's mothers who were waiting for their children in front of HDP province building in Diyarbakır have been reunited with their son. Congratulations to the mother and son. It sends our greetings and greetings to our mothers who are expecting to meet their children from our Lord, and to those who are expecting to meet their children, and I would like to say to them that we are always there for them in their honorable struggle and that we will always be there for them. Other than that, dear friends, there's one important thing that's been said, and I'd like to get in touch with that and finalize my words. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Of course, within the scope of Article 104 (16) of the Constitution (16), the Constitution has submitted various tasks to the President for legislation, executive and judiciary, and has demonstrated the subject of using various powers. One of them is a constant case of sickness, injury, or abolition of my husband's sentence in Article 104 (16) joke. This has been appreciated and established by the presidents so far, as part of the health reports issued by the Forensic Medicine Association by the residency boards. The issue expressed here is also within the framework of the constitutional arrangement. Another issue is the issue of the political leg. I'd especially like to put it this way. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Every agenda we have about the bringing up of the political foot of ▪ and to the end, we call it a challenge, I express it. However, we would never, ever accept any person or institution, any agency's authority or position's desire for law enforcement, their approach to question, to eliminate, to eliminate, and we would not stoop to discussing the contents of it. However, the issues made that day are a declaration of will for the trial of the coupters of the Assembly, which the General Assembly has in common in this direction, and later came to the agenda as a matter of regulation in the Constitution. So the two issues need to be distinguished. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The authority to question the will of the law does not belong to any man, nor to any people; it cannot be handed over, it cannot be released, it cannot be taken to the fort. However, I would also like to say that we welcome the political foot of the High Assembly to speak to everyone at all times on every basis, in every way.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0051par0268	Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0052par0270	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If you really want to discuss the political foot on every floor and in every environment, let's discuss it together.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0053par0273	Come on, hero, come on, hero!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0052par0274	There have been numerous motions for research. And among my statements, there's no issue of law enforcement, there's a statement of one person, a statement of one person, and it says, "If you're investigating something, then I'm pulling the first string of the sock. Now, if you think it's worth it, give me a research proposal tomorrow, instead of pulling it out. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Excuse me, sir. It's beyond hodri square...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0054par0279	If the palace will allow it!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0052par0280	But if you're gonna ask anyone for permission, take it, and I'll tell you that. So if you really have the heart to have this discussion, I'd like you to apply for the spaces where you need to be allowed. Besides, there's no point in making an excuse for this every once in a while. We don't accuse and legalize the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we have a desire to at least identify the elements that remain outside. Otherwise, it stands as a dark shadow over your party. And I would like to say that as a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we cannot digest it, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0055par0283	Mr. Free, come in.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0056par0285	Mr. President, we're doing a serious job, and every word that comes out of our mouths is being watched, recorded, filed. We're all hearing that Mr. Deputy Director of Justice and Development of the Justice and Development Party says: "The political foot of the Party -- he doesn't say except the Parliament -- we're always open to debate on every ground, hodri square." What you're saying is that the Republican People's Party has a motion to investigate the political foot of the Republican People's Party. You've already rejected it.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0057par0286	We did it three times, three times!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0056par0287	We gave it back, and you said, "We don't vote with them." So we stopped. WE agree with the offer of the good PARTY. Tomorrow morning you'll bring in your motion to investigate the political foot of Laila, where tomorrow we'll support and raise two hands with 139 members of parliament. If you call it Hodri square, you stand behind it, if you say it on every floor, it's the most legitimate floor.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0058par0289	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0056par0290	This is where people make us take their vows and serve. This is the most legitimate floor. There's no way that you can take the authority from the nation and say, "No, not on every floor," and then say, "No." It's as strange as saying that, there's no way that you can make fun of someone's mind as much as saying it. We'll expect your group proposal tomorrow. Secondly, Ahmet Turan Kılıç... as I know, is written in the pardon clause of the Constitution. The President will act objectively. He leaves 50 people to die in prison in 2019. While he should consider the current case as a type of crime, blind and deaf to the origin of the criminal, he considers the authority to be a particulate. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It is not the President of the Republic of Turkey, who pardons Ahmet Turan Kılıç, who forgives this crime of humanity, who infects him with the work of Madimak. He is the President of the Justice and Development Party. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0059par0296	Dear Oluç...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0060par0298	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I'd like to make a brief point of two matters. One is the issue of the President's use of the Constitution's authority on Article 104. Look, we've been saying this every chance we get for three years... in this House, on the stand, on the commissions. For three years, I'll tell you why. According to the data of the IHD, 1,334 patients are currently under arrest and convicted. Forty-five hundred and fifty people have died in prisons in the last three years, so 50 people have lost their lives without even seeing their families, some in the hospital, some in prison. Now, the President has a mandate according to Article 104 of the Constitution, but the President uses it entirely according to his political preferences, according to his political preferences.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0061par0302	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0060par0303	So the President isn't human and conscientious, he's political. That's what his latest act shows. Let's say it one more time, and we'll keep saying it. Our problem is that the patient in prison is completely human and conscientious about prisoners and prisoners. It's wrong that it's a matter of political debate and polemics. Once again, there are 457 serious patients, including people who need to be released immediately. If the President claims to be conscientious and human about it, if he claims to be sincere, he should be able to handle it, but our belief is that he's making decisions based on his political preferences. The second thing I want to talk about -- the other Group Vice Presidents said -- is that we've submitted several research motions to the political...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0061par0306	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0060par0307	We've submitted research motions concerning the investigation of ا's political foot and these motions have been rejected with the votes of the Justice and Development Party at each time. Now, we say this all the time; it's the Clave that needs to be investigated and discussed. Why is it Parliament? From the judiciary to the army, from education to all the ministries, people were found in all the institutions, who were suspended from their duties, without any provisions, but couldn't find a political foot, and the only place where the political foot can be discussed, is the National Assembly. If political parties are here, then political feet are here. So, if the Justice and Development Party are sincere about this, then we're ready to support whatever party they bring to the motion on this issue -- to support... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's my last word, sir. Let us once again stress that we are ready to take and support whatever party he brings in to support the motion and to take every step to investigate the political foot of ▪. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0062par0313	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0063par0315	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, first of all, anyone of the President's appreciation for the Constitution of Article 104 will be able to make different approaches, but I would like to say that we absolutely reject the approach to his person. Everyone in this matter must speak in the constitutional framework and in the courtesy of the work; one. Secondly, does the matter of the meeting and talking of the family necessarily depend on the research commission?
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0064par0318	On every floor, you say.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0063par0319	On every floor... The research commission has been established before, established, worked for three months.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0064par0321	It wasn't built on that.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0065par0322	It's done early.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0063par0323	Look, jurisdiction is being used by the courts on behalf of the state of the Republic of Turkey and on behalf of the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0066par0324	It's called political foot.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0063par0325	Mr. Kilicdaroglu was specifically talking about the list of hani by Locks, where there are by Locks from 120 to 180 lawmakers. If anyone has any documents, whatever information they have, let them go all the way to the end, whoever has the political foot of independent and impartial justice. There's no hesitation about it. Dear friends, I'd also like to point out that there's a difference between two things. Now, what came up? While a law was being discussed here in 2009, the relevant members of parliament at the time, members of the group, friends of the group, made a motion to discuss the matter with each other, and the motion was adopted by the great will of the Assembly.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0067par0328	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0063par0329	We never, never question and question any of the questions at the point of parliament's acceptance of this motion in terms of legislature activity, one, we would never, in this regard, accept disrespect for the will of lawmakers on the floor. However, we have demonstrated that we are ready to argue on every basis, at the beginning of the screens, at all times, at all times, at all times. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In the end, it is a fact that our government is carrying out the fight in both political and commercial areas, especially as of 2013 and later July 15, 2016, as a terrorist organization clearly as part of the decisions made by our government by the National Security Council. In this regard, all sorts of information about this matter, in light of the document, we've made it known to us, and we've done it, and we're doing it, and I hope you'll have to do it. Mr. Kilicdaroglu, of course, stated at last week's group meeting that he would make a statement about political feet at today's group meeting, but left the issue next week.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0067par0333	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0063par0334	Hopefully, I'd like to show you that whatever you guys put out there, you're going to get all the help you can get from us to the end of the political leg, but we're not going to argue about... I also declare who is the political foot, what kind of approach is being taken within the ground of a meeting with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and I declare that we are ready to make a fair decision. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0067par0336	Our esteemed Vice Presidents, as far as I'm concerned, they've all told us about themselves. Let's move on to the agenda.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0068par0338	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0067par0339	Yes, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0069par0340	This is very important, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0067par0341	Thank you for warning me.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0070par0343	I'd like to thank my colleague for his heated speech, but his testimony is not satisfactory to me. So if you mean the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not a graduate of this debate, it is not possible for me to accept it as a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Deputy Group of a political party. Besides, I'm not concerned about the MPs who submitted the motion and the Deputy Directors of the Group. What we, as a good party, are wondering is that those two groups are the ones who put the motion into the hands of the Vice President; they're the political foot, and I think it needs to be understood correctly. The law has no authority in this area. I regret to inform you that I do not find your approach well. Let the judge take care of it. [[The microphone was turned off by the automatic device.]] Some of the decisions the judiciary has made, Mr. President, I couldn't get behind the microphone and say, "I don't understand." Therefore, in a society where the sense of justice has been damaged, I urge you to raise your respect for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is making the law, with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0067par0347	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0071par0349	Mr. President, I was a member of the Prison Review and Surveillance Commission when I first served in Congress, a member of my party's relevant Commission. We wrote a book called "The Ballroom Kumba. " I've had enough of the AK PARTY group because I said "babble conspiracy" on the stand. You're the puncher! You're the one who wrote the book for the fighters. Six months later, the AK PARTI's Deputy Prime Minister at the time, he said, "They set up the national army." Now, in 2013-2014, you are the shameless one who wrote a book for the attackers! They shamelessly embraced the argument, the argument that the national army had been framed. [[The microphone was turned off by the automatic device.]] In 2009, in the middle of the night, groups of letters and puns tried to be deceived and never supported their motion to judge soldiers in civil court. Because he's taken the civil courts, where he's making Ergenekon, and he's obsessed with the country's Chief of Staff. He spoke to the Chief of Staff -- many times in prison -- and I was with Ilker Pasha -- and he said to me, "This is my headquarters, Silivri. I wouldn't say anything against my government, but a congregation has taken over the state, brought in the law, passed it as it pleases. In those days, Ilker Pasha would be offended if we wrote it in our reports. I'm the Chief of Staff, he said.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0067par0353	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0071par0354	But while the political foot of the country was so flawed, one month before the July 15 coup, one month before the indictment, on June 6th, he had the power to get the legislature to propose and accept the legal amendments he wanted. To hold on to that motion here, not to put that motion into Parliament's will...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0067par0356	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0071par0357	With that motion, by finding the way of the Fetullah Gulen congregation in some way -- the political foot that you're looking for, if you move forward -- is there -- they've succeeded in getting your Group Vice Presidents to sign the motion: The prosecutor writes in the indictment, the court accepts the indictment; he enters the Armed Forces at the time of power; he says that in those days, the removal of the Ataturkci, republican, national elements was the result of opening the way for the colonels. The signature made on that motion is not accepted today, it's searched, it's ashamed, it's silenced, it's apologized. That's all I'm saying!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0072par0359	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0067par0360	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0072par0362	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Of course, no one should twist words, words. First, once, what you've been told, what you've been told, you have to make an assessment of what you've been told. By twisting unsaid words, by setting up a statement as a matuf to its own purpose, it can only be an expression of weakness, and I'd like to put it out there, it's a twist, and no one should be tempted to twist it. Secondly, we came to fight the custody centers; we fought really hard on the democratisation of Turkey, the establishment of the rule of law. As a result, the legal provisions in this matter are a different form of law enforcement that needs to be talked about for another period of time.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0073par0366	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0072par0367	To this end, it's a whole different place to try to get political rants from there and give different messages, in relation to this, to other purposes other than another pair of scissors. In the end, I want to make it clear that the AK PARTY is the one that makes the fight against ▪ in the state, dear friends. It's an organization that has come to this day since the 60s. With the resolution of the National Security Council's betrayal of state and nation revealed, a real struggle has been waged, but the EC PARTI, which initiated this struggle, has begun to be compressed by some political structures, and the EC PARTI has begun to rise above its statements.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0073par0370	Let's wrap this up, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0072par0371	In fact, this is a way of fighting. However, those who run into themselves, those who run away from the PKK, must truly turn to themselves and do so. As a result, we will have a long talk in the days to come about the political foot of the Å. I have just expressed the necessary words of this matter in my own context, and I would like to submit this matter to the will of the High Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0073par0373	Gathering, please, Mr. Dervisoglu, please.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0074par0375	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My dear colleague, you run the state, of course you will fight, but you will not ignore our hope that your struggle is sufficient. We've always cared and appreciated your struggle with custody centers, your struggle against the powerful in the past, since the late Necmettin Erbakan Hodja. But here's the thing, you're talking about a leak to the government. You made it look as if they hadn't infiltrated the government and the government had infiltrated where they came from. I think this needs to be fixed. Now, there are reports of MITs on this issue, opposition statements made during the Supreme Military Police decisions.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0073par0378	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0074par0379	I want to end this so that I don't make it a source of internal politics and upset you any more, or put you in a difficult position. The General Assembly also has important agendas. But I find it helpful to make it clear that we can't possibly accept some of the veiled statements you've made about us. If you try to accuse us of being with any illegal organization, it's not up to us, it's not up to the claims. I salute the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0075par0382	Mr. Ozgur, if you don't mind, you won't get a word in after you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0076par0384	He's not coming out because I'm going to suggest a book. Let's change the subject. I have a book proposal, author of the book Omar Dinçer; why is it so difficult to change in Turkey? The book covers Omar Dinçer's term as Prime Minister and boasts of his digital transformation. This is exactly what it says in that book: In 2004, the soldiers placed an MGK report in front of us that the Fetullah Gulen congregation is preparing to take over the state, to strengthen its major organs, especially to strengthen its armed forces. This report was discussed at the National Security Council, and it's settled. However, I, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, took responsibility for the lack of the distribution of the state to the ministries and other institutions.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0075par0387	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0076par0388	Now, the gentleman here says that after we decided that this organization was a dangerous organization on the National Security Council... it's a lie, a lie, a lie. You made that decision at the National Security Council in 2004, and that decision was made. Regarding this decision, this determination could be shown 13 years earlier in the state, while Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who was the chief bureaucratic officer, was Omar Dinçer, who later served as minister at your party, received the ISBN number of the person who is still a member of your party, which is clearly confessed in his book, which contains an example in the National Library. I suggest you read the book. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0075par0391	That's my last word on that, my friend. Don't let him have a say on the other side. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0077par0394	Okay. Thank you, Mr. President, thank you very much. It is now started after the history of the National Security Council. There is no promise.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0078par0397	That's what you just said.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0077par0398	No, no, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0078par0399	You just said that.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0077par0400	You're always twisting it.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0078par0401	Are you going to apologize if I find the statement?
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0077par0402	You're twisting... you're twisting...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0078par0403	I want a report.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0077par0404	Let's look at the report together. I want the transcripts, too.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0079par0405	Mr. Akbasoglu, please state your thoughts.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0077par0406	Not after that; after that and before that. There's a school thing, a February 7, 2012 MIT crisis. The result is 2009-2010. Look, at this time, the AK PARTY put up the fight. December 17th, 25th, 2013, right? As a result, this struggle was determined before and after the National Security Council decision. What's the matter?
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0080par0410	It's been told many times.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0077par0411	I'm finishing.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0081par0412	We're screwed, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0080par0413	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0077par0414	Since the 1960s...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0080par0415	Yeah, they've been told, they've been told.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0082par0416	Don't bother the council, we'll discuss it alone on TV, and I'll invite you to come on TV.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0077par0417	...the fight against this organization that has infiltrated the state, we, together with the understanding that this organization, this structure, is a terrorist organization, and we have put up the fight.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0080par0418	Copy that.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0082par0419	Let's discuss this on TV.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0083par0420	Oh, shame on you!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0084par0421	While we were struggling, however, some political parties demonstrated the approach to using ▪'s arguments in the approach that expressed their intentions with the muslims.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0085par0422	All right, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0084par0423	That is a great loss. As a result, we should be fighting together to bring the country safely back to its goals of 2023, 2053 and 2071, but unfortunately, we are faced with an approach to the trap of terror counsel. It's pathetic.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit01spe0085par0425	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Akbasoglu. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. THE Good PARTI Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and processed, and I shall submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday/2/2020 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Izmir MP and ICI PARTI Deputy President Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu have been suggested that talks should be met in a joint union Tuesday (May 4/2/20) with Turkey's state and Syria's Syrian regime, in order to discuss our national security issues. There is a motion for the group proposal to be held in closed session according to Article 70 of the Civil Code. I'm reading the motion for closed session: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 4/2/2020 (today) I propose and propose that our group proposal, which is part of the President's General Assembly's Presentation, be held in closed session under Article 70 of the Civil Code. 4/2/2020 The audience and the officials who are not members of the General Assembly, who can be present at the closed session, must go outside. I'd like to ask the Directors to ensure that the hall is cleared. I submit to your votes that sworn stenographers and other sworn officers will remain in the hall: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger to evacuate the hall.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0085par0001	I am opening the Third Session of the 51st Assembly of Turkey's Grand National Assembly after the closed session. We're starting negotiations on the good party proposal. To explain the reason for the motion, I promise Mr. Aytun Çiray. Here you go, Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0086par0009	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you with love and respect. The Turkish nation expects answers to many questions about what happened with Idlib. Has Mr. Erdogan given up on the Sochi Covenant, which gives legitimacy to the Russians' current moves in the field? If he did, how is he going to talk about it in a time when he put the whole world in front of him? Dear friends, from the west of Tel Abyad to the east of Efiayn, a safe area was created by a distance of about 30km [30 km], but Trump was left to dry, unfortunately, with the Pneum for Peace. Turkish Armed Forces had to abandon operations before they could reach the target, due to the obstructions of Putin and Trump. We have not been given control of the M4 road south of the secure zone, where the Justice and Development Party administration is formed by Operation Peace Fountain. The M4 road is the strategic road of the YPG. This fact has been hidden from the Turkish nation, which means it could not be isolated by Operation YPG Peace Fountain. The Syrian Democratic Forces still control 80 per cent of Syria's production of oil and natural gas and 11 out of 20 oil wells in this region. I regret to inform you that Operation Fountain of Peace has failed to prevent the YPG (YPG) from reaching the most important supply routes of revenue-making resources. Congressmans, let's take a look at Operation Firat Shield. The U.S.A. prevented the SOO we used in the operation from reaching Menbic, a very important settlement in the Syrian war, because Menbic was very important for the weapons and personnel connections of YPGs to the east of Fırat, and to the west of Fırat. The AKP administration in Operation Olive Branch failed to achieve any strategic goals. We stopped the YPG (YPG) from moving west of the Syrian border in a geography near the Mediterranean, but we couldn't get the strategic Tel Rifat district because Putin had blocked it. The YPG/PKK left Afrin (Afrin) with Operation Olive Branch (YPG/PKKK), but they retreated to Tel Rifat to rule here. So the YPG elements continued to exchange logistical support in Menbic and Kobani. With his assets in Tel Rifat, Azez and other regions under Turkish Armed Forces were allowed to fire at any time. That was the beginning of the chain of events that brought Turkey against Russia in Idlib. Idlib is the last place in the region where opponents live with our support. It's our last strategic maneuvering field to build a new game, to complete what's missing. Dear friends, since there is no closed session, not because it is a secret from the nation, but because of the morale of the Turkish army that is currently fighting in the field, I would like to say that I've removed some parts of my speech for now. Members of parliament, the credibility of Mr. Erdoğan and his government is unfortunately on the floor right now. In Sochi, we said we'd take control of the M5 road, so we didn't take it or we didn't take it. Why did we sign the Sochi Agreement if we had to? Our observation towers were surrounded by Syrian soldiers, we called Russia. You say, "It's true, but they didn't give it to you." Based on what? It's for those who know that the winners of the war will make the law. Friends, it's past the time of the eunuchs, the Russian planes are blocking our F-16. From what we've heard, it's the S-400 missiles you're so proud of getting are locked on Turkish planes. Do you think the Assad forces will be able to hit our mobile convoy if the Russians don't give us the coordinates? Congressmans, let's look at the situation we're in: the total debt burden is enormous, the nation is poor, we've fallen from the 17th largest economy to 19, unemployment is disastrous; the Syrians have been driven to our land; the European Union is against us, Iran is against us; indeed, Qatar is not with us now, not even with Palestine. The Navy Command is also observing Crete and shifting power there. For what? Greece's getting itchy, just because Turkey's weak, there's nothing good about it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, let me finish.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0087par0019	Here you go, Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0086par0020	Basically, the fact that the country's eight martyrs today are being talked about in such a hurry, in moments, in such a way that the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the will of the nation, is missing here as well. You know, Libyan politics isn't working out either, there's nothing good about it, but once the mind goes off, call it a reason. Mr. Erdoğan's last trip to Ukraine points to such a loss of reason, especially in Ukraine, we do not recognise the illegal nature of Crimean. Meanwhile, the United States and its supporters in the United States and inside Turkey are flattering Mr. Recep Tayyip so much that we will not accept them as terrorists as long as the Cihadist militia attacks the Syrian army. That's when we're working on the plots where we're being set up. The trap's not outside, it's inside, guys.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0088par0024	Let's wrap this up, Congressman.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0086par0025	So instead of tearing it down, unless we all say it out loud, unless we name the problems, the number of problems that we will face in Turkey and unfortunately the number of martyrs will increase. It became a community of politicians who could not take the measure of anything at the right time, in the right way, in the right way, in the right way, in order to show that skill; this is unsustainable. His own political master has to face that fact first. As a result, Idlib is one of the last heavy blows of an antidiploma that has been deepened and deepened for the last ten years, and we warn you, if you do not give up this politics, it is the beginning of the end. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0088par0028	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, I promise Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş. Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0089par0031	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, yes, we're talking about Idlib, and he's in a really important place, but I can tell you in three minutes how much I can work. Now, we've had a lot of talks in this House about war reviews, but the result is in vain, the war policy continues at full speed. The war was constantly exalted, the concept of war was banned, and the anti-war opponents were seen as enemies. It was called the Storm Shield, it was called the Mountain of Zeytin, it was called Operation Fountain of Peace, and now Idlib is the main agenda. Why? For the sake of power, there is no other reason. He believes that the AKP will have a say in Syria, which will rule the Middle East, and will prevent Kurds from ruling itself along with other peoples. In fact, the position of the AKP in foreign policy is literally this: like the elephant in the crystal store, it's breaking down, pouring out, there's no one who doesn't know it. What did he do? I'm the continuation of the new Ottomans of Ottomanism. This way, since 2011, there's been an effort to get off the table, unfortunately, from the Syrian War, and Syria has literally been a pool of blood since 2011. Syrian asylum seekers are now in Turkey; they're in there with him, and they're on the outside as a threat to him. Not to mention millions of dollars from the European Union. He answers to the West, who criticises Turkey's stance on Syria: "If I open the borders, you'll see." After that, there's no need to tell the ISIS about its support and its causes. The solution is limited, so we need to focus on the solution. Idlib is the center of terrorist organizations. No one can argue otherwise, and, of course, millions of people who have fled the war are involved in Idlib. Syrian policy is certainly not in favour of the people of Turkey, and the soldiers who are now dying are the result of the AKP's imposed policy on its own. This adventure must be abandoned at once. Really, the soldiers need to withdraw immediately. They should never have left. Our view is well - known. Turkey must stop supporting gangs. Even the deaf sultan heard Turkey sell ISIS, Al Qaeda, HTŞ, other elements, solidarity, trade, olives, but when I told him in this Parliament, someone answered.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0090par0037	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0089par0038	What's the solution? The basis for peace with Syria and other countries needs to be returned to politics. We warned you from the start, you didn't listen, but before it's too late, whenever it's turned wrong, it's a profit. Let us end the war in Syria so that at least some of the 4 million refugees have returned home. No more sides in the civil war. I'm saying they can't forget that HTŞ is made of ISIS. Let the dreams of Islamist organizations be put to rest. At the moment, great dreams continue in Afrin. After the invasion of Afrin (Afrin) the immunization process has begun, and I say we must discuss it aloud in the National Assembly, thank you, as everyone in the international world speaks loudly of Turkey's ambitions in Syria.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0090par0041	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I give my word to Mr. Yunus Emre. Here you go, Mr. Emre.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0091par0044	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on behalf of our group at the suggestion of the good party. I salute the General Assembly. A really important suggestion is the recommendation of the GOOD PARTY, a general discussion proposal. When you look at the text, we're dealing with some very important, key, key words: our country's exposure to conscious mass migration; the development of a national policy, a common attitude; the aim of our national entity, the security of our nation, as well as the issue of this matter directly related. I really don't understand why the House would reject such a proposal, a general debate, in the face of such important themes. I hope, when the vote is passed, this general debate motion will be passed by the vote of lawmakers of the EC PARTY. Dear friends, of course, we've told them many times about Syria, about the wrongs of the AK PARTY authorities. Today, I won't be interested in these things, I won't dwell on them in a very limited time; I want to explain: Look, we want Congress to be effective in foreign policy, we want it to be strong. I am not interested in foreign policy, brother, I am not interested in the problems of foreign policy. If Parliament says so, then it will be a scene of shame for Turkey in the 21st century. Dear friends, how will Parliament deal with foreign policy, how will Parliament have control over foreign policy, how will it affect it? For example, for instance, the Foreign Affairs Commission, the National Defence Commission, the Security and Intelligence Commission must be able to work very actively, to perform audit functions. We're a long way from that. In many cases, in many countries, as in democratic countries, parliament should have a say in spending on foreign policy spending, as an organ that holds the mouth of the pouch during the budget, needs to make changes. Again, in many democratic examples, I would like to remind you that in terms of arms sales, parliaments related to arms purchases are in a very effective, important position. I want to remind you that in democratic countries, parliaments form special commissions and investigate certain issues. I'd like to remind you that you've summoned interested people, concerned security officers, relevant bureaucrats, and questioned them in the relevant commissions. I'd like to remind you that parliaments have been informed in closed sessions. I'd also like to remind you that lawmakers are effectively informed of their fundamental foreign policy issues. Dear friends, we're going to international meetings, and we're getting information from the relevant departments of Congress. The information we're seeing is just how much the population of that country, how much its area, is limited to that. In particular, it is not possible for the House to have control over foreign policy in these circumstances to have influence. It would be an embarrassment to Turkey in the 21st century, as I have just stated, for lawmakers to reject it with their votes. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0092par0052	Here, wrap it up, Mr. Emre.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0091par0053	My dear friends, we're about to take this vote. As a result of this vote, if you do not approve this issue as a matter of general discussion, we will soon discuss a proposal for changes in geographical information systems and some laws. Guys, this is terrifying. So Turkey's troops are being martyred, we're facing the most comprehensive foreign policy problem, and instead of discussing it, we're going to discuss the proposal for a change in the zoning law. These terrible friends. You can't tell your children that. Look, we also have friends here from the AK PARTI, whom I know very well, one of whom is our Ambassador Ahmet Yıldız. I mean, how are you, as a congressman, going to swallow that when you consider your diplomatic career? I mean, I'm picking on you from here, Mr. Ambassador. Now, Mr. Alpay, is this how you're going to decide when you're wearing the national jersey, when you're taking off the national jersey and wearing the national jersey of the entire country, as a football player, and everyone's proud of it? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0093par0058	Pick it up, brother, by looking at Free Bey.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0091par0059	In short, this is a very critical issue. It's very important that the House hold a general meeting. It's directly related to the tradition of the House, as well as to the House. Therefore, I propose that all lawmakers support this motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0093par0062	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Denizli MP Ahmet Yıldız. Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0094par0065	Mr. President, I'm clearly holding on to my predecessor. He said you'd probably give me an extension. Mr. President, on behalf of our group, I wish our fallen staff mercy, our nation's condolences, our wounded staff immediate healing. I hope the response of our Armed Forces will move Iran and Syria, or the supporters of the armed forces, to be more careful from now on, and to comply with the agreements that have been reached through a dense and sensitive diplomatic process. Unfortunately, sometimes the worst-case scenarios occur in the process of the regime in Syria, which comes from the character of the regime. It's no surprise that for those of you who serve in Syria, or who live in some way, the regime will not recognize any moral, legal, religious, international norms for self-preservation. As a matter of fact, from the four areas declared for stopping conflicts, protecting civilians and facilitating solutions, three of them fell as a result of the regime's sneaky, sometimes open attacks, and those who left were forced to take refuge with Idlib. The president then had contact with Putin and other leaders. The purpose of this was to protect Idlib, to protect civilians and to invent a zone that had been cleared of weapons. Unfortunately, during the time passed, the regime forces continued their attacks with Russia's leniency, and our two observation points were surrounded. This led to the attack by the regime forces, despite the elements of our Armed Forces, which had been sent to our positions near Saraqib County for the facility of calm, although it had been reported to the Russian side two times a day earlier, and it was unfortunate for our martyrs and wounded. With our armed forces, 54 targets have been fired and estimated 76 regime elements have been neutralized. After this incident, our Foreign Minister and our relevant diplomat friends met with Russian contacts to keep the regime under control. Now, are we caught off guard? I don't think so. And I know that because I'm a non-manager, under the Astana and Sochi Covenant, any diplomatic and military measures are being taken to prevent a ceasefire in Idlib, to ensure the safety of our troops, to protect civilians, and to prevent a wave of migration to our borders. Yes, we do not find it necessary and beneficial to open a general discussion on this matter.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0095par0071	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0094par0072	Let me put it this way: Maybe it's right to make an evaluation based on 2015. That year, both the U.S. and the U.S. began working with the YPG (YPG) and the arrival of Russia (Russia) have been provided for our country to take part in the field through diplomatic and military sensitive processes that have been under way since then. It's not that he's asking for a solution anymore, it's that he's got to be an actor there. This shows that the process was carried out with precision, that the balance of power was maintained, that the intelligence was taken and evaluated on time. As a matter of fact, the fact that the hall of terror is divided and prevented is the greatest gain for our country. This shows the maturity and maturity of conduct in this regard. Therefore, we don't find it necessary and useful to open a general discussion, even though we understand some concerns about this until there is a different, more important development. My regards to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0095par0075	I submit the proposal to your votes: There's a conflict between the clerks, I'll vote electronically.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0096par0078	No, no, no! Mr. President, how is there a conflict... without those who don't agree? Only those who agree... asked. Sir, the ones who didn't agree didn't count.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0095par0079	Mr. Free, count our friends.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0096par0080	Sir, the error of procedure is now... how do you know?
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0095par0081	Those who don't agree... I'm voting electronically because there's no consensus among the clerks. I'll give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The proposal was not accepted. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday/2/2020 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. On 4 February 2020, Batman MP Necdet İpekım and his friends proposed that the proposal for parliamentary research given to the Turkish Parliament in order to investigate the structural and political causes of the negative picture presented in the economy 5209 rows would be met on Tuesday (May 4/2/2020). On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, I pledge Mr. Ridvan Turan. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0097par0099	Mr. President, I salute you with all due respect, our esteemed representatives and our dear people on the screen. Right now, the reasons for the economic crisis, the consequences it has created, and how to prevent it... [[Whistling]] Mayor, there's too much noise.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0098par0103	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's hear it. There's a big hum. Any of you who wish to speak, please go backstage, Councillors. Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0097par0105	Dear friends, economic crisis, economic problems have gained structural identity in Turkey. On the one hand, we face an extraordinary foreign debt, high current, a political conjuncture, which is impossible to get out of when we consider the point of unemployment, poverty, and the injustice of the revenue distribution, which is actually quite difficult to get out of, when the government's data policies continue. In fact, in crises, there's been a little or a lot of randomness, but the crisis conjunctura that we're in, without any randomness, has shouted out, with the wrong economic policies of the AKP's power, it's been crafted so far from 2002, it's touched with great skill. In fact, the 2002 period was a period when the crisis was significantly out of control and the financial expansion dominated the world as of 2008. In the meantime, around $600 billion was entered into Turkey, but the amount of money that went into it, as a result, was distributed into large public investments, especially through the creation of a position close to the AKP's government and the palace's own status, so to speak, has been flustered. Instead of investing in science, technology, education, areas that make value, they were invested in cement, concrete, double roads. As a result, what we're dealing with is that the government has implemented the wrong capital savings model so far, and this capital buildup model based on high foreign debt and current deficits has now hit the rock. This is the main cause of the economic crisis in Turkey, no doubt, but another matter as important as this is that we have unfortunately faced a very serious lack of democracy in Turkey. Especially with that freakic system of government called the presidency, the fact that everything is gathering in one person, that Erdogan has placed himself in the entire decision-making authority, that he should be independent or autonomous, that Erdogan, if so-called, should be turned into an administrator -- such as the Central Bank's example, so what comes out as a result is that international capital is never, never, ever trusted -- is an economy that operates within the framework of power. I knew it wouldn't. Again, one of the other things we should have talked about in this bet is that instead of Turkey's most fundamental and most important issue of Kurdish problem being resolved by a democratic and political way and method, the government's decision to establish war policies, not only in the Kurdish issue, but in its approach towards all foreign policy, all of them -- the problem of Syria -- an occupying political language, a warrior political language, and another part of the economic crisis has been shaped as a result of the militant policies. So when the war policies were shrinking the poor's bread, this idea of giving 15 percent increase to minimum wage was neither ashamed nor embarrassed by political morality, when a number of warlords close to power, the drones, the SIHA, the people who built the drones, the ones who said they were going to make ALTAY tanks, the ones who couldn't find the engines. Now, inflation may not have been reduced by the usual measures, but TİK has found a good way to reduce inflation. As inflation was calculated, inflation was reduced by reducing the weight of basic issues such as food, transportation, clothing, and rent.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0099par0109	Here, round it up, Congressman.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0097par0110	So in fact, with math games, it's made it look like something that didn't happen. In fact, it's called cheating, it's called lying politically, and it's an informal attitude. So with the ruling bloc's votes, which are not inclined to discuss anything, we bring one more question before the Parliament, which, in particular, sees it unnecessary, and has no argument about finding a solution. This is the problem, the TÜİK (TÜİK) (TÜİK) (TÜİK) (TÜİK) (TİK) (TÜİK) (TÜİK) (TÜİK) (TÜİK) (TÜİK) (TÜİK) (TİK) (TİK) (TÜİK) (TÜVİK) is the problem in front of parliament, for example, in a political conjuncture where power increases by 50 per cent and therefore, our people are retreating from using natural gas, for example, there is another problem in front of parliament. If this Parliament is going to investigate this issue, develop measures to resolve this matter, then, yes, it is indeed a Parliament. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll finish right away, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0099par0113	Go ahead.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0097par0114	But if this is to be suppressed by the MPs' methods or by the majority of the vote here, dear friends will have lost the power to become a parliament if it will not carry out the leadership of Parliament in the matter that has hurt the people the most, then I am very sorry to say so. Therefore, it has become a necessity for further investigation, discussion, and discussion of solutions. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0099par0117	İstanbul MP İşktin Nuhoğlu on behalf of the GOOD PARTY Group. Here you are, Mr. Noahoglu.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0100par0120	Mr. President, I have been promised a motion to investigate the economic crisis. I'll start by offering my regards. Without a doubt, our country's most important problem is economic boredom, unemployment, and the difficulty of living. It is often prevented by the power by creating artificial agendas to discuss these issues as much as necessary. For a long time, private-trained speakers have been occupying all television channels telling the truth of what power has done. The agenda includes technological developments such as economic pink paintings, electric cars, especially Canal Istanbul. Some of the facts, such as earthquake and Idlib, have gone off the agenda for now, but the mistakes are still going on there. 1/100 after the CED report. The plans for the 000-alarm revision were also put on hold. We've made our objection. In this regard, we will continue to criticize until it is announced that the Kanal İstanbul has been abandoned as long as we have the opportunity. The real agenda is poverty, hardship for a living, unemployment and economic straitlock. The following consumption economy model can't change the bad course of basic economic indicators. There's no government statement, no zeal, no confidence that's appropriate for new investments on the way to becoming a productive economic model. We think the most important reason for the economic crisis is the incompetence of those who run the economy. So the first step to the solution is a total change in economic management. If that happens, economic policies can also change. If the change is not made, the Turkish nation will change power altogether in the first election. Dear lawmakers, I regret to see this administration do wrong to lose after the local elections and seek revenge. Speaking of which, I'd like to mention an application in Istanbul. A place called "Cırçir Forest" was assigned to the Businessmen and Bureaucrats Association of Tripoli ten years ago. This association is the roof association that gives scholarships to many university students each year and contributes to their education, providing non-profit, social responsibility activities, especially for young people from Tripoli to be together in Istanbul. I would also like to point out that he was not involved in any political activities, and that there were several AKP members among his members.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0101par0126	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0100par0127	This forest area, called Trabzon Park, has been spent around $30m and has been turned into a service for the public. The vote fell in the March 31st elections in Umraniye, and in the June 23rd elections, when the vote went further, the desire for revenge grew. Among those responsible for losing the election are the administration and members of the Tripolin Businessmen and Bureaucrats Association, and they want to be punished. The rent has been paid in full for ten years, and has the right to use it for 19 more years. The same is the request of the Umranites and of the Istanbulites, and of the Tripolins, especially of Istanbul. In this direction, I expect the practice to continue by correcting the error, with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0101par0130	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I promise Mr. Emine Gülizar Emecan. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0102par0133	Thank you. Mr. President, the Honorable Council, first of all, I salute you all. We're talking about the economy, but before we get to the point, I ask God's mercy on our martyrs and his people's patience, and my condolences on the loss of our nation. Yeah, we're talking about the economy. It's not enough to talk about the economic problem in our country alone, it's not enough to assess it alone, because when we look at it, the collapse of the legal system in the country, the failure of people to feel free, the lack of confidence in the law, the lack of integrity of staffing in institutions, all of that -- we can actually add a lot of other things -- with its economic exhaustion. In fact, we see that the new system doesn't work either. I'd like to make a brief point about what this total collapse is worth in society. When we look at the data from the SEC and the Ministry of Health, we see that social depression is increasing and spreading. In just 2018, 40 million cans of antidepressants were used in Turkey, which is one of the two people using antidepressants. In 2019, this was in 42 million boxes. Actually, it's down to 13-14-year-olds. Dear friends, these numbers are a reflection of the collapse of society. Society is going through a serious collapse, and in the face of this economic exhaustion -- we're talking about the actual consequences -- what is the power of the EC PARTI doing in power? But -- we're going to talk about the earthquake later -- the earthquake taxes, the money collected for the martyrs, the profits of the Central Bank, our reserve flow, and the money in various funds, unfortunately -- whatever there is, the unemployment fund -- is spending, but it's not enough -- valuable friends are playing with the data; they're playing with the inflation figures, they're playing with the products in the inflation basket. But society can no longer be fooled by them, society is aware of everything. We can see that this whole situation isn't covered up. Turkey is a valued country of OECD, where food inflation peaked in 2018. You raise taxes, which is not enough because people can't spend. With 7 million unemployed, 3 million young people out of work, what do these kids, what do these people earn, what do they spend, how do you raise spending, how do you collect taxes? A rise in natural gas, a rise in bridges, a rise in tunnels, electricity... none of it enough, friends, the black hole is too big, and unfortunately the system is rotten, it's collapsed. What have we been talking about for days? We're talking about how the President of the Republic of Kızılay missed taxes, how he committed a tax evasion charge, and how he opened up a way to transfer money over himself to the foundations associated with harassment, rape. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm packing.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0103par0142	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0102par0143	So now that this system is down, we really have to talk about this, the black hole is huge, our total debt supply is $447 billion, and we have a $139 billion budget deficit in 2020. It seems you're taking the economy to the brink with the new system, so let's all give up this wrong course together. If reforms in the economy are done together with investment-oriented social and political reforms, there is a good chance it will succeed; come, let's do this together. Therefore, let's support the establishment of this proposed research commission, which is thought to be based on the detection of fundamental problems. We find it appropriate, and we leave it to you. I salute the General Assembly, thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0104par0147	On behalf of the Justice and Development Group, Giresun MP Cemal Özturk will speak. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0105par0150	Mr. President, I have been promised a motion by the People's Democratic Party Group to investigate Congress. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation, who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. I pray for the blessings of our fallen brothers and sisters of God, and for their families, and for our beloved nation, and for our patience. Congressmans, of course, the title of the motion is the economic crisis. Unfortunately, there's been a crisis lobby in our country for years, the crisis, the crisis, the crisis, the crisis, but it can't cause a crisis, thank God. Look, TÜİK data was released today, and Turkey's population increased by around 1 million people on 31 December 2019, and we reached 83 million 144,000 people. When the AK PARTI came to power, the population was around 65 million -- I can't give the address a healthy number because it doesn't have a Dayan Population System -- but from that day on, it's clear that 17 to 18 million people have joined our population. Of course, the opposition is a democratic right, but even though the crisis arises and we take advantage of it, it's a very wrong understanding, as if I burn down my neighbor's house and cook my eggs, it's not a democratic approach.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0106par0154	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0105par0155	Of course, there was a history of crises in Turkey. Remember the last quarter of a century ago: 1994 economic crisis, 1997, 1999 and the last 2001 crises, Turkey had a major crisis in 2001. Of course, the world is now a global market. There's a famous theory of chaos, what does the author say? If a butterfly flaps its wings in the Amazonian forests, a great storm will break in Europe and America. We all know how much the world economy was affected by the recent incident of the Corona virus in China. Dear MPs, of course, we respect this motion, the motion to investigate, but it mentions a crisis in Turkey. According to the latest economic data, that's never been in question.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0107par0157	So you don't have it or you don't have it?
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0105par0158	All institutions at work, our government at work.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0107par0159	60 percent natural gas increase, 60 percent.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0105par0160	Despite the speculative attack on 2018, Turkey's economy continues to grow.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0107par0161	$6.6.6. No crisis?
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0105par0162	Yes, that's true, there's been a lot of negative activity in 2019, but recent developments are in the direction of the positive.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0107par0163	There are 8 million unemployed. So there's no crisis?
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0108par0164	What do you mean? You're giving a 56% increase to Eurasia, the recent developments are positive......... how do you explain 56 percent if you're positive?
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0109par0166	Here, wrap it up, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0110par0167	The leading indicators for the fourth quarter of 2019 show that improvements in Turkey's economy continue.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0108par0168	How do you explain 56 percent if it's positive? I want to understand.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0111par0169	Where's it healed? Companies are sinking, going bankrupt, declaring a concordato.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0110par0170	In the last quarter of 2019, the annual GDP grew by 5%, and data across the year 2019 show that our economy will continue to grow positively despite all the difficulties.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0108par0171	Bulgaria has passed us, Bulgaria!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0111par0172	8 million unemployed, 8 million.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0108par0173	How do you explain 56 percent, 56 percent?
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0112par0174	I respectfully salute the General Assembly, stating that we are against this motion and that we will vote against it.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0108par0176	We salute, too. Everything's fine, 56 percent... great! It can be described so beautifully!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0113par0178	Sir, no promises, nothing, we'll take a vote.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0114par0179	We can't get in, the system...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0113par0180	Yeah, that's tactical. Sir, let's take a vote.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0115par0182	Kubat wants a word. He said.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0113par0183	No, sir.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0115par0184	I submit the proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0113par0185	Yes.....
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0116par0186	It's very clear, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0115par0187	Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0116par0188	Mr. President, it's very clear, it's accepted.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0115par0189	Sustained. [[A round of applause from HDP, CHP and GOOD PARTY]] Unaccepted, sorry, gentlemen, unacceptable. I'm sorry, gentlemen, it's not accepted.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0117par0193	Mr. President, God is telling the truth.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0115par0194	The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday/2/2020 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. Elaziğ MP Gürsel Erol and his friends have proposed a parliamentary survey of Turkey's Parliament on 3/2/20, in order to assess the victims and expectations of citizens' lives and property losses caused by the earthquake in Elazıg, in order to repair the economic, social, cultural and commercial damage done to them. lu) has been proposed to take their talks ahead of other proposals and to meet on Tuesday (June 4/2/2020). On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I promise Mr. Gürsel Erol. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0118par0208	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, on behalf of the people of Elazig, I salute you with love and respect. Today, in our Parliament, the government is a unconditional nation. I bring a request, a request, a request from the people of Elazig, to the agenda of the House. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I begin to speak, first, I pray for God's mercy on our martyrs who died in Idlib. I strongly condemn all these treacherous hands that reach out to every member of our Turkish Armed Forces -- whoever they reach out to, whether the Syrian regime or terrorist organizations -- all of them. In the same way, I ask God's mercy to our 41 citizens who lost their lives after the earthquake in Malatya and Elazig. On the night of the earthquake, the state was in Elazig. Who's the government? The state is our 82 million citizens. 81 counties, 82 million citizens, our government, all the heads of political parties, regardless of the political party, all the mayors, MPs, public institutions, the gendarmes, the Police, everyone was in Elazığ. That night, the pain of Elazığ put 82 million of our citizens together in Turkey and made them partners in suffering. Now, Elizýg really survived a disaster, a disaster. Indeed, even though we are thankful for the state of Elazýg (Elizýg) today because of the violence of an earthquake of 6.8 magnitude, there is a new disaster waiting for Elazıg. What is this disaster? Look, since day one, the government has really assigned three ministers there -- the Home Secretary, Minister of Environment and Urbanism, the Minister of Health. The governor was there, all the mayors were there. Indiscriminately, five of the five members of our province were on the streets. Really, we've all tried to give them all the human contribution we could to ease the pain of the citizen, to be hope, and invite people to calm down. The state is here, don't be afraid. We said, "The state won't leave you out in the open." The government won't leave you helpless. The state will not ignore the victimization of your children. No neglect. There may be complications, there may be shortcomings, but there's no neglect. Now we're getting to the point. I mean, what is the risk of Elızýg (Elazig) having a second disaster? Congressmans, I'm not going to give you a political speech, I'm going to give you a human and conscientious speech, and please, when you're making this decision, when you're deciding to form a research commission, look at your children's faces when you go home, and you're going to decide that they're depressed in that earthquake area, that they're sleeping in their homes, that they're sleeping in tents, that they're standing by the fire -- those children, those desperate parents. It's not a political request. We have a chance to show together in this House today that the kingdom is unconditional and unconditional. [[Applause from CHP rows]] What is our request? Our request has been declared an area of impact on general life in Elazig, No. 7269. According to the Law, but it is not enough; it must be declared a disaster - exposed territory. So in the public language, the expression used amongst the people must be declared in the region of the disaster. That's not enough on your own. In the past, there is an example of our state as a father and a father to a citizen: the Erzincan earthquake. Under the decision of the Council of Ministers -- President Turgut Özal, Prime Minister Süleyman Demirel -- after the earthquake, this region was declared a disaster-inflicted zone, and after that, because this law was inadequate, there were laws and additional laws of 3838, which had been issued, he said: "I am my state, you are my citizen. I will fulfill my responsibilities to you with the responsibility of being a state of social law, and he has solved them. Now, what is our demand? Look, if disaster zones are declared, additional laws are passed... the citizens have demands and expectations. His hand is back from disaster. There are 4,000 homes that are now doomed to destruction and destruction has begun. If this earthquake had lasted ten more seconds, believe me, there would have been 100,000 deaths, God protected us. 4,000 buildings now, no villages yet. These are buildings, not housing. If there were 10 apartments in each building, 40,000 dwellings, 3 people living in each house, 120,000 victims, shame, sin. Come and see them there, and see what conditions and circumstances they live in -- in front of the fire, in front of the fire.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0119par0219	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0118par0220	This earthquake struck the poor poor again, like everything else, and the poor are on the street, helpless, desperate. It's our political and moral responsibility to hope for them, to be the cure. Look, there's a citizen's expectation of houses that have been destroyed. He thinks that the state will destroy my house, but will build me a house instead. True, the state will destroy it, but when it has built a new house, it will lend it to the citizen. That's not true, that's not true. We have a 14-point motion on this, and we have an offer, and I don't want to go into detail. In the past, the Parliament succeeded in the Marmara earthquake, established a commission in the Marmara earthquake on 17/2/2/2000 to investigate the results of this Mariana earthquake, and the Commission conducted its reviews and submitted it as a report to the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Now this is what I ask of you: let the commission be established, and let the people hear, and let us make law in this House, whatever the people demand, whatever they ask. I say we don't destroy a city's hope, its future, the children's dream. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As I give you all love and respect, I would like to express in particular that we do not take the burden of the poor, nor do we cause the bread of the poor, nor do we cause the house of the poor. I need backup from all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0120par0226	Mr. Bedri Yaşar, MP of Samsun on behalf of the Good PARTY Group. Here you go, Mr. Yasar.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0121par0229	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. The Syrian army attacked our elements of the Turkish Armed Forces in Idlib, which killed seven of our soldiers and one of our civil servants. Nine of our personnel were injured in the attack.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0122par0233	Earthquake, earthquake! Shame, shame!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0121par0234	I ask God's mercy on our martyrs, and for our wounded, and for the speedy healing of our great nation.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0122par0235	There's a poor poor man in the earthquake. Shame is a sin!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0123par0236	Mr. President, please remain calm.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0124par0237	Wait a minute... Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's rude to the court. I invite everyone to silence. Here you go, Mr. Yasar.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0125par0241	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey has shown the necessary solidarity in the Elazig earthquake, as the minister mentioned earlier.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0126par0243	Tell me the holiday of Imamoglu, Imamoğlu!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0127par0244	There's been an earthquake, and they're still talking.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0125par0245	Dear friends, remember the 1999 earthquake, when there was a serious disaster for Turkey, 18,373 of our citizens lost their lives, 49 thousand wounded, 376,000 damaged buildings. On that day, I was in this Parliament in the 57th government -- sometimes the government says, "What did the government do?" The same day at 5 p.m., the Minister of Agriculture, and the Minister of Agriculture and the Ministry were there, and I was in the earthquake area that day around 2:00 p.m. I'll simply tell you that at 98 points that day there were 49 thousand temporary dwellings. In the same way, around 60,000 earthquake dwellings were built. In addition, after the earthquake, the DASK insurance was removed, so the earthquake insurance was infested. Again, construction control companies were created. And third, the earthquake tax came after that. But the current building, you've kept the earthquake tax uninterrupted. There's nothing we can do about it. After that, today is about earthquake insurance... Look, unfortunately, he says we're coming; he said it in 1999, he said it in Bingol, he said it in Van, he said it in Elazig. I mean, I don't know what else to say to take these precautions. Therefore, there were more than enough permanent dwellings, temporary dwellings, and do so according to the budget of that day. So that day, Turkey's budget was around 50 quadrillion with your numbers, so it was 50 billion. When you look at today's budget, when you express the magnitude of that day and the size of today, we see that the state has no preparation in this passing period of time. What will happen if this earthquake happens in Istanbul? According to some statements, some say that 25,000 buildings are destroyed. Some say that 50,000 are destroyed. Some say that there are hundreds of thousands. So, how ready are we for an earthquake like this? The cheese boat doesn't walk with words. Look, the number of buildings destroyed in the Elazig earthquake is in the middle. Of course, I'll tell you this in advance: We will vote yes to this motion because after the earthquake, all these matters are forgotten. After the earthquake, there are also migrations. We don't want Elazig to emigrate.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0128par0250	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0125par0251	Mr. President, whether our tradesman in Elazıg, our farmer's debt is to be postponed, or if they're to be structured, or erased, I'll tell you this: as Hatibin mentioned, earthquake dwellings are being built -- but these are being credited and delivered to citizens, victims. Instead, I think the government can buy the buildings that were destroyed and give them the housing that was built for free, and that's my suggestion. As a result, this should be investigated. It was also investigated in 2010. He'll be a model, and we'll prepare for the Istanbul earthquake on that model. So you don't have to be a soothsayer to figure that out. Today, all geophysicists, all who are associated with earthquakes, say the earthquake of Istanbul, and you accept it. Come on, let's make our preparations for this now, and I say, let's make Elazig a model for this, support this research proposal, at least on this model, we'll do the necessary work on the Istanbul earthquake and other cities on the fault lines. I wish you luck already. I say we vote yes to this motion.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0129par0256	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, I promise Mr. Mahmut Toğrul. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0130par0259	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I hereby salute the General Assembly, our fellow citizens who are watching us on their screens, and the dear workers of the General Assembly. Congressmans, this is my Turkey earthquake map. When you look here and think about the East Anatolian Fay Line, the Northern Anatolian Fay Line and the Aegean Region, almost an important part of Turkey is actually on risky fault lines. Now, scientists have expressed that Turkey is an earthquake country and that there is a expectation of an earthquake in Elazig, especially by giving a direct address. Look, there have been 165,000 earthquakes in our country since the August 17th earthquake, 165,000. So, now, with this reality, what do we do, what do we do in the preparation dimension? Dear friends, you know, after the August 17th earthquake, a law was passed, in fact, raised over 65 billion dollars to prepare for the earthquake. Does the earthquake of Elazig and the incident in Malatya say that we are taking the necessary precautions? No, he's not. Look, when there are earthquakes in Japan or far beyond this violence in the world, one person's nose is not bleeding, one building isn't falling down, but an earthquake of 6.8 causes us to lose 41 citizens in Elazýgü, hundreds of our citizens are getting injured and hundreds of buildings are falling down, dear friends. Now, scientists are warning us again, dear friends. After this Elazığ earthquake, it is said: "There is a serious energy buildup in Maraş (Adıyaman Lakebaş) in the south, especially in the Pazacık-Türkoğlu line, which begins from Adıyaman Lake, and be careful here. Again, there is a serious energy buildup between Karliova-Bingöl in the north, Karliova-Erzincan in the Karliova-Erzincan. Note here. Again, an earthquake in Istanbul is expressed on every occasion when it comes to footsteps. Now, what we can't say, dear friends: whether it's an earthquake or a fall, let the government or the people go there and offer support. We need to be ready for the earthquake already. So, what does the AKP government do? Look, he's donating zoning to unlicensed and unhealthy buildings. $16 billion totaled, 165 billion came from the Earthquake Fund, which is earthquake taxes, but no one can say how solid our building is right now.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0131par0267	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0130par0268	I'm ending it, Mr. President. So we support this motion, dear friends. We've already offered the law last week at the point of the declaration of Elazig and Malatya, with the signature of Saruhan Oluç, our Deputy Group President. We're calling from here to the Commission: bring this bill to the Commission immediately, bring it to the General Assembly agenda, make it legal. Look, if we don't take precautions right now, we're gonna cry again tomorrow, and we're gonna be sick again. Now, dear friends, this is what earthquake-related institutions do in the example of the Red Moon. The institutions that will prepare for the earthquake, such as Kızılay, the transfer of money to other foundations, other groups, makes it an instrument of tax evasion at the point when AKP is transferred to foundations that it considers a political project. I mean, if we're all living in this country together, we should take precautions together, and I'm paying respects to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0132par0273	In the name of the Justice and Development Party Group, I give you my word to Mr. Atay Kudlu. Here you go, Mr. Nice Guy.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0133par0276	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the CHP's motion on the earthquake that affects the environment of Elaziz and Malatya. I salute your High Council with respect and love. On this occasion, I pray for God's mercy to our heroes who died in the treacherous attack on our Armed Forces in Idlib, and to the wounded with urgent healing. We offer mercy to our citizens who died in the sharp-centered earthquake, and condolences to their relatives; we have wounded, and I wish them a speedy recovery. I'd like to express my views as a supervisor of a property that had experienced one of the previous major earthquakes, the Van earthquake, and was in charge at the time. The CHP has made a motion today, in its motion that we declare the region a disaster zone. The problem was in 2011, and there is one today. The area of disaster is mixed with the concepts of the region, which is exposed to disaster, and the impact on general life. The 2nd and 3rd articles of Law No. 7269 are defined by disaster-inflicted areas. If a location is declared a disaster-inflicted zone, there will be no construction, no residence, no curfew. The whole state of that area is built into zoning, it's determined as a risky area, and there's no more building in that disaster zone or anything like that, so that's where life stops. Therefore, it is certainly wrong in terms of our law and in terms of the situation in which we declare a district or a district exposed to disaster, there is no such thing. But unfortunately, in the 2011 Van earthquake, CHP's President Kemal Kilicdaroglu expressed it, again ten years later, the same terminology. This situation is wrong. Do you know where the afflicted area is declared? There's a flood somewhere, there's an avalanche, or there's another risk, and that area is declared to be an area exposed to disaster, and there's no settlement, there's no law.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0134par0280	There's no such thing, there's no such thing in the law!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0135par0281	Read the law, the law!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0133par0282	There's a lack of information. Friends, let's correct the lack of terminology, not the area that's exposed to the stuff that's supposed to be here.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0134par0283	You don't know the law!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0133par0284	We've done what needs to be done according to disaster law.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0134par0285	Give me the right information, okay, no problem, but give me the right information.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0133par0286	You'll have your opinion in a moment.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0136par0287	Look at the papers, look at the papers! I'll give it to you, read it.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0133par0288	We made the decision to influence general life, and we declared this decision for certain areas of Malatya and Elazig, and after that we did all sorts of work on the earthquake. Look, the first thing to happen in an earthquake is search, rescue, and first aid.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0137par0291	It's about taking it seriously.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0133par0292	This is the success of Turkey, and it is the success of all of us. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) Search rescue activities and the world's fastest response to the earthquake, especially for first aid, have been in an earthquake of the Hand. (AK PARTY) The life is very important. There's no such thing as an intervention in an earthquake faster than that in the world.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0137par0293	Congressman, I'm inviting you to Elazıg. What will the people of Elazig say to you? Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0133par0294	This is the success of all of us. The municipalities were found here, the public institutions were found here. (CHP rows) Friends, you've been here, there's nothing to object to. We all did it together. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Turkey has made a major evolution in disaster and crisis management following the 99-Marmara earthquake.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0137par0297	Too bad, too bad! Don't play with the poor man's life, it's a pity! That's a shame.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0138par0298	Mr. Gürsel...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0137par0299	I'm the most polite congressman, but it's a shame, a pity, a pity!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0138par0300	Congressman, come on in, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0139par0301	Friends, after the Elizig earthquake, we continue our efforts to improve, reduce the impact of the earthquake.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0140par0302	Isn't there a Alazig MP, Elazig MP?
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0139par0303	We build tent cities, we build container cities. The supplies have been delivered to the area. Social services is being provided. The temporary housing centers are being set up. Sugar beets payments have been moved up so that commercial life can take action. Support for agriculture and livestock continues.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0141par0305	Why isn't Elazig MP talking?
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0139par0306	Damage detection continues, ground work continues. It's all being done one step at a time. There have been delays for taxes and insurance payments. The state and the nation are united, we're doing hand-in-hand work, normalizing life, like we did in the Van earthquake, like we did in the past.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0141par0307	Isn't there a Alizýg MP?
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0139par0308	Our ministers were in the region, our government was in the region, our President was there. In a year's time, you won't be able to recognize Elazig, or Malatya, and we'll make them all modern. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0142par0312	Don't you have a Malatian? Why are you talking?
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0143par0313	The MPs are still in the area, in the area.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0144par0314	Sir, if you don't mind, Mr. Akif, according to the Civil Code of 60...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0145par0315	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0146par0318	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, some issues have not been made clear in the minister's speech. According to Article 2 of the Council of Ministers of the Law on Prejudices for Public Life of 1959 and Number 7269, the President is now authorized to declare a disaster-inflicted area. Mr. Orator, there has been a declaration of disaster-inflicted territory in certain areas of Elazig and Malatya." he said.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0147par0321	No, it's wrong.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0146par0322	That's what you said.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0147par0323	That's not a decision.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0146par0324	Sir, that's what you said. I don't know that decision, I didn't read it. Is that a decision that was made, and we didn't know about it, or did people not know about it? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And I don't think there's any such thing. You said something like that.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0148par0327	Mr. Akif, come in.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0146par0328	Yes, I've finished my question, Mr. President. The General Assembly will be informed if Mr. Orator gives us any information on this matter.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0148par0330	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0149par0331	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, of course, the CHP Elazig MP just gave a speech. As a result, he expressed his own opinion, but during the speech of Mr. Atay Besli Bey, who revealed our thoughts on the matter, there was a strange atmosphere to suppress his speech, whatever it was. That's not the right approach. However, I have just asked for a brief explanation of the statements of Mr Hamzacebi. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0150par0335	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0151par0336	Even the system finds it odd that a member of parliament who isn't capable of doing so!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0149par0337	We're all Elizipes, we're all Malatians. Our lawmakers are friends in the earthquake zone now, yes, they're covering the wounds, yes.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0152par0339	The lawmakers can't speak and agree.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0153par0340	We're all hands-on friends.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0154par0342	Dear friends, when disaster strikes, there is no micronationalism in Turkey; we are all hands, and we are all Malatians. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I have stated from the bench that the CHP has proposed that the region be declared a disaster zone. There's no such thing as the district of disaster in our law, there's no effect on general life, and there's a region that's been exposed to disaster.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0155par0346	Listen, listen.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0154par0347	They're very different friends. We've decided to make an effective decision in general life, but we can't make a decision because there's no housing in disaster-infested areas, it's a landslide area.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0156par0348	Oh, yeah!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0154par0349	In a different sense, it's a land that won't be inhabited, it won't be inhabited.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0156par0351	Here, here, look, I'll give you the law, the law.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0154par0352	Therefore, it is wrong to give your proposal in the form of a disaster zone. I have expressed it.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0157par0354	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0156par0355	Congressman, look, I'll give you the law, the law, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0158par0356	Congressmans, lawmakers who have come to vote without a vote are shouting and disrupting the House's initiative. (CHP and GOOD PARTY) I say it for each group, for each group, for each group, for the friends in each group. I'm paying attention, see, the people who left after the vote are coming at the exact time of the vote, screaming at the last five minutes before the vote, I'll tell you. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Here you are, Mr. Akif Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0159par0360	Thank you, Mr. President. The Law, referred to in the area of disaster, is the region that is exposed to the disaster of Article 2 of Law 7269, no pun intended, and it means helping our citizens who have been damaged in the earthquake, the mobilisation of all the resources of the state. On this occasion, I would also like to say that a building collapsed in Istanbul, and TOKI immediately went there, and destroyed all the other buildings around that building, and built new buildings, and did good works; and the same is now done in Elazıg. Well, do we have to have an earthquake to tear down risky structures and replace it with a new one, a solid building, or do we have to suffer? WHY doesn't TOKI act for risky structures in Istanbul and implement a demolition and reconstruction program for them? Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0160par0367	I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Congressmans, since there's been a disagreement between the Clerk members, we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes for an electronic vote.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0161par0371	Let the people see, who says yes, who says no, who says no, not to make speeches like that.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0162par0372	Let Elazig see Malatya.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0160par0374	The motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0161par0376	We're not going to set up a research commission for the earthquake, and we're going to set it up for what? There's an animal research commission, no earthquake research commission!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0160par0377	Dear MPs, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 7/2/2019, I propose that the main amendment to the fight against trafficking (2/1705) be brought directly to the agenda under Article 37 of the Interior Charter. Adıyaman MP Abdurrahman Tutdere will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tutdere.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0163par0389	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. In 2017, this parliament was offered a bag of laws by the government, which threatened tobacco producers in various parts of Turkey, especially Adıyaman, with the 20th joke added to the article of the Anti-Trafficking Act, without a license from the Tobacco and Alcohol Market Foundation, selling tobacco, supplying tobacco, supplying people with possession, for up to three to six years in prison, and that proposal was passed with ruling votes. From the day this proposal was passed to date, this concern continued on the back of the tobacco manufacturer. The implementation of the law has been postponed twice, and the last term has been delayed by the law to take effect on July 2, 2020. Dear friends, valued MPs, tobacco is a fact of Turkey. Just as the government's wrong practices in agricultural policy brought other agricultural products to an end, the wrong practices regarding tobacco have left the tobacco manufacturer dying today. Other than tobacco, tobacco produced under the contract and contracts, Turkey is assessed on both sides -- traditionally producing, marketing, consumption, single-handedly produced tobacco. Precious lawmakers face the threat of extinction today, especially in the traditional sense, produced by hundreds of thousands of people in various provinces of Malatya, Batman, Diyarbakır and Turkey. Today, tobacco is the only source of livelihood for hundreds of thousands of people throughout Turkey, and if this law is passed on July 2nd, it will be destroyed. You all know very well that tobacco is the allowance of Mehmetchik, the dowry of young girls, the scholarship of students at the university, the breath of everyone who produces it in Adıyaman, and in all the areas produced. If we don't turn a blind eye to this law, if we don't change that law, we're all going to have a big earthquake together on the next one, especially on the 2nd of July. Today we're discussing the earthquake as a natural disaster, and on July 2nd, we're going to experience a 9-strength earthquake when this law comes into effect. How? Hundreds of thousands of tobacco manufacturers will be court-martialed as suspects, police stations. So we call upon all of you, all of you, to come together, and let us take possession of this ancient tobacco, which is the bread of hundreds of thousands of people. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, every term -- especially when I address the ruling lawmakers -- you always say "local" and you say "national" and you try to explain all your policies to the public with your native and national identity. Here's the tobacco I've shown you, the native and national product that's been growing in this land for a thousand years. This product has been made a fugitive by this law. This product smells like Anatolian. This product smells like country land, land where we've given thousands of martyrs for it. You've committed the greatest betrayal of this country by bringing this to prison for three years. Come, let us all abandon this practice when the road is near; let us all make way for the farmer's bread, and let tobacco be free in Turkey. Today you import tobacco from outside with zero customs, paying millions of dollars for foreign tobacco. You pay for tobacco produced by the American, Greek manufacturer; you bring three years in prison for tobacco brought by Adıyaman, Malatian, Batman, Hatay, manufacturer; what kind of conscience is that? I didn't mean to...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0164par0397	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0163par0398	Dear MPs, I speak to all of you on your conscience, to all groups: Come, take hold of this tobacco, which is the harvest of this land, the bread of hundreds of thousands of people, and support our motion. With our motion, we eliminate the three-year prison sentence added to this Anti-Trafficking Law for domestic tobacco in 2017, and together we remove obstacles to the bread of hundreds of thousands of people. I need backup from all of you. The entire Adıyaman tobacconist has his eye on you, in this Parliament. Let's all take care of the people's bread as representatives of the nation, and make this offer legal here today. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0165par0403	Mr. President, we're requesting a roll call.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit02spe0166par0404	We've got a roll call. Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Sarıaslan, Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Sancar, Mr. Şevkin, Mr. Karabiyik, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Bicer Karaca, Mr. Şahin, Mr. Sertell, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Hancıoğlu, Mr. Şekerözer. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit03spe0166par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The meeting on request was not enough before the vote of the motion to be taken directly into consideration under Article 37 of the Civil Code. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I now submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I'm gonna take a five-minute recess since our members of the group are doing an evaluation on the law we're meeting with.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0166par0001	I now open the Fifth Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda with the proposals of the Law and other tasks from the Commissions. We will resume talks with İstanbul MP Mustafa Demir and 70 MPs in the 1st place on the Geographic Information Systems of some Laws Proposal and Publicity, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. In the 50th Union, dated 30/1/2020, the first article on the first chapter of Law Proposal number 161 was adopted according to Article 91 of the Civil Charter, which was considered the main law, and was kept in the motion of Article 8 of Article 8. There are four motions on the 8th article. I'm going to process these motions together in the same way. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the framework Article 8 of the current Law Proposal 161 be removed from the proposal text and that other substances be identified accordingly. Muhammad Emin Akbaşoğlu Şahin Tin Mehmet Kabbat The signatures of the other motion are: Erdal Aydemir Murat Çepni Zerpil Kemalbay Pek Göpeğü The signatures of the other motion are: Ayhan Erel Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Feridun Bahshi İbrahim Halil Oral Hasan Subaş The signatures of the other motion are: Transport Karasu Ednan Arslan Inspiration Özcan Aygun Orhan Sumer Ali Mahir Achieves Does the commission agree with the same proposals? Mr. President, we're leaving this to appreciation. I'm reading the reason for the first one of the same motions: The motion aims to remove from the proposal text the clause that has changed Article 9 of Building Law 3194. The first word on the same proposals is from Izmir MP Murat Çepni. Here you go, Mr. Chepni.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0167par0040	Thank you, Mayor. The General Assembly and our dear people... Yes, zoning planning by the President of the Privatisation Administration extends the state-owned institutions and organizations' opinion period from 15 days to 30 days, but that is a provision that is subject to positive opinion for those who have not expressed their opinion in 30 days. This item must be withdrawn because the process we are in is a process where more ideas and ideas behind closed doors, not by official correspondence, but rather, the idea of scientists, academics, universities, trade organisations, and people who are directly involved in this process should be taken away. So, the process of getting ideas here needs to be made more widely, diversified. Yeah, this stuff needs to back off, that's the expectation. Yesterday 19 people were hit by police violence in Ankara and were taken into custody in reverse handcuffs. In Ankara, representatives of the institution and citizens who met in front of the General Directorate of KESK Branches platform, Medical Chamber, TMMOB and Free Accountant Financial Advisors met in front of the General Directorate of Kızılay in Ankara wanted to make a statement about the corruption involving the KESKGAZ, Kızaj and Ensar Foundation, and they did the same thing yesterday, wherever corruption, theft, persecution is happening, if there is a reaction to it. However, after the attack, our friends and KESK Ankara Branches platform spokesman Ismet Baran said: "As additional taxes are collected from the poor and labourers under the name of the irresponsible tax tax collectors, tax evasion or tax evasion -- yes, this is a new word that AKP put into literature in the AKP (AKP) years. The Red Moon has been transformed into an institution where one man's regime corrupts it, emptys it out. The public has been subject to all institutions. He has called on the Ministry of Treasury and Finance, saying that the tax that has been smuggled through Kızılay should be paid back in punishment, such as this one, to be announced, to be tax audited, to be deposed of the Kızılay Governing Body, to open an investigation into high-paying executives. In addition, again, it has asked that the Ensar Foundation be removed from its public-use foundation status and that all protocols signed by the Ministry of National Education be cancelled by this foundation. Yes, we see here once again that this Foundation, which, by its existence, is a public attack on the public, has also signed a series of protocols with the Ministry of National Education, which the AKP has developed to call a violent and religious generation, but we see that this Foundation, which has become the center of any kind of public enemy, has become the center of harmful activities to the public, is a public benefit foundation. Yes, we live in a geography in the earthquake belt, where we lose tens of thousands of people in a row, and then tens of thousands of people have to be from their homeland. So, what are we talking about today? Today we're talking about siphoning earthquake taxes, money, to deal with the earthquake's consequences. We know that in the press release yesterday, or in the process, all the questions asked about it, including social media, have been punished, and we ask again from here: where was the 70 billion dollars collected for the earthquake siphoned, who stole it? We'll keep asking that question. It's not enough. We're asking who's being hunted down for an earthquake rally. You know -- for example, for Istanbul -- there were tens of thousands of concentration sites set up, but after a while, we learned that they were being pursued by construction companies again. It's not enough; it's not enough that the runt project, such as Canal Istanbul, is again power in the face of earthquake risk warnings expressed by scientists, and we're going to do whatever you say. It's saying that we're going to do it, and we're arguing that it makes it a beka problem. It's not enough; we're seeing how a corrupt institution that's been raised by sexual assault on dozens of children has become a fundamental institution of the state. Yes, there's a trio here, a public enemy trio.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0168par0047	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0167par0048	One is the government's public service, the Reday, the construction company, the gas company run by the grandkids, and the other is a criminal foundation for sexually assaulting dozens of children. This painting is a picture of the 17-year-old AKP. And when we add the military-industrial industry called the complex, the war barons who can't survive without a war, here's the AKP table and here's the painting called beka. That's exactly the kind of policy that people who have nothing to worry about but filling their own pockets sell to the public as national policy. It's a decay. In the face of this decay, we call upon our people, our workers, not fate, but fate, not the result of the earthquake, just as the workers' murders are not fate. They're murder, and in the face of it, all the working class, the workers, our oppressed peoples need to raise the fight. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0169par0052	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0170par0053	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0169par0056	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement to the AK PARTY Group about the statement of the KK PARTY, which has not really reflected the truth in any way and has nothing to do with the content of the subject. In the end, the Red Moon is a precious institution that has a long history and a future that represents the cleanest values of the nation, where our entire nation cares for it with great precision. I would very much like to remind you all that the allegations and comments that have been made about our institution must be evaluated with this respect, and that the statement of the Girl about the matter that has just been made, I would also like to inform you that the donation revenues of her daughter are two separate categories. Compromises and unconditional donations are being sent to them by our nation. Most of the income of the girl is made up of donations, one by one. In part of the donations, the donor can make a conditional donation when making a donation. He also made a conditional donation to Redea, and Rediay fulfilled the condition of the donation. Kızılay accepts donors except those who are involved in crimes committed as crimes against humanity, or other companies, and does not question the intentions of donors. The company in question is a regular donor of the Red. He also makes all of his contributions to the families of the martyrs, to the poor students, through the Red Sea. In addition, since the company's donations to the Red Sea were lower than 5 percent of that year's tax returns, there was no reduction in the government's tax rate. As a result, that's the explanation for the Red. It's not appropriate and it's not right for anyone to bring up certain events from there by acting out a number of isolated events. In that sense, I would like to inform you that we must use a more careful language and reject all claims. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0171par0062	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0172par0063	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0171par0064	Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0172par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, for the record, yes, Redbeard is a truly valuable and important institution, without question. And in order for that value and its importance to be maintained, some things need to be taken care of. We've said this before, for the record, again, that the person in charge of the girl used the phrase: "Tax evasion and tax evasion." I mean, it's immoral that a person in charge of the girl is showing tax evasion or tax evasion as a moral, innocent thing. That's exactly what we're saying. And please, let the government not continue to defend this man on this matter. Because by defending this man, you are not increasing the value and importance of the Red, but you are reducing the value and importance of that institution as a result of a person using this expression. So it's not ethical for this man to carry out this mission, so let's make it very clear to the record. It's going to do a lot more damage, and I want to make it very clear. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0173par0068	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0174par0069	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0173par0070	Mr. President, thank you very much. I'd like to make it clear to the record that in terms of the institutional identity of the girl and the donations made there, you have to consider the metaphor, the framework in its context. It's not right to approach the Red with an abuse from here, in an attempt to discredit the Red, to intercept the donations. I'd like to express that I've invited everyone to make a special emphasis on this and stand up to abuse. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0175par0073	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0176par0074	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0175par0076	Mr. President, this is a subject Turkey has been sensitive about. While the president of the Red Sea said that what the grandkids were trying to do was not to pay taxes, and there are no five percent limit on donations to the Redsara, Ensara found no doubt in the public conscience of what they were trying to do with the higher five percent of the donation. We're going to give you the money that this company has earned in order to be converted into real estate investment partnerships, to be tax-free as a real estate investment partnership, and, of course, that part of it is subject to taxes. The fact that these transactions can be done after its writing, we can't -- I'm telling you -- by you -- by tax evasion -- by paying taxes -- by the honest taxpayers, by the righteous financiers, by the honest investors -- can't, by the gas-sellers -- can't, because you can't get rid of it, because you can't get it directly from the company. No. To wear down the Red... there are 70 times the income increase between Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Bülli Yıldırım... that you introduced to the General Assembly of the Red... in 2015. Is there a 70-fold increase in activity in the field? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me, I'll complete it.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0176par0079	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0175par0080	We've had 70 times more revenues, 70 times more donations. Does every poor family now eat redwood once a week? Is that a thing? No. There's no more rubber-pilled children left in his foot. Is he dressing the children of all poor families? No. There's no Red Moon activity in the earthquake. Where do you have it? There's boat rentals, yacht rentals, rentals, chartering a plane, sponsoring all the supporting events in Antalya. To come out here and defend this disgrace, to mock the minds of the House. Everybody get your positions straight. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0177par0084	Dear Oluç...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0178par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. I mean, I really reject some concepts, so I made a promise. One, there is no abuse involved in this discussion. If we're going to talk about abuse, the head of the Red is the one who does all sorts of abuse, first of all. Whoever's behind it, of course, must come out. We are not saying that he is alone. He is the molar, but he is the chief of all these acts. That's the first one. Don't let the Redbeard be blocked. No, that's not what we're saying. There is no one who advocates the obstruction of donations to the Red Sea. Kızılay is not that kind of institution, but now, because he says he's the head of the Red House, it's because he's talking about smuggling taxes and avoiding taxes, it's as if he's become an institution that's being run to provide tax exemption to certain companies. I mean, it's really immoral, it's not gonna happen. Look at this chain: CENTGAZ, Kızılay, Ensar, a foundation in the U.S.A., and from there, nowhere to be found.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0179par0090	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0178par0091	I'm picking it up, sir. I mean, there's this incredible Ponzi scheme, no other name for it. What in God's name are you defending the head of this Red? If you're defending him, if you're standing behind him, then you're saying that you're the ruling Justice and Development Party, that you're smuggling taxes and avoiding taxes. If not, either remove or resign, brother! Say, don't stand behind him. Judgement must be brought into effect. It's not defensible.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0180par0093	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0181par0094	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0180par0096	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the beginning of my words, I said that we should all use a more careful language in the institutional sense. In some cases, I have stated that a language should not be used to remove the identity of institutions in a number of different interpretations, to harm them, to undermine our own values; one. At this point, Kızılay brings help to the world, and the last thing he's done is to bring help to the world, and the last thing he's done is 2,500 tents to the earthquake site, over 15,000 blankets, 220,000 packs of food, 6 mobiles and field kitchens, each with a capacity of five thousand people, to Elaziğ and Malatya. The Red Moon is in all the oppressed and the victim geography all over the world. Kızılay is an institution of Turkey. Thus, an approach that would wear off the Red Sea is not right.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0182par0099	How's that?
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0183par0100	If you care about Red, let them resign. It's that simple.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0182par0101	You're really wearing out the Red.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0183par0102	Let them resign, and trust in Red will increase.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0184par0103	Gentlemen, the congressman will speak. Anthalya MP Hasan Subaş wants to talk about the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Subas.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0185par0110	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I've been promised to talk to you about the Law Proposal of 161 rows. I would like to briefly read the 8th article given to me in return for my original assignment: zoning plan carried out by the President of the Privatisation Administration is intended to increase the opinion period of public institutions and organisations from 15 days to 30 days and to be considered a positive opinion if the opinion is not reported during that period. Why is it considered a positive opinion? Vague. Why did 15 days in the old law go up to a moon? It's a meaningless substance. On behalf of my good party, I propose that this item be removed. The use of a substance and positive vote, which means nothing, can also be a subject of abuse, and can also block the way to study the subject, so it must be removed. Last week, in my speech, I stressed that the law was unnecessary, that the necessary measures for the earthquake should be taken without delay, because there are risks of losing hundreds of thousands of our citizens in possible earthquakes. So I would consider it a shame for this Parliament to discuss such laws, especially after such an earthquake, such as the 8th article, which we demand to withdraw, but since we have begun to meet, dear MPs, I would like to remind you of the general reason of this law in short notes. Look, I'm reading the following phrases for general reasons: the cities are constantly changing and are shaped according to the needs of societies. Therefore, a sustainable city must also take the focus of man. So it has to be habitable. Think of a reason that contains these phrases: there is no substance in it to create neither human or habitable cities. Again, I read another sentence: "At the same time, in order for society to live in healthier environments/structures, there must be regular and controlled structures. " You've made seven pardons, and after seven pardons, it's really a joke to talk about controlled, orderly, healthy construction. Obstruction of illegal construction in every area and deterrence of punishment is also the basis of the law. After seven pardons, you want to avoid them with deterrent punishments, and then when you lose the municipalities, you take the powers out of your hands, you hand them over to TOKI, but if you give deterrent punishments and not do so, you bring criminal action, which is not believable. Look, I'm reading a sentence again: the purpose is to prevent construction of recursive scaffoldings to disrupt the natural structure of the spring. Now, it's like we're being ridiculed.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0186par0116	Here you go, Mr. Subas.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0185par0117	In the 19th article, the removal of the piers is on the agenda, and you ignore the law of the coast with the 20th article. By ignoring Article 43 of the Constitution, you are replacing the 20th article in this law, despite the annulment of the Constitution, and the Constitutional Court has suggested that the principles of the Law shall no longer be violated concerning you, and the Constitutional Court has declared that there is no further violation of Article 2 of the Article 2 of the Constitution. Really, you're not afraid to violate a lot of Constitutional clauses with every bag of legislation, but as the Constitutional Court's decision states, you are now ignoring the principles of the state of law.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0186par0119	Here, wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0185par0120	With an earthquake master's plan, you need to act quickly with the understanding of the right experts, without wasting any time, this urban transformation -- the only useful ingredient -- without saying "steal," without saying "bed." I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0186par0123	Mersin MP Ali Mahir Aşar wants to talk about the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Successor.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0187par0126	I salute the General Assembly. Yesterday we lost eight lives and soldiers in Idlib. I pray for God's mercy, my condolences to their families, to our nation. Again, on Friday (January 24th), Elazig was a difficult day for Malatya. We lost 41 citizens in the earthquake. I ask God's mercy to our citizens, my condolences to the region and to my country. Yeah, there's another bag of laws today; we're talking about manufacturing. We had an earthquake ten days ago, but nothing about an earthquake. We can't see anything in this bag of earthquake safety laws; there's no earthquake, I'm afraid. I'm very curious that the AKP Group doesn't go out on the street, on the market, but so far -- we've been in this Parliament for over a half a month -- and a citizen comes along, and you make a great law for us. Did he really say, "God bless you"? He didn't tell us. There are no laws that are essential to solving the problems of this country. We're kind of playing law here. Yes, as for the earthquake, hours after the earthquake, we were in Elazig, Malatiah. The painting we saw was really bad. We're not afraid of earthquakes, we're not ashamed of disaster, we're a great country. Indeed, hours after the earthquake, Turkey was united; our municipalities, our associations, our citizens were pouring in help. However, when we visit villages around Malatya, Elazig, there is a painting that I am ashamed of: 90 percent of these villages are still made of bricks; they have no foundation, no walls, no columns, no roofs, many of them. Sadly, the mother and her six - year - old child, who died in Doğanyol, fell under such a house of bricks. Yeah, we can't take precautions, we never, never learn from the earthquake. We don't learn from the earthquake, and we don't listen to scientists in any way. Look, Professor Naci Görür, who knows the area, who has given his life to Earth science, has reported that there will be an earthquake in Turkey months ago." he said. Did you take precautions, did you listen, did Redbear take precautions? He didn't. What was Redbear doing? Reday was probably busy laundering the Ensar Foundation's black money. Yeah, well, unfortunately, we're not a country that imitates earthquakes and disasters. I want to give an example from Elazıb: Look, the fortress of Harput did not see a two, eight hundred years old fortress, or earthquakes, nor was it still there in its glory; it did not play a stone, nor did it crack a wall. Why? Because it was based on civilization, on honesty, on labor, on humanity, but when we came to the headquarters, the Blue Lake, Askent and Wish Apartments were destroyed. We saw these three apartments fall down while the building next to it stood upright. They were based on zoning pardons, corruption, rant, in a sense, neglect. My dear friends, you have granted a zoning pardon. Look, you got an application online, and unfortunately, you collected the money without going through the buildings. There's no zoning pardon for a building that's built anywhere in the world, and then you do that, and then you say, "Why are these buildings being destroyed?" Yes, the zoning pardon has never been applied as we requested. You've granted pardons to millions of buildings, apartments. I'm wondering if you've ever launched an investigation into any city that's given this location? You didn't answer. Yes, in fact, one of them had made this speech very clear, and said: "We have betrayed Istanbul, and he has not betrayed Istanbul alone; he has betrayed Elazığ, and he has betrayed Malatya, and he has betrayed Mersin, and he has betrayed İzmir. In Istanbul, we are now 2% behind all the cities of the world. Yes, he was betrayed, I'm afraid. Again, if there is an earthquake in Istanbul, I can't imagine Istanbul, and if there is an earthquake in the metropolitan area, I can't imagine the state of the metropolis.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0188par0137	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0187par0138	Look, the same scientist, Naci Görşer: we expect an earthquake in Istanbul within ten years. I wonder how many lessons you've learned. I agree with the subject of betrayal, but remember that even though betrayal is sometimes pleasing to the eye, the betrayer is never forgiven, never forgotten. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0189par0142	Now I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are accepted. The 8th article was thus removed from the proposal text. In order not to cause any confusion, talks will continue from existing material numbers. During the writing of the law, item numbers will be identified by our presidency. There are three motions on the 9th article, and I will process the motions according to the order of violation. Here, read this: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 9 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws with the number 161 geographical Information Systems that are being discussed in the following way. The 18th Article of the Law 9-3194 was added to the following joke after the 21st joke. "Due to the fact that zoning practices made under this clause have been cancelled by the final court resolutions, the decision on the plot's zoning plan to match the areas assigned to public and public services, or that the rights of the party have been assigned by the apportioned and registered by the rights holders, and that they have been assigned a proper place in the field of administration and that they can't be returned to pre-instegration parcels, due to similar legal or practical impossibility, and that they can't be returned to the original parcels prior to implementation, in the first place of the court's rights holders, or the rights of the court's rights share of the case has been paid in order to approve. In case there is no agreement, a new law on zoning number 3194 is 18 to meet the requirements of the court's decision before the recycled process is carried out. The application of matter is performed. Transport Karasu Ednan Arslan Ahmet Kaya Gökan Zeybek Vecdi Gündü Orhan Sumer Ayhan Powder Inspiration Özcan Aygun Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. It's Libzon MP Ahmet Kaya who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0190par0161	I salute our General Assembly, and ask all our martyrs for mercy from God, and for our nation's condolences. Dear lawmakers, we're discussing a law proposal to make arrangements in the Building Law, but there's nothing in it that can help our people and the victims of zoning peace. Why not? How long are we going to ignore and ignore the sacrifices created by zoning peace, the people whose homes were destroyed on their property? I want to draw your attention to the destruction of our teakkara, Longgrey, and our pedestrians, who have caused great harm to our people, and who have saved nature. If the goal is to protect nature, we'll be the first in the fight, everyone knows that. Dear lawmakers, crosswalking is one of the ancient cultures of our Black Sea region. From the end of spring, our pedestrians begin to take their animals to the plateaus and stay here until the end of the summer. Article 20 of Mera Law 4342, which is in effect, says there are no homes, stables, and so on. Put your hand on your conscience and think: You are a crossbow, and you will be on foot for five or six months, but you and your cattle have no place to stay. What do you do? You make a safe place for your animals and yourselves, don't you? That's what our crossbows did. Some have been renovated from the ancestor, from the grandfather's old homes. And then what happened? And they came to the gates of these men in the morning, and in the morning, and in the TOMA, and in the machines, and in the midst of them; and they brought down their houses upon them, and they were persecuted. Of course not the plateaus are occupied; it is our primary duty to protect them, to move them into the future, but not to be victimised by our people, who make pedestrians, who produce butter and cheese, who provide livestock for their livelihood. Let the pedestrians be shown in areas outside the pasture and meadow area. In exchange for the cost, and in a specific model, let it be possible to build a wooden or stone house. Remove fences, bring order to our plateaus, a rule. We're drafting a law proposal to solve the Yayla home problem, hopefully with all the parties involved, we'll solve this problem. Dear lawmakers, one important issue is destruction in the neighborhoods of our Tekkara district. Some comment on the matter from the place where they sit without any research, and can describe these people whose homes have been destroyed by the illegal, who say, "Frencher," who call them "the natural killer." These people are being told things they don't deserve, and there are great injustices being done. How do we know that? We went with our congressman friends to the village of Çaykara, where we looked into the matter. We have found that the public perception does not reflect the truth, that destruction has nothing to do with protecting nature, that it has nothing to do with correcting Longgöl's image. We've seen a very sloppy and random work that has been decided over the old maps, and the destructions have been greatly wronged. We talked to our people in Demirli neighborhood, in Kuruköpurü, in Yaylaön, and in Köseli, whose homes were destroyed and suffered great sacrifices. We've seen that these people who have been identified as invaders are not invaders, that their homes are destroyed, not in the treasury, but in their own property. We've seen that these people accused of slaughtering nature are too determined to protect their conscious, natural habitats like their eyes to cut down a tree. Like every citizen living in the Republic of Turkey, they wanted to use the constitutional rights of housing and housing, and they wanted to repair their centuries-old homes, and they said, "You haven't touched them." The family is crowded, they need a house. They said, "No buying, you can't do it." Take into account our needs. Make a proper, realistic, practical zoning plan. They asked you to do it, and you didn't do it. So, what are these people supposed to do? They're not ants so they can live in the ground. Friends of the AK PARTY, today, you are responsible for the worst of the sacrifices that took place in Tyakara, in Longgöl, and in our plateaus, because you have not planned to build in Longgöl in 18 years. People, you didn't even warn them when they were building, you even encouraged them by saying, "Do it, no one will wash it." You collected millions from the community and gave them a building registration document. You have taken no measures to provide housing for the people living around here. And then you took all the blame on these people, and you took their babies from their crib, and you brutally destroyed their homes and their dreams.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0191par0168	Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0190par0169	And most painfully, you didn't ask, "Where will you and your children live this winter in the apocalypse?" In Çaykara, in Longgöl, you destroyed their homes; in Düzköy, in Bridge, in Shalpazari, in Maçka, in Sürmene, in the bow, they were not invaders, they were not terrorists, but you did this to these people, and you did this to them. Come, let us all stop this persecution together, and take no more of the people's affluence and curse. I say we all resolve these sacrifices together and bring peace to our Teakara, our Longgrey, and our plateaus. I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0192par0173	Mr. President, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit04spe0193par0174	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0193par0001	I now open the Sixth Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 9 of the Law Proposal No. 161, the decision was not enough in the vote given by Tripoli MP Ahmet Kaya and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. We continue the talks of Law Proposal No. 161. The commission is in place. I'm reading another motion on Article 9: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The first joke in Article 9 of the Law Proposal on Changes in Some Laws and the meeting of Geographic Information Systems (Secretary Information Systems) has been included in the first joke of the Law Proposal. Ayhan Erel Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Feridun Bahshi İbrahim Halil Oral Imam Hussein Filiz Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Gaziantep MP Imam Hussein Flitz wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Flitz.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0194par0019	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion given by our well-being group on the 9th article of Law Proposal No. 161. I salute the General Assembly. A new joke has been added to the 18th article of Law 3194 to come after the 21st joke. In this joke, the right to approve the plans for the parcels of authority, which cannot be returned to the root parcels for various reasons due to the fact that the development practices under Article 18 have been cancelled due to a fixed court decision, is primarily paid on the basis of the transfer of the agreement, provided the rights holders' rights are granted a place in the field of execution, or if there is no agreement, the rights owner's partnership share in the root parcel is cut off after the application has been cut off. Under Article 18 of the Building Law, the owners may object to the distribution table, which has been announced for 30 days by the municipality or by the governor's office in the areas of the practice. The owner who has received a response to his objection is suing the administration court for the annulment of the transaction. In recent years, administrative courts have been reluctant to decide whether or not to stop the prosecution in cases against public administration, but are taking the case into consideration. Thus, the trial lasts two or three years and even longer if it is brought to the upper court. As a result, the decision cannot be made, and the owner of the property is victimised, due to the removal, construction or commitment of the owner of the plaintiff's property, even if the verdict is in favour of the owner of the property. While this additional joke may attempt to compensate for the injury, the loss of income and gain due to the failure of the administration to use its move in the process of the court is not recommended, however, to eliminate this loss. Also, shortening the judicial process is important for preventing victims. I think it might be a solution if such matters were added to the immediate process of judgment. Dear MPs, I ask God's mercy to 41 of our citizens who died last week in an earthquake that left deep wounds in Elazig and Malatya, and to our wounded citizens with urgent healings. Their pain is our pain. The Turkish nation has shown once again what unity and unity are all about in this disaster. Dear lawmakers, almost everything about the earthquake disaster has been discussed, scientific opinions have been spoken, and many of our fellow lawmakers have expressed their views on the matter, so I won't say much, but I won't be able to talk about some things. As far as science and technology are concerned, when it is as clear as day what an earthquake is and what is not, let's not touch the effort by breaking up happy homes at the age that God has made lawful for a professor of Star Technical University, but let's not touch the effort. It's truly exemplary to make a statement that he should respond to this share, and also the silence of the Dijanet. The earthquake is really a test, but it's a test of science, technology and engineering; it's also a test of honesty for engineering practices, and we can continue as a test of the welfare of our people. Dear lawmakers, when earthquakes are minimal in Japan, it is the result of science and engineering and honesty and integrity. In our case, if we had given enough attention to education, science, technology; if we had done our jobs seriously and properly; if the fault line hadn't been built and the zoning plans had been made; if the earthquake gathering areas hadn't been destroyed as Rant areas; if the ground meat had not been done, without earthquake analysis, someone would have earned money.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0195par0026	Here you go, Mr. Flitz.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0194par0027	...unless poor and qualityless materials were used in the constructions and stolen from materials, especially if the income levels of our citizens could be raised and the income of our citizens, especially if they could be transformed by the fact that the people who suffered the most damage from the earthquake were small-income citizens in the poverty of life; if they had not been created in our country, instead of crazy projects such as Canal Istanbul, instead of the people's well-being, would have been a disaster, and the citizens' income levels could be raised, and the conditions of human life would have been raised; if they could also be transformed in our people's incomes and economic levels; in our social structures; in short case, there would be earthquakes would be a disaster in our country, and I say, a disaster, a disaster, and I salute of our citizens.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0195par0029	I now submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the terms of the 9th article of Law Proposal No. 161, which is currently in session. Erdal Aydemir Merkel Danış Beştaş Abdullah Koç Ridvan Turan Kemal Ülbül Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Sepil Kemalbay Pekbaşü Murat Çepni Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. It's Siirt MP Coral Danış Beştaş who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0196par0044	Mr. President, I have made a pledge, yes, on the 9th Amendment to the Geographic Information Systems, and on the 9th Amendment of the Law Proposal. But I'm more interested in what this law brings, is there really anything new? I'm going to briefly evaluate them in general. So, once we look at the overall proposal, it's also a zoning issue, of course, because developmental arrangements, urban transformation projects, giant skyscrapers rising from all over the cities, an infinite construction agenda, I think, is an issue that the AKP government has not dropped from the agenda during this time. Yes, an endless construction agenda. So, what's going on? One by one, with bankrupt construction companies, they were signed at a time when they were empty, gaudy, mirrored, mirrored, all cities alike, and each place was transformed into a TOKI region, a republic, and historical sites were destroyed for the runt, and Istanbul, Ankara, and Ankara's silhouette were changed, and the signature continued. The right to housing of the person guaranteed by the Constitution has evolved through the AKP. The right of residence has become someone's right to plant a skyscraper. I'll give you an example: According to the end of 2016 data, 117 Τ of the 121 skyscrapers in Istanbul belong to the AKP administration. The mountains and hills were flattened as if there were not a single area of the people; power, full speed, towers everywhere, and new buildings began to build day and night. So the owner's right of residence was destroyed in the hands of the scouts. As people were being evicted from their homes under the name of urban transformation, they were being sent to newly formed, unidentified neighborhoods, toki homes, while the fabric of the city was sadly turned into concrete in the hands of these rants. What's the right to housing? Indeed, it is the obligation of people to live there with TOKI, with skyscrapers, of course not. The right to housing is actually an independent right of property in international human rights law, which includes the right to reside, illegal housing, occupation, and the right to use it as a slum; the right to housing is established today under the name of the right to a dwelling that is suitable for living within the law. Here, not only did urban transformation violate the right of citizens to decent housing or housing, but beyond that, the right to choose one's own life in his own way, in his own way, with the practice of living and social economic relations that he wanted. During his time in power, the AKP government -- please listen to this part a little more carefully -- issued the Law on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster Risk, which, in fact, opened all the country's lands in a row with no rules or conditions, due to the danger of earthquakes, quickly after the Van earthquake. Again, the AKP has created its own new hub. However, planning and practices did not work that way; rather than a planning process that put human and human life into its basic goal, Genghis Holding and its likes were a process of destruction. So new buildings and people's human rights to live in healthy, safe housing have been taken away and continued to be taken away. The cities were thus exposed to a distorted urbanization process with uninhabited, unregistered, unregistered buildings. This brought with it infrastructure and transportation problems, and the quality of life in the cities fell. Look, the pain of the hand earthquake is still so fresh and alive. Even though they wanted to turn this earthquake into AKP ads, the facts couldn't be hidden, citizens died under rotten buildings. Unlicensed construction, new buildings that can't withstand earthquakes, people all over the country can't sleep at home as if we're not living in an earthquake country. But, anyway, we have hundreds, thousands of skyscrapers according to the AKP, because they don't save on dignity, they live in palaces. Yes, it is vital that the immediate prevention of this building craziness, which is not really the focus of the public, should be avoided immediately.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0197par0048	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0196par0049	Therefore, it is imperative that the work be carried out in order to create human-oriented zoning plans. Dear MPs, I hereby present to the public, the citizens of Turkey, the citizens of Turkey, the rejection and obstruction of our party's support for solidarity after the Elazig earthquake. Another ban has been added on the bans during the AKP period; no talking, no writing, no going to the rally, so no words and verbs, and now no solidarity, dear lawmakers. The people are gathering material among themselves, and the Home Secretary says I'm blocking it. Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) aid has been blocked from Elazig, İzmir (Izmir) and many other provinces. Why? Because the AKP is going to turn the earthquake into advertising, and how much I've helped, what a good power I am, but no, you're a terrible power, you're trying to collect rants over the people's death.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0198par0052	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0199par0053	I now submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions on the 10th article, and I will process them according to the order of violation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the 10th article of the current Law Proposal, 161 rows, be removed from the text of the law proposal. Erdal Aydemir Ömer Faruk Gergerlioğlu Ridvan Turan Murat Çepni Kemal Ülbül Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Abdullah Ram Zerpil Kemalbay Peköpeğü Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. This is Omer Faruk Gergerlioğlu speaking of the motion. Here you go, Mr. Gergerlioglu.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0200par0069	Mr. President, we're talking about zoning, and, as you know, the law that has changed the most in the years of the AK PARTI power is the laws about zoning, because the government likes to do it very much and likes to do it through construction. We've had an earthquake incident, but without hesitation, he brought in a law like this, and incredible offers are being brought in again. You have to tell the truth. In 2001, there was a concentration area of 480 earthquakes, and by the time we arrived in 2016, there were 77 earthquake concentration sites, and it's clear how much of these earthquake sites have been transformed into looting, thalana, cementing, which is undisputable. The 10th article we discussed gives the governors authority. Right now, you know, the governors are working like the boss of power, working like the mayor of power, and we can all guess from here what kind of decision he's going to make about people who aren't his own. Dear friends, we also had a very important international development on our agenda last week, you know, the Trump plan. The AK PARTY officials here talked a lot about the Trump plan, called it in, condemned it, but I don't think they're sincere, they're very insincere, they're very hypocritical. And I can prove it to you. Look, I'm going to give you an example, an anecdote, and an example of my own, to the public here. In 2009, in 2009, I was the head of MaZLUMDER, and in 2009 the Gaza massacre was held. There was a terrible massacre in Gaza, and we, as a association, presented a criminal complaint with our friends -- the 13th article in the Turkish Penal Code, the crimes against humanity, that the citizens of Israel could also be tried -- to the prosecutor. It was a full-blown criminal complaint, and it made a worldwide noise. It was also on the agenda abroad, and the prosecutor asked the Justice Department for permission to open an investigation. If the Justice Department permits, the prosecutor will investigate, and what will happen? If Israeli authorities wanted to come to Turkey, there would be a crisis due to this trial, and they would not be able to enter the country. Similar to this had happened in Europe in countries such as Spain, Belgium, diplomatic crises and an attitude had been put into Israel's policies. You know what? That's why we visited the Minister of Justice as a delegation. In 2009, we went to the office of Mr. Mehmet Ali Şahin. We've made a request from all of Turkey to grant its request to the public. You know what he said to us: "Friends, this matter, this matter that you have brought is very important, and the decision on this matter is beyond me. This decision is the headman's decision, I must ask him, whatever he says it is, he says it is. He says it is, and we wait. Fifteen days, twenty days, one month, one and a half months, two months... by the way, Mr. Erdogan was like, "Fuck Israel in the squares!" It's been two and a half months, and you know what? The Minister of Justice did not allow this investigation to open and thus made it clear that he was insincere. It was very important. Why? Because Israel understood Turkey's position on this issue, and then in 2010, it made the massacre of the Blue Marmara very comfortable. He killed 10 of our citizens in a very comfortable manner and then the trial began. And I've watched the trial very closely, and I've been keeping an eye on the Palestinian issue for years. The trial began in 2012. I've followed every stage of judgment. There was a great incision, a great delay. It went on for years, and it got really cooled, and then, you know, the trial ended with the Turkey-Israeli deal, which ended with a $20 million deal. So Turkey's sovereignty has been violated. The right to sovereignty, which even parliament cannot overpower, was sold by power by the power, by bypassing the judiciary, by power for $20m, with the Turkey-Israeli agreement being held.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0201par0074	Here, wrap it up...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0200par0075	And now they've come out crying crocodile tears, and we're against Trump's plan. Down with Israel and its likes. Dear AK PARTY officials, we also know about your camaraderie, and here, here, look, in public, I have presented these historical facts to everyone. You're insincere. You are a party that is extremely insincere and displaying against Israel, who kills murderers and children. We followed it very closely. He is a nation that kills the faithful hand Hams, on the way to buy bread. It's a state that kills children with its father, and it will continue with your insincere policies. When we get to the truth of the Palestinian issue, the question is, let me tell you in the Trump plan, there are two important issues in Palestine: refugees and the position of Jerusalem. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's nothing serious in the Trump plan about refugees, I've looked into it, nothing serious. There is also a great lie about Jerusalem, and Jerusalem, which is supposed to be the capital of Palestine, is being handed over to Israel -- only to the Palestinians in East Jerusalem. I strongly condemn the policies of power in this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0202par0083	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0203par0084	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0202par0087	Mr. President, thank you. The speaker who just spoke on the stand is actually expressing his own position on intimacy and insincerity. It is necessary to ask the Palestinians how the AK PARTY and its leader were sincere about Palestine, where you should ask Mahmoud Abbas, Ismail Haniye. The whole sentence knows that no one has the right to say a word about this. As the head of the Islamic Co-operation Agency, Mr. President, he had the U.S.A.'s thesis adopted immediately in Istanbul, and after that, in carrying it to the United Nations General Assembly, the fact that Jerusalem is the capital of Palestine, although the United States voted with nine other countries, has approved it in the General Assembly. Thus, the President of the Republic of Turkey is a leader who demonstrates the same attitude as Abdulhamit in Palestine, and the whole world knows it. Thank you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change in Article 10 of the Law Proposal on Changes in Some Laws with the number 161 geographical Information Systems that are being discussed in the following way. "In the second sentence of Article 27-3194 of Article 27, the first sentence of the following joke was added to the article after the second joke, the first sentence of the current third joke, the first sentence of the current joke, the first sentence of the first sentence, in the first sentence, in the first sentence, in the first sentence of the sixth sentence, the order of the state of the current joke, which was replaced in the form of the governorship of the following sentence, and the following sentence was added after the fourth sentence, and the following one added to the article. ▪ If the projects mentioned in this joke are determined or found out that there is an infraction of the governor's approval and the notification of the office or the structure that is contrary to its project, it will be reported to the governor's office immediately. The municipality borders and borders are determined by the city's municipal council's decision and by the city's general Assembly's decision in other areas, at the proposal of the city's municipal council in areas with the municipality border. The village is determined by the municipal council's decision, which is a disaster risk, such as floods, landslides, and rocks falling, as opposed to the top-level plans in the country, as well as areas that are medically and geologically restricted to building, and the main roads and widths of the village; the current map or kadastro paftas -- at the proposal of the municipality's municipal council on the city's border, and elsewhere by the decision of the city's municipal council. "The study, the project, the fee, the tuition, the fee, the return capital fee and any name is not to be taken under the scope of the project's approximation of the country's established area and its borders and the structures that can be done in these areas without a permit. Transport Karasu Ednan Arslan Vecdi Gündüz Ayhan Gunpowder Seyit Grandkid Inspiration Özcan Aygun
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0204par0109	Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. It's Mr. Seyit Grandson of the Army who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Grandson.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0205par0114	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute the General Assembly. In fact, the heart would like to discuss these changes, the issues we discussed today, under the law of local governments, and talk about certain improvements that, with a really comprehensive study, would help solve the problem of local governments and open the way for them to serve better. I have some very valuable deputies here who have been mayor in the past. After all, they know about this process. So it's not about bringing things from the edge of its edges... it's about getting things here... it's about getting them, it's about getting them to solve the problems of the local government today, and it's about getting them to get better service, and it's about getting them to solve their savings. But talk about what? In a moment, we will discuss the legalisation of the palace in Ahlat. The palace is already finished, and we'll be legalizing a finished structure here, perhaps with unnecessary debates, or we'll say, well, let's do the structures on the island side of the parcel. Here, we'll talk about the height, and we'll talk about what's-what's-what's-what's-what's-what's-what's-what's-what's-his-name. Dear friends, look, we've betrayed cities. If we've been told that cities have been betrayed, we need to stop this betrayal and actually make serious decisions about the future. Look, we had an earthquake in Elazig and Malatiah, and we all saw the results there. So shouldn't we learn from them, prepare our cities for the future, and, in common mind, take it out of the suggestion of a political party, not a political claim, but a solution-oriented assessment of our cities? So I went, and went, and went to Elazig and Malatiah. I mean, after we've been hurt, after we've lost our lives, after we've suffered, how to come up with a solution, how to help out, how to help out there, how to help out there, of course, very important, very precious, but there's something we need to do first. I mean, look, there are earlier ones, but we all have memories of what's been going on since '99. We all know how much pain there was, what happened. But under the roof of this House, unfortunately, we can't take a step forward on local government, zoning issues, we can't go a length of barley. Look, we've talked to both the AK PARTI and the vice president of the ISHP, and we've talked to the Vice President, and we've said, "This law should be made with a common mind." We've delivered this call in every area, everywhere, but as usual, I'll do it again, it's true. If I do it, I'll get it through my numerical majority, and you'll have to accept it... lt's not true, my friends. Now, look, how long did this law come to the Commission, how much was discussed in the Commission, and now it's down to the General Assembly? Is it that simple, dear friends? By bringing the future of a city to an end in such a short period of time, we thought, it's true. Can we handle this responsibility by saying, "Do you agree or not?" We can't get up, dear friends. When you pay the price tomorrow, there's no point in blaming or exonerating yourself. Wasted human life, lost human life, human life, and lost cities. Again, I repeat this call: please, if we're going to make a comprehensive law, let's discuss it thoroughly. I just said, look, we have a lot of experienced mayors here among our deputies; we have mayors who have been, who have lived, who have created their experiences; what if we come together in this Parliament and create the future of our cities together and save them.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0206par0122	Pack it up.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0205par0123	Thank you. But as usual, understanding is the same: I know the truth, and I bring it to the assembly, and I give it to the General Assembly. It's not true, my friends. So when you look at it, you're trying to get the powers of the big city downtown, you're trying to somehow get the powers of the big city into the Ministry or into the palace. That's not true, guys. So if you're going to pay for March 31st, you need to see him in public, not here, you need to ask the public. (HPP and GOOD PARTY) The people made their decision on March 31st, June 23rd. If you want a rematch of this decision in the House, that's not true, folks. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0207par0131	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0208par0132	Mr. President, one moment, I'll make a statement.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0207par0133	These are attempts to delay roll call.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0209par0134	There's a motion for roll call before the motion vote.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0208par0135	Sir, I asked for your word, Mr. President. Mr. President, I wanted a promise. I'm in the system, sir, and I have something to say about the speaker's speech.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit05spe0209par0136	Let's meet the request, one minute. Let's finish this, I promise you. Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Karabat, Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Karbiyuk, Mr. Şevkin, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Hancıoğlu, Mr. Bicer Karaca, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Aygun, Mr. Sumer, Mr. Unsal, Mr. Torun, Mr. Bul, Mr. Budak, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Serker. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll get it started. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0209par0001	I now open the Seventh Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The meeting on the 10th article of Law Proposal 161 was not enough before the vote of the motion given by Army MP Seyit Grandun and his friends. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll begin the procedure. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to your votes the motion given by Army MP Seyit Grandson and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm reading another motion on Article 10: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The first joke of the Law Proposal on Changes in Some Laws and the meeting's Geographic Information Systems has been included in the first joke of Article 10 of the Law Offer. We propose and propose that the declaration be changed under the notice. Ayhan Erel Feridun Bahshi İbrahim Halil Oral Dursun Atash Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Adana MP Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Çulhaoğlu.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0210par0023	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI Group on the 10th article of Law Proposal No. 161. I salute your high council. Before I begin my words, I pray for the mercy of five of our heroes who were killed in Syria's Idlib, and three of our civil servants, Cenab, and our veterans, and our nation's heads. Mr. President, with instructions from the court, the proposal was again brought to the Parliamentary General Assembly as a bag of laws without full examination of the Public Works, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission, without the opinions of experts, rooms, troops, NGOs. The governor's examination of projects in Article 27, 3194, dated May 3, 1985, and on Article 3194, has been changed to the statement of the governorship of the authorities in writing. In the second article of our Constitution, Article 127 of the Constitution, the establishment and its duties and powers are regulated by law according to the principle of governance. According to the decree of the EC PARTI, the amendment offer brought by the EC is against our Constitution. It is clear that the hierarchy will be corrupted if it is removed from the spirit of the local government, opposed by the Constitution, instead of by central administration. In this amendment proposal you've brought, other than the municipality and the mujavir areas, the settlements of villages, and even the mehras...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0211par0028	Congressman, just a minute... Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's a very serious buzzing, we can't listen to the Congressman's speeches, dear friends. Let our friends who want to talk go backstage.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0210par0030	...for groceries, grocery stores, barbers, village ovens, village coffee, village restaurants. So, let's do three or four types of projects in the countryside, in the villages, for the housing of citizens, and let our citizens choose one of the approved projects and build them. And increase the amount of state support for our victim citizens. For those of us who have to live in houses of the mill, social housing must be built, and it must be done immediately. Because it's not earthquakes, it's inappropriate buildings, you guys. The countless workers who were shut down during the transition of the EC PARTY cannot boil their pots, pay their rent, read their children, return to their villages to ensure family unity, but you do not rest here either. First, we must make laws that protect our citizens' material, spiritual rights, interests. We must not withhold privileges for Syrian asylum seekers from our own Turkish citizens. Yes, I wish God's mercy to our citizens who died in an earthquake in our provinces of Elazig and Malatya, and to our wounded citizens. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0212par0035	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are four motions on the 11th article, and the first three proposals I'm going to make are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws be removed from the proposal text, with the number 161-line Geographic Information Systems. Transport Karasu Ednan Arslan Inspiration Özcan Aygun Müzeyyen Sevkin Orhan Sumer Vecdi Gündoğdu The signatures of the second motion are: Ayhan Erel Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Feridun Bahshi İbrahim Halil Oral Şenol Sunat The signatures of the other motion are: Erdal Aydemir Kemal Bulbül Ridvan Turan Abdullah Koç Mahmut Celadet Sürpil Kemalbay Pekyöpeğü Does the commission agree with the same proposals? Mr. President, we can't participate. Adana MP Müzeyyen Sevkin wants to talk about the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Sevkin.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0213par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, this draft law was discussed in the Commission fifteen days ago; frankly, I thought that this proposal for the CBS system after the earthquake on January 24th would be withdrawn. It's a huge handicap, my friends, when 41 of our citizens' funerals are there, when they haven't been removed yet, to come and see us in a hurry to talk to CBS about making changes to some laws. In Turkey, where 96% live in an earthquake belt, the issue is far too important to be covered next week, and the issue is too important to be reduced to the height of the building. And last week, it was watered down to the construction of a city parking lot. I'm really condemning this place and protesting with this black ribbon, friends, protesting this law. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yes, dear lawmakers, it is intended to be carried out in Article 3194 under Article 11 when it is necessary to withdraw this proposal, under the supervision of haiz engineers, the projects that require advanced design methods and technologies against the risk of earthquake disaster. This matter directly concerns the right to live, friends, is too important to leave to the unlimited discretion of the Ministry. ▪ What is the meaning of engineering, my friends, of sufficient expertise? Is it intended to transfer randoms to selected individuals or individuals? It has been seen that the arrangements for the individual have been placed within the Building Law. Friends from the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism website, 19 distinguished engineers are authorized to do so. Today, those who will build the building will have to pay the price of 60,000 liras and $100,000 if they take authority from these 19 engineers in Elazığ, or in any earthquake region where we have experienced an earthquake. Well, won't that make the citizen a victim, my friends, to have this elite engineering? What criteria is this based on? I'm still condemning the fact that this is normally a TMMOB case that's being passed from behind. Yes, valued lawmakers are normally licensed to 100,000 to 200,000 buildings in Turkey. This is the number of buildings that 19 people can grow -- with design and control services -- will only be able to complete 30,000, and this is not a random event. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, what needs to be done is that there's a living fault map in Turkey, and it's been on all TVs for days. Everybody's an earthquake expert now. The red zones on the living fault map are where 18 cities are at risk. The eastern Anatolian fault belt and the southeastern Anatolian fault belt and the Izmir region, the fault belt, where the Aegean Region is located, as you know, is where there is a living fault map, where there are active faults, where our 18 boroughs are at risk, where there are more than 80 district centers and 502 villages are at risk, directly affected, directly on the fault line. The areas on these fault lines that affect several city centers must immediately be declared a victim of disaster under the presidential decree and subject to transformation under Law 6306. The fault law must be passed at once, my friends. (HPP) The settlements on these fault lines must be banned and immediately go into urban transformation. TOKI should produce housing for people in these earthquake areas, instead of building houses in high-rent areas, rather than in these earthquake areas, in the 21st century, where the stones are still piled up, where the mud is tied up in the middle, and in the middle, they should build housing for the people living in the village houses, not for the sake of the rant, which I think is the function of TOKIH, which is the function of this country. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yes, valuable lawmakers, with this law proposal, the powers of local governments over the cities are restricted and local governments are disabled. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll be right there, sir.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0214par0073	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0213par0074	Yes, dear lawmakers, you've received seven zoning pardons after the 1999 Marmara earthquake. Every zoning pardon, we'll have the blood of the children who will die from now on, the blood of the people who will die from now on. The mission of this House is not only to convey condolences, my friends. Our job is to make healthy laws. Therefore, you have issued the Law on Building Control 4708. In the Law on Building Control, you have only made way for concrete trusts, as if the control of buildings were sufficient. The building control system, on the other hand, requires inspection of the building builder as well as the floor. Geologically, geotechnically, the parameters need to be determined and the static and concrete calculations should be done in this direction. There must be a geology unit in all municipalities, where there is a geology engineer's employment and that control is provided. In short, the entire zoning law to avoid catastrophic damage...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0214par0076	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0213par0077	Based on the reduction of disaster losses, Act 3194 must be considered as a whole on Building Control Number 4708, Law number 7269, Environmental Law 2872, and Laws on the Transformation of Areas Under Disaster No. 6306. This law must immediately be withdrawn and provided with a method in which all relevant vocational rooms are involved. This zoning proposal must be withdrawn, providing healthy construction areas to protect the public's health and right of housing. I'd like to remind you of that person's pain again. We have to respect the pain of this man who lost his entire family in the earthquake. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0215par0081	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0216par0082	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0215par0085	Thank you. Mr. President, I'd like to make it clear here that the plaintiffs need to make clear which of these laws constitutes a restrictions on local governance.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0217par0087	At least 15 of them.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0215par0088	It's completely irrelevant. At the same time, TOKI is definitely not a rant production centre, it is a social housing centre, it has brought hundreds of thousands of families to a social home. With the latest production of 100,000 dwellings, our citizens are given the opportunity to get housing at a fixed price for 20 years, such as paying rent. We've done these services to our beloved nation so far, and we'll continue to do them. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0218par0091	Tell me about 49 percent! Go tell the poor man!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0219par0092	Mr. Free, come in.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0220par0093	Mr. President, the question is technical, and it's very clear that those who claim to be the ones whose powers of local governments are restricted, should explain it. On behalf of our group, our relevant Commissioner, Mr. Gökan Zeybek of Istanbul will answer this technical question, sir.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0219par0095	Here you are, Mr. Zeybek.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0221par0097	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, now, there are two fundamental provisions of the law, so as we look at the essence of this law, there are two main ideas. One is that there are many references to building plans that give the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism institutional authority. Now, in fact, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has to work on areas that are legally responsible for planning development, areas outside the municipality limits, areas that have been deployed in the village, and areas that have been at risk of disaster, but in recent years, especially over the last year, we see that the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has been implementing, both in part, and in some islands. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The 15th article of the law, in this form, is excluded from the value-raising tax made by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, when it says that the entire value increase tax will be collected by public hands and divided between the relevant institutions if its parcel properties make plans with their personal application. This means that from now on, all change of plans will be made by citizens or interested contractors who will go directly to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. Therefore, the 15th Amendment...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0222par0100	The city can do it, there's nothing in the way.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0223par0101	Mr. Zeybek, go ahead.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0221par0102	Sir, the municipalities have the authority to make plans.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0224par0103	Mr. President, I...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0223par0104	Didn't they talk about it on the commission?
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0225par0105	There's been a lot of talk.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0226par0106	It's been discussed, sir, we're fulfilling the ruling party's request for an answer, sir.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0223par0107	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0227par0108	Mr. President, our question was very clear, but it didn't answer that question.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0228par0109	How else do you want it?
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0227par0110	Our lawmaker Mustafa Demir, our Istanbul MP, will make a technical statement on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0229par0112	Didn't this really talk about the Commission, guys?
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0227par0113	They have been spoken of, and they still claim [to be believers].
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0230par0114	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0231par0115	It's been discussed, it's been discussed in every detail.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0232par0116	Yeah, but you said it wasn't.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0230par0117	For the first time in Congress...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0233par0118	Sir, he's making a claim as a myth. Because of March 31st, the authorities were stripped of their authority. It is said that this is not true. Under what clause has the authority of the municipalities been removed, with what clause, in accordance with what application, and in accordance with what arrangement?
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0230par0119	The 2nd and 18th article...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0234par0120	Mr. Free, come in.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0230par0122	Mr. President, for the first time, Congress is witnessing the opposition party's QA at the request of the ruling party, and we are very pleased with that. Article 2 and Article 18 are clearly restricting the powers of the local authorities...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0235par0123	What powers?
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0236par0124	What powers?
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0230par0125	If the 15th article is to be changed, if you come to the Ministry for free, if you do it in the municipality, you will pay an allowance.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0235par0126	What if the city does?
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0230par0127	We're saying the same thing.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0235par0128	How?
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0237par0129	Don't make promises. Congressman...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0235par0131	You say the ministry, but you don't prove the restrictions on the municipality, you always say the ministry.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0237par0132	Congressman...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0238par0133	We can talk too, Mr. President, please let him learn to listen.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0239par0134	Now, Mr. President, I'm reading from Article 2 of Article 6 of this law...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0238par0135	You talk all the time, so you don't know how to listen.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0239par0136	Mr. President, the Subsequent Article 775, dated 2-20/7/1966, has been added to the following. EK MADDE 6- Under this Law, the areas established by the Ministry of Public Works and Housing were now under the authority of the municipality. Tell me if you're buying or not.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0240par0138	We're not taking it.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0241par0139	Read the second joke!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0239par0140	Whether you're buying or not, explain this.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0241par0141	Read the second joke!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0242par0142	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0243par0143	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0244par0144	Mr. President, the President of the Commission is there to speak...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0242par0145	Mr. President, let me tell you, we didn't just ask a question out of the blue. The CHP Vice-President has just expressed that by speaking from the bench, this arrangement was brought up in a rematch, being linked to the March 31st elections. And I asked him, "Well, that's not true." And I asked him, "What's the matter with which the municipalities have been stripped of their authority?" And I asked him to answer that question. The reason we're asking questions is because of the speech of the CHP rat. İstanbul MP Mustafa Demir Bey, who also owns the Law Proposal, will make a technical statement. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0244par0147	Mr. President, is the Commissioner there an audience or an audience or what? That's what these questions are about, the Commissioner is dealing with these questions.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0245par0148	I'll tell you something, Tanal, your silence was very meaningful today, if you could just keep it that way...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0244par0149	Mr. Group Vice President Akbasoglu is disrupting the silence.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0245par0150	Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0246par0152	Yes, Mr. President, now my friends are reading the first joke of Article 2 and I'm reading the second joke. The second joke is: The municipality is in charge of practices in areas that are either established or created by the Law of the Substance 775, after the Act No. 3414, dated 2/3/1988 and entered into force. The main reason we brought this offer is because in 1988 his municipality was in charge. There's confusion in the application, so there are lawsuits against TOKI. In fact, it is a very important law that the two sides - both in the municipalities and in the TOKI - will clarify their own areas and continue the process. Also, my friends just said that the cities used to have powers, and now they're restricted.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0247par0157	Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0246par0158	Now, in order for municipalities to be restricted, you have to say that the municipalities, such as the zoning, are the authorities on these issues, but are now restricted. Secondly, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism or the relevant institutions, which so far have been authorized to plan resension, seems to have never had the ability to plan before, and now it seems to have. There's nothing really, there's no change in that. Only the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, its plan, its project, if it is not destroyed by municipalities, are given this kind of authority. It's as simple as that. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0248par0161	Mr. Free, anything. Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0249par0163	Mr. Akbasoglu has received the aid of Mr. President, Mr. Congressman, of our party's opinion on the same matter, Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0248par0164	Aye. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0250par0167	Thank you, Mr. President. I expressed our views last week on the motion made by the Republican People's Party Group regarding the 2nd article. He may not have been paid enough attention, but I'll repeat it one more time. This clause takes the authority of the municipalities and transfers them to the TOKI. In parallel with this, the 18th article is, in the same way, depriving the municipalities of its authority. I want to open this up a little bit more. The information given regarding the second joke of matter is extremely wrong. I made this statement in the Commission, in the Commission; our friend, Mr. Hamzacebi, a member of the EC PARTY, is right, we can make a correction to his hesitations here. If you look at the commission reports, you'll see our friend's statement. Now, I'm not just going to lean on the testimony of that friend, I'm going to explain the matter technically. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'll clean it up.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0251par0171	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0250par0172	The second joke of the article does not retain the authority of the municipalities. The 3414th Article of Law, which was issued in 1988, and the authority of the Ministry of Development and Housing in the area of the curfews, according to Article 775 earlier, is now used by municipalities. The sentence has been passed on Article 1 of the Article 1, which was issued in 1988; it is now the authority of municipalities according to the Nükondu Law. Later, in 2007, Law 5609 did not actually make an appropriate arrangement by making another arrangement. The Ministry of Orders and Housing of Law No. 775 has been changed to the Chairman of the Public Housing Administration." he said. Well, okay, this isn't working. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0251par0175	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0250par0176	Why isn't it working? Because the authority of the Ministry of Development and Housing is used by municipalities in Article 1 of Law 3414 in the implementation of Substance Law No. 775. These powers are used by the co-ordinating of the city's municipalities in the cities of the capital city. The sentence remains in place. The issue is being brought to justice, and the administrative courts are ruling in favour of TOKI, but the prosecution is disrupting it; it says, "My brother, this is Law Number 3414 which stands in its place." Here the authority belongs to the municipalities, not to the TOKI. Our friends say: "Sir, we have brought this arrangement to resolve the conflict of duty and authority that arises with these judicial decisions. "The decision of the prosecution was in 2011, 2020, nine years ago, and why now? Because the local elections turned out to be against the AK PARTY. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] In my final words, Mr. President, the second joke of this clause may seem to be protecting the authority of the municipalities. It's never relevant. The second joke says: "The authorities in the slum prevention area declared by the authorities in which the authorities are declared by the authorities are used by the municipalities in which they will be declared after this, while municipalities also use the powers in the curfew prevention areas declared by Law 3414. " The second joke of the article does not maintain the authority of municipalities, the authority of municipalities is taken as it is with the first joke, an illusion is created with the second joke, and the sentence of Article 3414, which states that authority is transferred to municipalities, is lifted from effect; this is the case. I'm presenting it to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0252par0180	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0253par0181	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0252par0182	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0253par0184	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to point out that after Mr. Special promised to make a technical statement to Mr. Gökan Zeybek, I also agreed that the matter would be cleared up by Mustafa Bey, who has an offer of law. Then he felt the need to make a second technical statement. However, a moment ago, our esteemed bidder, our esteemed congressman, has made the matter clear and clear. Article 2 has been approved and concluded by the General Assembly's votes. As a result, municipalities are under no jurisdiction. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0254par0188	Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0255par0189	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0254par0190	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0255par0192	Mr. President, I'd like to say in the face -- a power poisoning, a majority of us are spoiled. That's not gonna happen. You can't have 24 TVs, 36 newspapers, with the confidence of creating a hegemonia, telling the truth every day of what isn't real, in the House. Here's what we're dealing with, the preacher said: you're limiting the powers of the city, and we're going to attach this to this. Let them tell you what clause... (Akhan Zeybek) has expressed on the part of the 15th article of income split, and on the 2nd and 18th articles, we also read in the text of the law that the matter previously under the authority of the municipality has been taken away from the municipality and handed over to the head of the Housing Administration in a clear manner. The 18th is also granted a previous authority in the municipality. There's no explanation for this, they've agreed on the commission, there's been a statement here...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0254par0195	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0255par0196	The explanation of Mr. Hamzacebi is clear that there will be no doubt. On top of that, we walk, two... and I find the technical explanation of the Justice and Development Party very valuable because that's the law, the Legislative Assembly, it's going to be talking, but it doesn't exist anymore. Mr. Akbasoglu will take the stand, and he will say, "It certainly didn't happen, it turned out it didn't happen, something was done." There's no such thing, it's not News News A; you're going to tell it, people are going to think it's real! (CHP, HDP and GOOD PARTY) The facts are clear. He's clearly saying, if there's a technical explanation; if there's no technical explanation, then political illusion on technical explanation and I'll be the last to speak, and I'll tell the truth about the lie... we won't surrender to it. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0256par0199	Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0257par0200	I'd appreciate a chance to get back on the agenda.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0256par0201	Sure, we'll get to the bottom of it.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0257par0202	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0256par0204	Thank you, Mr. President. I am returning to him all these claimless claims of Mr. Private. Every illusion, every sass, every word you use belongs to you!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0258par0206	I said in a nail, you put it in a fingernail.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0256par0207	With no fingernails, no nails, no illusions, no truth, no lies of your own, I'm afraid.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0259par0208	Why is he looking at us? Let him look at someone else.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0260par0209	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0256par0210	I'll take your word for it. I leave you to your lies, and this is the place of the People's TV, not the council. As a result, I invite you to the truth. Please don't drown in your own lies. And don't fool our people with lies. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0261par0213	You're lying, you're lying!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0256par0214	I returned his words to him.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0261par0215	Mr. President, Mr. President, why are you talking to us? Let him read the 15th article (c). He can't understand what he's reading. For God's sake!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0262par0216	Mr. Tanal, wait a minute... Mr. Free, come in.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0263par0219	Mr. President, when you said that I was a spoiled majority, you heard the effort to put myself under nails.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0264par0220	So I put it in the nail.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0263par0221	I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Akbasoglu, your profile is that if your president wakes up tomorrow morning, it's 2 times 2 is 5. If he says, "Reis fixed the historical error in the Kerrat table."
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0264par0223	It's only for you! It's only for you!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0263par0224	I have nothing more to say, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0264par0226	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0265par0227	What should we do now? You two...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0264par0228	Mr. President, let's...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0265par0229	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0264par0231	Look, as a result, Mr. Special has brought this discussion to this point.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0265par0232	I get it, but let's wrap this up.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0264par0233	We're tidying up, we're tidying up. It's like...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0266par0234	You asked us a question.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0264par0235	We're tidying up. And we're doing it on the truth. It can only belong to you, to your own person and to your approach.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0266par0237	You're asking us questions.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0264par0238	You tell lies made up by your own President-in-Chief! As a result...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0266par0240	What the hell, sir? What the hell!
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0264par0241	As a result... [[CHP rows knocking on rows, banging on rows, banging on noise]] As a result... as a result, he...
tbmm-2020-02-04sit06spe0267par0244	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit07spe0267par0001	I now open the Eighth Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal No. 161. The commission is in place. There were talks about the same proposals on Article 11 of the same nature. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit07spe0268par0010	Mr. President, thank you. We've just seen some unpleasant statements made in exchange as the proposal of the law is being discussed here. Basically, the reason all political parties exist in parliament, and I'm sure its sincere purpose is to discuss, negotiate, and conclude these laws in a way that will benefit the nation. Our positions are different, of course, our political approaches are different, but even if the pronunciations are different about the benefit of the nation, I think the basic sensitivity and approach are common. It's important to be able to speak the laws on the basis of reason to ensure the interests of the nation, but as these negotiations are being held, at times, when the language begins to go out of their minds, and it's slowly towards the mutual polemics, and from there, to the accusations, an atmosphere is created that's been driven away from its true purpose. I'm sure the MPs, the deputies from all the parties, when they look at it with a cool head, see that such an environment is of no use to the ultimate purpose. We've just seen that there's a lot of tension going on here, and there's a lot of mutual expression going on, and there's a lot of unwanted words being used, and we've seen assessments of groups, about the presidents. It's important to avoid them. We think it's especially important for all of us to use a more careful and caring language about the presidents because their political significance symbolizes parties. In this context, there has been a delicate situation for Mr. Kilicdaroglu -- no doubt we would not want -- within the framework of this controversial language. I think it's important for all of us, at least in the next talks, to use a careful and caring language about all of the Presidents, to consider our own honor and sensitivity, to consider the matter with a mind that is also possible for us to maintain and maintain the honors of political parties and institutions that we are competing for. I hope this minor will continue the parliamentary negotiations. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit07spe0269par0017	Thank you. Mr. Özgür, I thank you, Mr. Musavat. Thank you, Mr. Erkan. Thank you, Mr. Akbasoglu. Thank you. Ankara MP Senol Sunat has asked for a statement about the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Sunat.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit07spe0270par0025	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the good party. I salute the High Council. Yes, we have buried eight heroic sons who died today in Idlib. May God have mercy on all of them. Thanks to the head of the holy Turkish nation, may God grant their families patience, and to those who have been injured, I wish them a speedy recovery. Yes, Turkey had an earthquake last week based on Elazig, Pointy-based earthquakes; we lost 41 citizens, hundreds of citizens were injured. I ask God's mercy for those who have died, and for those who have been wounded, and for the speedy healing. The problems of our citizens, whose homes have been destroyed or badly damaged, who have to live in tents, are obvious, lawmakers. Mr. President, I'd like you to stop humming.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit07spe0271par0030	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, our congressman's speech is not fully understood due to hissing, so I invite you to remain silent.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit07spe0270par0031	Members of parliament, the duty of those who run the state does not end in publishing the message of condolences. Today, this Parliament should discuss what happened in Idlib, and the measures needed to be taken for earthquakes. Believe me, I'm bleeding inside. Our general motion to discuss the incident was rejected, and the meeting about the earthquake was rejected. We're not going to talk about this, but what are we going to talk about today? When are we gonna talk? Where does this mentality lead us? Please, lawmakers, these are issues concerning the fate of the Turkish nation and affecting its destiny. Why are we here? We have to question him. AS A GOOD PARTY, we never, ever made politics through suffering and disaster, and at times like this, we said the spirit of unity and solidarity should be brought forward, and we're working for it, but that doesn't mean that we're blind and healthy. What happened in Idlib, what happened? The alliances with Russia... who doesn't comply with the decisions made in Sochi? Have we been cheated again, lawmakers? Those who emigrated from Idlib have reached the border with Turkey, and what measures will be taken? Have we returned to the United States, to Russia, or have we been deceived by both? We should question them as lawmakers. We have to stop using foreign policy as an instrument of domestic policy. Get back from the mistakes and mistakes you've made and let's get together in common mind and meet. Turkey is shaking like a cradle, Congressman. The President asks if there is any chance of stopping the depression. We don't have a chance to stop the earthquake, and we have a chance to prevent damage, loss of life, minimal damage. All experts are constantly shouting that a major earthquake is expected in Istanbul. You're asking me to take a crazy project called "Canal Istanbul" and stamp it and make it. Shame, sin, shame on this country. Of course, we follow the developments, the actions that have been done and should have been done, the consequences of the collection of earthquake taxes, the lack of control over zoning pardons. Of course, in our country in the earthquake belt, we're going to answer for the 18-year-old ruling party's insensitivity in this area, and we're going to catch up with the responsible. Dear lawmakers, when it comes to development, it's hard not to mention the zoning date of the AK PARTI administration. Your file's really big, you've got a lot of priors. Imagine, how many times has the Building Law changed in 18 years of power? The project of buildings that require advanced design methods and technologies against the risk of disaster, the 11th article of this law proposal, says it is under the supervision of competent engineers under the regulation issued by the Ministry.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit07spe0272par0036	Here you go, Congressman, wrap it up.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit07spe0270par0037	It's the 11th article, which I'm familiar with, and it's my specialty, and it's from my experience, it's called by a fellow engineer. But there are universities, there are Engineers and Architects, give them the authority if you're sincere. Yes, we're tired of these rants, we're tired of the looting order, we're tired of the personal laws, we're tired of the public blaspheming of the Turkish nation, we're tired of your insufferable contractors, we're tired of your palaces with earthquake taxes; we're tired of being Turks, we're sick of your bureaucrats who are so sick of being Turkish, they're sick of being Turkish, they're sick of being Turkish, they're even of being Turkish, they're even bothered by Turkish. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit07spe0273par0041	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit07spe0270par0042	Men of power, we will no longer allow politics to be made, so that the debt of three allies may be wiped out, and the five contractors may add money to their money; and that the rant may carry out the plundering order. People are having trouble making ends meet, there's a crisis in the kitchen. Food prices are in the middle, natural gas increases, electricity hikes are in the air. Please try to get Turkey to win, so that five allies can win. Think of the people and think of the right, not the Rant. I salute you all.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit07spe0274par0046	Mr. Oluç, I thank you, too. So when the debates get a little tense, I get very negative, too, because it's an activity that we're very proud of, and we're very fond of, the work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I respect each and every one of you. Debates sometimes affect us, too. So -- I didn't notice Akbasoglu either -- and I thank you in that way. Anthalya MP Kemal Bulbül has asked for a statement about the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit07spe0275par0050	Mr. President, we're talking about the valuable MPs, the earthquake, the people. I'm going to give you a very delicate example now, but first, we see very clearly what the proposed law is actually serving with the arguments that were made earlier. Turkey itself is facing a moral, economic, humane, conscientious, political crisis, but it does not solve any problems by pretending to take measures against the earthquake. Look, I want to explain to you what Turkey has been talking about for twenty-seven years today with one more zizele. In the 1550s, Pir Sultan Abdal said that when he was executed in Mal Square near Madimak, at a distance of 500 meters [500 m], his grandfather Sultan Abdal should be destroyed with the throne of the state/Tari, who had been in the city of Istanbul, because the Turkmen peasant was poor, hungry, and the Turkmen peasant needed bread. That's where Pir Sultan Abdal was executed. About five centuries after Pir Sultan Abdal, I was President of the United States, and all my friends, my friends, my relatives, were massacred on an eight-hour live broadcast, and another one of them was pardoned. Motive, age, motive, health. Well, is there any explanation for the fact that this person was chosen and pardoned by political intent, while there are now 1,356 patients in prisons throughout Turkey and some 457 have been fatal? There isn't. In the history of Islam, they call the man "nemrut," the man who slaughtered people in the history of Islam. The case of the Nemrods and the pharaohs is otherwise seen. There's no need for you to be Hizir Paşa. The age of Hizir Pashas is over, the age of Ottoman sheikhism is over. As Marx put it, how the dialectics of Hegel were on his head, and I took it, and I planted it on its feet. He said, "You have planted the republic on its head, and all the blood is walking into his brain, and various parts of the people face each other, and there is an embarrassing picture. Berkin is being held responsible for his own massacre in the police report yesterday. He's 65 years old, two children disabled, but Elif Short mother is currently under arrest. He has two disabled children, Mr. Bostanci, please take care of this truth. Elif Short, a mother with two disabled children in Elbia, is under arrest on false grounds. And where is Gulistan Doku? This is all part of the truth. See, not as old and sick, but as a political message, and with this political message, the oppressed were asked to be given a message to the innocent, and a newspaper in Sivas put it on the front page. See what it says, Fuzuli: when you take a small profession, look at the denominator; when you think about it, experience the yeast when it comes to your head. Look at the yeast. Would you look over there? There's a serious crisis of conscience at stake here. There should be a court of law on this matter. Pir Sultan Abdal said this court five hundred years ago. This court must be the court of truth and justice. This case has to be retrialed. Jafar Erçakmak was searched for 18 years, and died 18 meters from Madımak Hotel. Eighteen years of searching and not found. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing up, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit07spe0276par0057	Here you go.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit07spe0275par0058	On July 2, 1993, the Madimak massacre itself was the first massacre, the statute of limitations on Madimak killers on March 13, 2012, and the decision of the Prime Minister of the period of this period. And yet, we have a duty to defend right, truth, justice. It's 2:00 on Saturday. 95 branches of the Pir Sultan Abdal Cultural Association, which I am also chairman of, will be in front of the Ministry of Justice in Ankara. I invite those who believe in justice, equality, freedom to join in. Dear friends, as Pir Sultan Abdal put it, this chapter will return and justice and justice will be served. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'll complete.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit07spe0277par0063	Because of Pir Sultan Abdal, come in.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit07spe0275par0064	Thank you, thank you. For this reason Pir Sultan Abdal had said five hundred years earlier: "I am Moses, you are Pharaoh/Iqram-free devil- lain/ Third death this traitor/ Pir Sultan will die, he will live, he will live, he said it five hundred years ago. And again, as Pir Sultan, again the right, the right, the right, the justice, the returners, the music players, the sayings again, the grass, my progeny, sir, the Asim Bezirci, I say: All Turkey must have this right, this right, this decision must be reviewed. This should be implemented for those who are currently under arrest in Turkey, who are sick, elderly and under treatment. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit07spe0278par0068	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 161-line Law Proposal of the current 161 rows shall be replaced by the "Procession" of the "existently required" following the declaration of "property-promoted" in the sentence added after the 1st sentence of Article No.1 and Article 3194 of Law (2). Muhammad Emin Akbaşoğlu Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bekir Kuğur Erim Zeynep Gül Yilmaz İsmail Emrah Karayel Cemil Yaman Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we're leaving this to appreciation. I'm reading the reason for the motion: The proposal aims to strengthen the emphasis that the projects of property-based structures should be done with adequate expertise by haz-engineers and ensure the integrity of meaning. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 11th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2020-02-04sit08spe0278par0001	I now open the Ninth Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal No. 161. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Proposal 66. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will no longer be available, it is Wednesday (February 5th 2020) at 14 p.m. to discuss the main number-one presidential counter and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, with law proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
